ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u1	158. Government bill amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (the Health Services Act), as amended (the House Press 614/ - third reading I beg the Minister of Health and the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Antonín. The motion to reject and the amendments are listed in the press 614/2, which was delivered on 10 February. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 614/3. I will ask the Minister if he wants to speak before the debate is opened. Not interested. In that case, I am opening up a debate. I beg Mr Heger, who is the first to sign up for the debate. After him, Mr. Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madame Members, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, my speech on the subject of a new hope for health management using a register which we can call a big brother will exceptionally be somewhat longer. It is because the ambitious plan of the Ministry of Health to innovate the system of payment for diagnosis, so-called. DRG, has aroused the hope that one of the biggest problems of our health system - creating a price list for health service providers - will gradually disappear within four to five years. That's what the Ministry of Health promised. On this promise, however, there was a proposal that a gigantic database should be created for price formation, in which health data of all citizens of the Czech Republic should be concentrated. At first, a lot of people, including me, didn't notice. However, as the debate gradually developed, this database became the target of greater and greater criticism. [[9.30 hours]] The reason why resistance to the large database was so gradual is why the project has been hiding quite successfully under the head of national health registers, which have been in the law for a long time and whose usefulness has been obscured by the fact that the database of paid health services will contain not only a much larger amount of data, but, on the other hand, their use is far less than what the idea and practical practice with medical registers is called clinical. In the project, or if you want the explanatory memorandum to the government proposal amendment, there is no evidence of how the giant collection of personal data will be used and what algorithms will be associated with other data sources. Only the objectives of the proposal are defined there. The aim is to create good pricing and quality measurement. However, the procedures to be followed are not specified. For this reason, after numerous consultations and even after discussions on the Health Committee, I decided to perform today at the third reading and to warn you about this proposed plan. Before you decide how to vote on the amendment, I would like to try to describe the benefits and shortcomings of the proposal from the point of view of the conflict of two constitutional principles, namely the rights of citizens to the best possible health care and the right to the protection of personal data. [[It's busy in the hall.]] What is the content of the amendment to the Health Services Act has already been discussed here. At present, the obligation of health insurance companies to provide the Ministry of Health with the data required from their databases for payment of health services and for evaluation of availability and efficiency is also the quality of services. That's the diction of the current law. The obligation was introduced by, by the way, a transparent amendment, which was successfully enforced by the Minister of Health. A new one, I say. Earlier, the Ministry had to negotiate the possibility of receiving data from insurance companies before the amendment. Today, after passing a transparent amendment, it's just a duty. In addition to this data, however, the Ministry is attempting to significantly extend this authorisation in the draft amendment to the Health Services Act and by introducing a national register of paid health services it intends to take over from insurance companies all personal health data of patients with their birth numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u3	Sorry, co-workers, co-workers. Left side of the hall, please remain calm. Thank you. And a group to the right, Mr. Janulík, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The intention, with its scope, is completely out of line with the long-term effort to gradually expand existing national health registers, which have been introduced in particular to monitor medically demanding conditions. Such clinical registers are primarily used to obtain feedback about the results of care and it is a system that is completely unique. In the current proposal, the Ministry of Health is seeking legislative cultivation of these clinical registries and this must be clearly praised. For clinical registries, the use of the birth number is practically necessary so that the results of care over a longer period of time and in different health establishments can be assigned to the individual patient and then to an anonymous set to monitor the development of quality parameters of care provision. This fulfills the first constitutional principle I mentioned, the right of a citizen to the highest quality of health care. It is also necessary to add that clinical registers have proven their safety and usefulness for the development and optimisation of medical procedures - but again, I am talking about clinical registers. On the contrary, the proposed register of health services, covered by health services, differs significantly from them both in their objective and scope. This brings us to the second constitutional principle that is in conflict with the first one, and that is the protection of personal data. Emphasis on the protection of personal data gradually made the work of health professionals difficult. In the last decade, this has been very tangible in the operation of health care facilities, perhaps even 20 years of development has taken place. Access to specific medical documentation is now subject to strict rules and must sometimes also be subject to patient consent. The same applies to the sharing of documentation between various healthcare establishments, which is unfortunately still imperfect in our country, and there is a great deal of effort to make. Medics simply have to respect things that result from constitutional order. The exchange of information about a common patient is very beneficial for health care professionals, leading to higher patient safety and better follow-up and effectiveness of treatment. However, according to the law, it is necessary to respect the patient's opposition to other doctors' access to his documentation. It is true that if some data can be used without the patient's consent, it must be enshrined directly in the law. Such a measure is, for example, an obligation for a physician to inform the physician about the treatment of the patient, which is required by law. At the same time, the law also allows health insurance companies to use data of a particular patient for their own use. In other words, it could be summed up: health professionals must obey, and the law is very hard on them. What is the possible starting point for the two constitutional principles mentioned? Perfect health and protection of personal data. In the conflict of these principles, our legislation is strict with regard to the conflict at the level of provision of care, as I have already said, against health professionals. On the contrary, in the relationship between the state and the protection of personal data, it is rather the other way around. The State has defined the necessary situations for itself where the patient's documentation can be used without his permission. These exceptions certainly include the collection of data to monitor the occurrence of infectious diseases, monitoring of adverse events following administration of drugs, but also the possibility of the Ministry to use those clinical registers to monitor the results of care. It can be assumed that personal data breaches in these cases are positively balanced by the benefit to the better quality and safety of care provided from the point of view of the patient. However, the attempt to create a register of health services is already out of line with this balance of constitutional principles, and the question arises as to whether its existence is really needed. The possibility of working with individual non-anonymised data is not supported by any deeper arguments in the explanatory memorandum proposed by the proposed amendment, which would demonstrate the need to duplicate virtually the same databases of health insurance companies. As has already been said in earlier discussions in the Chamber of Deputies, and here I will quote my colleague Opálka, we can imagine that we could only have one central health insurance company. [[9.40 hours]] Hypothetically, you can imagine that. In such a situation, it would be clearly valid or sufficient to carry out all analyses only in one database of this insurance undertaking. It can therefore be assumed that the first pilot study on the necessity of using personal data that should be carried out by the Institute for Health Information and Statistics could only take place with the help of a selected statistically represented sample of VZP patients or other health insurance companies, it does not matter which data with birth numbers would be processed according to the requirements of the Institute and the Institute would then continue its further analyses only over data without direct identification of the patient and connect them with economic and other data from other sources. And by the way, as the main reason for creating a total database of paid health services, as I mentioned earlier, a correction of the incorrect price setting of individual DRG diagnostic groups, the diagnosis payment system, was mentioned. Two data sources are needed for this setup. The first source is the data from health insurance companies, which are reported individually by hospitals, always for one patient in one hospital procedure. Therefore, at this stage there is absolutely no need to connect several visits to different providers and everything takes place one time, for one patient, for one provider. In other words, once again - no birth number is needed in this case. The second source of data will be for the IHIS, and the Institute for Health Information and Statistics communicated this several times, the second source will be the set of economic data of individual hospitals that the Institute prepares, and these data will represent the average cost of one DRG group in a defined period, with the number of relevant patients with the same diagnostic group responding to insurance data from the same hospital over the same period. Thus, there is no need for an individual birth number for further processing. Even if there had to be a birth number for analysis for the pairing of hospital and insurance data, it would not be legal, even with the Ministry's amendment proposal that we have before us. Even today or according to the proposal, the hospital may not provide any birth numbers for the relevant patients for the Ministry or for the register of paid services. It follows from these arguments that it would be better if the proposed amendments were approved only in the scope of the modification of clinical registries and not for the newly introduced giant database of health services. From the previous statements of the Ministry of Health, it is clear that within two years the law will need to be amended further, and therefore nothing would prevent the IHIS from working intensively in the meantime on data from health insurance companies and hospitals that it prepares, and gradually put forward more concrete arguments about the need to work with its own, insurance companies transferred individual data and with the entire population of patients, or for example. only with the data of patients who give their consent. By the way, we also need to work on this, because if we are ever to complete the electronic disease exchange system, we will need the patient's consent and it would be nice to have it available, for example. for the purposes of the Register of Medicinal Products, which is preparing for an electronic recipe and would also have a major impact on the quality of the care provided and to prevent various drug incompatibilitys. I've come to a conclusion. Again, I'm sorry it was so long. Finally, I just want to mention a certain political scope of the whole problem with the register of paid services. The efforts of the state to own and process personal data are growing. We're talking about a sports registry, a possible increased opening of a register of arms certificates, a bank account register, and we've already approved an electronic record of sales on this land, which is actually also one giant mega-registration. It is therefore necessary to keep in mind that our constitution for the use of such registers, which we can really call a great brother, does not prefer, and if so, really only because the suppression of the right to privacy is absolutely necessary and is perfectly documented. I have to say again that if any of the health care workers had a project for any development or scientific agency to create such a register of paid services that would contain ten million data, they would have to have not only general objectives and promises that they would be achieved, but at least a pilot project, at least proof of algorithms such as those data will be processed. And I repeat, none of this was presented except those promises. And the final sentence. It is no wonder that the TOP 09 and the starosta cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u5	Thank you. Mr. Hovorka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I have quite comprehensively explained here why the proposal is prepared poorly, what are the main reasons why this law cannot be adopted, or why it is not possible. why it must be rejected. I will now try briefly to sum up the main reasons. The amendment to the Health Services Act, which is intended to put into operation the national health information system, is clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, with the European Directive No. 95/46/EC also with Act 365/2000 Coll., on Information Systems in Public Administration. The final form of the database created is unknown and therefore it is not possible to assess the protection of individual sensitive data. It is not possible to approve an empty shell and leave it to the Ministry and the Institute for Health Information and Statistics to build and use any database at their discretion and without complying with the rules for public administration information systems. That is why I have tabled a motion to dismiss this law. Firstly, I will mention the constitutionality test and refer to the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, which I quoted here at second reading. The amendment to the Health Services Act, this House press 614, is intended to link all existing health registers with other newly introduced registers and thus enable the collection of sensitive data from health documentation. All information on all citizens of the Czech Republic will be collected in one single place at the Institute for Health Information and Statistics and should be linked to the birth numbers, social history and employment classification of each citizen. The law must clearly specify for which purposes information can be collected and information used and must also contain sufficient safeguards against abuse. However, it is not clear from the law how the adequacy of the data collected will be assessed under European Directive No. Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to their intended purpose. The final form of the database is not clear and it is therefore not possible to assess how the data will be protected. [[9.50 hours]] Czech and European law requires compliance with the principle for any data processing that the purpose of each set-up must be precisely defined. In order to establish the NZIS database in accordance with constitutional law, it is necessary to adopt technical specifications for data protection. Otherwise, the legislator cannot in any way assess whether security is sufficient. The same applies to the assessment of the adequacy of the purpose. The law thus allows the creation of any National Health Information System, any form of it, and therefore its wording is a certain circumvention of the powers of the legislator, i.e. us Members and senators, legislators who are obliged to protect personal data as a fundamental human right to guarantee and regulate. Reason two. The draft law to run the National Health Information System is not prepared in accordance with Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on Information Systems of Public Administration. According to Section 5 of this Act on public administration information systems as a public administration body, the Ministry of Health is obliged to ensure that the links of the information system managed by them to the information systems of another administrator are carried out through a reference interface using data elements declared by the Ministry of Information System on Data Elements. The eligibility of the information system for the implementation of these links shall be demonstrated by an attestation. Thus, the law goes ahead of the steps that should have been taken earlier. The entire preparation of the data structure including the upcoming official agendas had and must be assessed by the Ministry of the Interior. The data on natural persons must be stored in NZIS with anonymous meaningless identifiers, so-called. AIFO, which allows sufficient level of anonymity for the processing of statistical data and, at the same time, in justified cases, allow the basic registers to ask for specific personal data of the person for whom the relevant record is kept. At the same time, citizens must be allowed to learn who has researched information about them and what agenda, which is the basic principle of eGovernment applied by the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. Law No 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration, guarantees that the citizen will learn who and for what purpose needed his data. However, the Ministry of Health did not proceed in a commentary procedure under the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration, which is why the amendment contains birth numbers. A system of data collection to this extent and in this structure could never be passed through a commentary procedure in order to comply with the rules of the Information Systems Act. I'm setting an example for comparison. The Agenda System of the Czech Republic was connected to the information system of the basic registers - hereinafter the information system of the basic registers - in November 2013 on the basis of Act No. 111/2009 Coll., on basic registers, and by March 2014 the data of most insured persons of the Czech Republic were gradually identified and updated. Today, 6 million insured persons are anonymously linked to the General Health Insurance Corporation via the reference interface of the basic registers. VZP is ready to share these data according to the rules in the public administration agendas. In this regime, however, the ÚZIS does not progress. The Ministry of Health in the argument against criticism points to the proven and long-term existence of health registers and the earlier incorporation of NHIS in legislation. Individual separate health registers have actually existed for a long time. The very concept of NZIS was introduced into legislation formally in 2001 as a response to existing registers of public administration. The interconnection of all registers was to take place only after 2011, but then the Constitutional Court intervened and one of the newly proposed registers was abolished. In fact, however, the NZIS database, the resulting form of which is not clear, is to be put into operation and the link of all registers with the birth numbers and medical documentation of all citizens will only occur after the amendment of the law has been approved. The third reason is unanswered questions. I repeatedly asked the Minister several questions at second reading, as well as at the interviews. Although I was given a comprehensive answer, it did not contain specific answers to my questions: Why is it necessary to send all sensitive data about psychological, urological, sexual problems, abortions, simply about everything in the medical documentation to one place and how will these data help to address the quality, availability, safety, optimization of care and network providers? Where is it determined what the status of the technical operator of the system, its employees and the associated protection of sensitive data will be? How will individual sensitive data be particularly legally protected from abuse? How will persons allowing access to registries be required to assess the proportionality of the personal data provided? How will each patient have access to all data to be processed? Why is the health information system not governed by the same strict rules as other basic registers? Why are existing data from health insurance companies not used to manage the economy? Why is all information on health, social and working history to be linked exclusively to birth numbers? Why is it now necessary to quickly and rapidly approve the faulty system proposed in print 614, to connect all databases, and only then to prepare a quality NZIS law? Do you not think that, in the case of NZIS, the exact same regime as for other registers is required under the Public Administration Information System Act and that the agenda and data management must be separated? I have repeatedly asked for a direct answer to all the questions asked and, at the same time, a message about the final form of the database created and who, specifically, works for commercial pharmaceutical research in the UHIS or UHIS. And the fourth reason is doubt about a possible conflict of interest. Today, a large part of the employees of the IBIS are still employed at the IBA Masaryk University. IBA employees, s. r. o., is a commercial company that deals with data extraction and data processing for the pharmaceutical industry, are also employees of IBA Masaryk University. Some work or work for the IHIS. There is a joint workplace of the IBA Masaryk University in Brno. People from these three organizations are sitting in common spaces, working together, using a common computer network, the same phone numbers and computers. It's completely unclear how they're rewarded. Just for comparison, workplace ÚHIS, Nebroufalky, Kamenice, workplace IBA MU, Nebroufalky, Kamenice, Postovská, workplace IBA, s. r. o., Kamenice, Postovská. IBA MU, IBA, s. r. o. and others. These are the main reasons that I have set out to inform you and to give you sufficient background to decide what to do. In any case, I suggest you reject this bill for the above reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u7	I also ask Mr Svoboda, who is the last member of the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to prolong today's debate unnecessarily. Colleague Hovorka has presented a number of reasons for which I have to agree. I have dealt with this problem very much because, on the one hand, I know that we cannot obtain data on health quality in any way other than a complete analysis of all the cases being treated and investigated. These data are extremely important because it will then allow us to finally start comparing not only the price of health and health services, but also its cost-effectiveness, which means where and in which facilities health is financed adequately and where the costs are too high. On the other hand, I consider breaking the personal individual data of patients in the form of a birth number attached to these data to be essential, as a very fundamental breach of citizens' rights when it is done without their consent and when there is no guarantee as to how it will be handled. I've asked that question repeatedly. I didn't get the answer repeatedly to satisfy me. The last discussion I had with Professor Dušek was concluded that all these things will be closed within two or three years and that it will actually go to the issue that eGovernment will have. And that is the problem that finally forced me to say from this place that we cannot support, as an ODS, such a breach of citizens' personal data. We can't support something we don't know how it's gonna work, how it's gonna work. And, above all, we don't even know what the reason for such a large collection of data is. So this is the only thing I want to say on this stage: we cannot support this law because it fundamentally undermines the personal integrity of individuals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u9	Thank you. Two factual points. Or is it proper? [[Interrogate the Vyzulu MPs.]] Proper. Thus, first of all, Mr Brázdil's factual remark, and then, with the proper Member, Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning, when I came to the House, I was warned that no talk here would reverse the vote. Nevertheless, I will be naive and I will ask you to support my proposal in the sense that the medical rescue service will not be abused in the future for examining the dead. Please, it's a technical thing. Consider whether life is more valuable, or whether we will examine a dead person somewhere without providing the necessary pre-hospital emergency care. Well, I'm asking you very much not to be a politician. It's about money. The current authorities don't want to understand this, because for them, the funds spent on some private coroner's service are just extra spending, and that's why they're gonna leave it, or they're gonna leave it to the paramedics. I beg you to support this so that the rescue service is not abused to investigate the dead. I don't mean when we're invited and we're going to a patient who's unconscious, it's a loss of vitality, and then I find out he's dead, so I'll examine him. But if someone dies somewhere at home or in a retirement home, there's no need for an ambulance to do that. Once again, I beg you to think. It's not politics. Life is just more valuable than death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u11	Yes. The MP has taken it Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u13	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace again. I ask you to settle down so that you do not discuss with ministers and other ministers and to hear the last one entered into the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After all, I decided to make a brief speech, because so far, in addition to Mr Brázdil, everything has been said against this amendment. I'd like to support her a little. Not just a little bit, but a whole weight. I'm a little surprised by Professor Heger's opinion. Through the President, I would like to ask him what the practical impact of the current registers is. He answered a little in the end, but I would nevertheless like to show him two publications. That's all I could take. But this is a publication. [[It shows a green and white book.]] That's the practical impact of the cancer registry. This is a book that consists of epidemiological information on all tumors in our Republic in 2008 and 2009. Mr. Docent said that an insurance company could carry out such analyses. Yes, it can. But she didn't, and she doesn't. And I never... I can't believe she ever did that. And this book, wherever I am abroad, anywhere in the world, all the epidemiologists are ripping my hand. It's the last specimen. I can't please... But, of course, it's available to me. The second book of a smaller scale shows only colorectal cancer. [[He's showing a blue book.]] As you well know, in the incidence of intestinal and rectum tumors, we are the first in the world. First, please, in the world! If we didn't have this data, we wouldn't know, first of all. The D.O.D. doesn't know either. And it cannot then support a screening program that was successfully implemented a few years ago. The screening program works. And I believe that many of you over the age of 50, which is a lot of you, are getting a regular, that is, for the second time now, a reminder from the VZP to come to the screening program. So this is a consequence, this is a practical consequence of the fact that registers work. And without the birth numbers, as it has been repeatedly said here that we do not need the birth numbers, without the birth numbers we could not even find out, for example, that intestinal tumors occur more in the Pilsen region. I apologize to the Plzeň Region now, but it can evoke other studies, especially epidemiological studies, which should find out why it's in that particular region. I am a little sorry for the opinion of Mr Hovorka, who says that the proposal is wrong. He knows very well how much Professor Dušek and the Ministry of Health have devoted to this law at all and how carefully they prepared the law, how they discussed with all possible partners, whether it was the Office for Personal Data Protection or not, whether it was legislation across the issue. [[Noise in the hall.]] But in conclusion, I'd like to show you two registers that you'll be very helpful in reducing them to all the paramedics. I talked a little about it last time, and I prepared a cardiology registry and an oncology registry. This is in an enlarged form, of course. [[It's showing a big table.]] But this register has eight pages. You can see for yourself that there are a number of data that health professionals have to fill out. If we approve this amendment, they will only have to do 30 percent of what is mentioned here. We'll save them 70 percent of their jobs. It's something similar with the cancer registry. [[It's showing another table.]] The form isn't that extensive, it only has three pages. But please, if we approve the amendment, we'll save 70 percent of the work for paramedics again. We'll spare the doctors' work, but we'll save the nurses' work, and they'll be able to spend more time with their patients. Otherwise, I think everything's been said enough. And on some of the arguments that have been made here, I really don't think it's worth answering, because you all have common sense, and I believe it's going to end well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u15	Thank you, too. I see two factual points here. First Mr Hovorka and then Mr Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I am just a few comments on what Professor Vyzula has said here, by your means, Mr President. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] No one here is questioning existing medical registers that have existed here for a long time, but there's basically no problem with that. What's the problem is that the current system connects the registers to one central location, actually connects the data from the documentation and the birth numbers. If it is true that this law is to work in eGovernment mode, i.e. by system -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u17	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask you once again to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u18	According to the information system of the public administration, so it simply has to be fundamentally anonymous and it has to be possible for a particular person, i.e. to his birth number, to ask through the registers of the public administration. But it can't be that all the data with the birth number will be entered. This contradicts the principles of eGovernment, which contradicts the principles of public administration information systems. And as far as I know, the Ministry of Health and its registers are not exempt from the information systems of the public administration registry. So this needs to be realized and this is how the Ministry must proceed. It cannot proceed otherwise than under the Public Administration Information System Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u19	Mr. Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to respond to the contribution of the Member and the Chairman of the Health Committee, Vyzula. I very much appreciate the cultivation of the debate and the substance, and I really just wanted to point out that my whole Filipika against this register of paid services only concerns this register. I, on the other hand, tried to commend clinical registers.I know very well from earlier years when I had the opportunity to get to know the registry in depth, a register of cardiosurgery, which is a perfect feedback for what medicine does. It is based on a rather complex methodology, so it cannot be introduced for the whole of medicine, but if we had such perfect feedback for general surgery, except for the only individual surgeon with results and complications, health care would be much better managed than today. And the last thing I wanted to say about it is that, like with the cancer registry, with the cardiac surgery registry, it needs to be inserted into it data that is not reported to health insurance companies. In the cardiothoracic registry, it's the type of data that the patient is coming acutely, if he's coming chronically, if he's obese, as his family history was. The insurance company doesn't have this data, and unfortunately, no one will get rid of the medical personnel, and therefore the registers will always be limited and will never be universal as the register of paid services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u21	Thank you. I do not see any more applications for the debate, which is why I am ending it. Let me ask you about the final words. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I get to that final word and the comments on the amendments that I have prepared, I cannot respond to the debate that I am going to admit was very surprising for me. I, therefore, must respond, through Mr President, first of all, to Mr Heger, because too much time has not passed since the committee hearing, and so I still remember his position on the law, when he praised him that this is a step in the right direction, and when he basically shared with the proposers all the arguments why to put this in place. We suddenly learned today that there was criticism in the media, the law was, I believe, marked as a big brother, and he told us that what he said a few weeks ago on the committee was no longer valid and that he had fundamental reservations about the law. But I understand, and maybe let's face it, it's some kind of political decision by individual political clubs, and I see that it's old here too: it's better to be wrong about the side than to be right about the side. I would also like to respond to one more proposal that he made in his speech that a pilot project should first be made to share data between insurance companies and hospitals. So I would like to remind you here that the pilot project for sharing data from insurance companies and hospitals has already been carried out at the time of the ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's Heger's Heger's ministry's ministry's Dušek's ministry's ministry's minister's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's ministry's office. This will give me, please, a good opinion, perhaps on the amendments that have been made here. I would just like to say that among the amendments that I support, the proposal from the Committee on Health A1 to A3 specifying the arrangements for the execution of autopsies, then Mr Brázdil C1's proposal imposing an obligation to send a copy of the decision on granting health services to the relevant professional chamber as well as the amendments applied by Mr Antonín D1 to D3 specifying the legal definition of the newly established NHIS. Unfortunately, I cannot support Mrs Pastuchová's proposal, which proposes to include two more as national health registers, namely the National Register of Pre-Hospital Sudden Circulation and the National Registry of Hospital Sudden Circulation. The reason, unfortunately, my non-aid is that the proposed registers are, in my opinion, non-systemic in terms of their content and purpose, because they are focused only on the selected area of health services and are in case of a specific problem. Furthermore, I do not support Mr Brázdil C2's proposal, which aims to clarify the provisions governing the so-called 'Brázdil C2'. Involuntary hospitalization. I do not consider the proposed regulation to be conceptual and sufficiently considered, especially as regards their relationship with the international conventions on human rights that we are bound by, and at the same time as I would like to state that the Ministry of Health intends to address this issue in this year's upcoming amendment to the Health Services Act. I also do not support Mr Brázdil C3 and C4's proposals to amend Section 84, which states that the health care provider carries out inspections of the bodies of the deceased when the death occurred during the provision of emergency pre-hospital care. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Health intends to continue to proceed as openly as possible in relation to the national health information system. The NHIS is set up by a supervisory ethics board, which will control all steps in the development of information systems, their security and data analysis. Representatives of health committees of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, experts of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data and eGovernment have already promised participation in this Council. The NHIS control will thus be completely transparent and will not only be a matter of the Ministry of Health. Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your attention and I firmly believe that you will support the Government's bill amending the Act on Health Services in voting, as it is one of the cornerstones of changes in the Czech health sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u23	Thank you, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes the final word. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u24	I would probably give up the final word because most of the facts have fallen here and the various amendments have been summarised by the Minister, so then I would just read you the health committee resolution and propose a voting system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u25	Yes, in that case, I ask you to sit down again, with priority rights the chairman of the TOP 09 club wants to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn against the Minister's way of speaking. We've said here several times that if he wants to define himself against anyone in the House, it's not fair to use the final word, because he doesn't stand a chance of defending himself anymore. It's really not fair. I just have to say that the preparation of any law at the Ministry is one thing, and the other is, in what form and with which approach it comes to the House and how we approve it. What you brought today is not just a big brother, he's a repulsive brother. You really go into the most intimate things of every single person, and you don't even want to leave her alone after she's dead. Don't be mad at me, we won't vote for this law. When you calm down here that data can't get out, it's clear from all over the world that it's not a question of whether they get out, but when they get out and these data will be misused. So I don't consider your final word relevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u27	In that case, I will ask the rapporteur to return to the microphone and propose a voting procedure for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u28	At its 30th meeting of 17 February 2016, the Committee on Health decided to act as a guarantee committee and, after discussing the draft law after second reading, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the draft bill, House press 614, in the following order. First, there will be a vote on the motion to reject the law submitted by Mr Hovorka, then the proposals under points A1 to A3 together with one vote. Proposal B. Proposal C1, proposal C2, proposal C4 - if accepted, is an unvoting proposal C3. Proposal C3 unless proposal C4 is adopted. Proposals D1 to D3 together with one vote and then vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u29	I'll ask if anyone wants to get off with another draft procedure. It is a relatively simple procedure, so I guess there is no need to vote on it unless there are objections. It's not like that. In that case, we will first vote on the motion to reject this law. I'll ask for opinions. The rapporteur? [[Negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has a serial number 192. It's logged in 182, for 38, against 132. This proposal has not been adopted. Please, rapporteur, another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u30	Furthermore, vote on points A1 to A3, which is the conduct of autopsies, which we will vote on together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u31	Opinion? [[The rapporteur recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] Twice positive. I'll check you out. A new registration, please. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees with the proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has a serial number 196. It's registered 175, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u32	In addition to point B of my colleague Pastuchová. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u33	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 197. Registered 177, for 31, against 128. The motion was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u34	In addition, point C1 of my colleague Brázdil on professional organisations. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u35	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion positive.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 198. Registered 177, for 138, against 32. This proposal was adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u36	In addition to point C2 of my colleague Brázdil on hospitalization. I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u37	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 199. It's registered 178, for 64, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u38	In addition, point C4 of my colleague Brázdil was on rescue services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u39	Opinion? [[The rapporteur does not recommend it.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has a serial number of 200. Registered 179, 43, versus 112. The motion was not accepted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u40	Furthermore, point C3, which is an alternative to point C4 of my colleague Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u41	Opinion? [[The rapporteur does not recommend it.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 201. Registered 179, for 40, against 110. The motion was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u42	And then they're points D1 to D3 together. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u43	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion positive.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has order number 202. Registered 179, for 168, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. I believe, Mr rapporteur, that we have voted on all the amendments and all we have left is the vote on the law as a whole. Isn't that right? [[Rapporteur: That's right.]] In that case, I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision, as amended, according to the House's Press 614, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I beg your pardon? [[The rapporteur recommends. The Minister has a positive opinion.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 203. Registered 179, for 140, versus 35. This proposal was adopted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point 158.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-003-158.u44	Good morning, dear colleagues. Before we proceed with the approved program, allow me to load my apologies. For reasons of health today, Mr Kučera apologizes. From today's meeting between 18 and 19 o'clock, Mr Vozka apologizes for reasons of work. In this morning's meeting, Mrs Strnadlová apologizes for health reasons. And from the afternoon meeting, the Minister apologizes - I can't read it, but I suppose the Minister of Health from this afternoon's meeting. So now we're going to continue with the next point, and that's
