ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u1	264. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies I'll allow myself a very short recap. We discussed that point last week on Friday, October 19th. We have therefore terminated it by a minor agreement and added it as a new one because the deadline for further proposals has been announced by this Monday. The Election Commission adopted Resolution No 144. First of all, in this resolution, we note that no nominations were received for the three vacant posts of the members of the Committee of Investigation for Miscompliance on the D47 motorway. We didn't get anything on the committee. Secondly, I can say on this point that we have received the following proposals from Members' clubs for changes within the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, it is one motion for an appeal from the Health Committee of Mr Igor Nykl for the YES movement. Against this, within one club, a new proposal for nomination to this Committee on Health, Mr Miloslav Janulík, a fellow Member. And plus, we have yet to receive one new nomination, and this is Mrs Dana Váhalová, on behalf of social democracy, on the budget committee. May I remind you that social democracy is entitled to this place, virtually. He can cast it. This occurred a year ago when the table was converted after the changes or subsequently after the changes in the Úsvit member club. So that's how much of a recap to this point. Once again, on behalf of the Election Commission, we do not have any proposals for the D47 Commission. Secondly, with one vote, we should decide to withdraw Mr Igor Nykl from the Committee on Health and subsequently by second vote to confirm the nomination proposals: firstly, the membership of Ms Dana Váhalová, social democracy, in the Committee on Budgets and Members Miloslav Janulík, YES 2011, to the Committee on Health. I ask you now, Mr President, to open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I open the debate, I have no written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. A colleague of Birke. It's already on the board. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, allow me to hold you back for a moment with a speech concerning the D47 Committee of Investigation, because not only have my fellow Members from the committee of inquiry asked me to do so, but I myself consider it necessary to speak here and give a position. As you all know, three members of the D47 committee of inquiry recently resigned to their membership, essentially in the formation of the commission of inquiry. I'm glad the House came to my request and quickly set the term of permission. That's where I think the House was acting as responsible as possible, in my opinion. [[12.50 hours]] But I am absolutely, and I am sorry, surprised at the approach of two parliamentary clubs, which now have no representatives for the second time because of their resignation on the committee. As chairman of this commission, I am extremely interested in working, as well as in all the representatives of the parties and of the movement represented in the House. Unfortunately, I must say that the clubs YES and Dawn did not submit any nominations in due time, even for the second time. I think the House deserves an explanation. In the media, it is said that the commission of inquiry is falling apart, that it is not working. It's not true. The Commission has been working regularly since May 2016, and has already requested and studied the comprehensive contractual and background documentation of the Road and Motorway Directorate. We have requested and have already received contracts and documents from the supplier, EUROVIA CS, and thanks to this activity, we can begin witness interviews next week on Tuesday, November 1. Believe me, it's already underway, and on November 1, we're really starting to interrogate the first witnesses. I think colleagues are an example of that. Clearly, we want to investigate the situation around D47 clearly. The fact is that two members of the ANO Commission have not been involved in the commission's work since the beginning and have resigned after a few months. I mean, even with all the respect I have for them, and I have that one of those members was present on the committee, and the other wasn't there once. Similar was the case with the representative of the Dawn movement, who even initiated the commission in 2014. All former members of their departure were accompanied by political cries about the bias of the commission, especially to me. But they themselves have done virtually nothing to move the commission of inquiry. On the contrary, they played a blackout game before the regional elections, at least in my opinion, and against those parties that are investigating, they played a game that I believe was beyond the bounds of decency. I want to make this clear here: if new members are not nominated to the Commission from the ANO movement and from the Dawn movement, it is quite clear that it is the YES movement and the Dawn movement, who does not want to investigate anything and that you, colleagues and colleagues from the ANO and from the Dawn movement, are merely dedicated to politicization and to sharpening the work of other members. [[An outrage in the benches of the ANO movement and the Dawn movement]] I do not want to speculate what political game you, colleagues from YES and Dawn, are playing with this obstruction and you are proving responsibility to citizens and you waive any right to comment on the work and activities of this commission of inquiry. I'm sorry to have to say such words, but believe me, it's in response to your attacks on my person and colleagues who are on the committee of inquiry. Allow me to inform you of the following procedure. We'll continue on and on November 1st, the D47 investigation. There are nine of us today, so we are a quorum and the commission is working, and it works very efficiently. I will write a letter to the ANO club presidents and the Dawn movement and ask them to consider the nomination for the third time just to complete the D47 investigation committee. At the same time, allow me to make a request to the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to declare a third nomination deadline, by 7. 11. Third and last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u4	Thank you to the President of the Commission of Investigation, Mr Jan Birke. I don't have another application. Mr. President of the kolovratník has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u5	Thank you. I think I can process that it is okay to respond in the debate and accept the challenge - in quotation marks - here. I can say that I have also been asked by other fellow Presidents for a further deadline. From my point of view, this is a normal announcement of a deadline for proposals for changes in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's agree that the deadline will traditionally be announced, it's the same biorythm, until Monday, November 7th, until 13:00, so that any nomination of the commission can be discussed on Tuesday morning and any choice to take place again on Wednesday in the quotation marks - election day. So once again, I am responding and I am declaring a new deadline for filing a motion for amendments by Monday, November 7th, at 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-003-264.u6	Thank you to the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. We will therefore vote in accordance with the proposal of the President of the Election Commission. First, we will approve the appeal of Mr Igor Nykl from the Committee on Health, in the vote number 212, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It is the vote number 212, from 179 for 132. [[versus 1]] The motion was accepted. Now, as proposed, with one vote, we will approve the nominations to the budget committee of Mrs Dana Váhalová and to the Committee on Health of Mr Miloslav Janulík. We will decide in the vote number 213, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 213, from 179 for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. That can put an end to point No. 264. The next item is the item
