ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u1	170. Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on Firearms and Firearms (Gunarms Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 677/ - Third reading The seat at the rapporteur's table will be held by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Security, Mr Roman Váňa. The amendments are presented in the Houses of the Press 677/5, which has been delivered to you on 13 April of this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 677/6. The Minister is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the Chamber of Deputies has dealt with the amendment to the Act on Weapons several times. So I'm not going to introduce her in detail. Several amendments were applied during the second reading. I would like to say that I agree with the amendment tabled by the Security Committee. It is also possible to agree with Mr Chalup's amendment. Where I disagree with the amendments, these are the defence committee's proposals. This is because the police first invite the person concerned, and only if the gun is not issued, so is the possible entrance to the dwelling. That means, first of all, there's a voluntary arms release operation, and if it doesn't happen, police officers can enter the residence to seize this weapon from this person. Of course, these are people where there is a serious suspicion of their medical incapacity to hold the weapon further. We think that this provision is intended to protect people's lives in particular. As regards Mr Gabal's proposals and Mr Gabal and Mr Jurečka's proposals, I do not agree with these proposals, on the grounds that mandatory psychostases, for example. in Slovakia they have failed, are de facto vague, are flat and have not proved to be particularly successful with our neighbors in Slovakia. As far as the proposal is concerned, doctors should be obliged to inform the police. We thought the same thing in the beginning of the debate. But following a debate with medical clubs and associations, with Mr Kubk and others, we have found that if this obligation were imposed on doctors taxatically, it would be a huge complication, and a huge complication, especially in rural areas where there are mostly older doctors. Not everyone has access to the Internet, not everyone has access to the database. It would mean a huge complication. That is why we have withdrawn from this option, from this obligation towards doctors ourselves. I want to thank you for the very broad and professional debate that has led to this issue. We are prepared to respond in the course of the vote to the various amendments as proposed and as I briefly commented on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u3	Thank you, Home Secretary. Good morning, ma'am and gentlemen. We will continue with the debate which I am opening and to which Mr Daniel Korte is the first to enter. And I'm making a point of fact here... But come, my colleague, because I cannot make a factual point when there is no debate, and this is from Mr Tomio Okamura, who I do not see anyway. [[to the Member of Korte]] So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u4	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the opinion of the TOP 09 Club on this proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The amendment responds to two extraordinary events, unlikely, unexpected and unexpected, which we would like never to repeat. It's an explosion of ammunition storage in Vrbetice, and it's a legally held weapon fire in Uherské Brod with tragic consequences. While in the first case it turned out that this area -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but this is also for shooting. It's just words so far. But I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Those of you who speak, transfer your calls to the machine guns. And you, please, Mr. Ambassador, continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u6	Thank you. While the first area, i.e. The area of ammunition treatment has shown that it really is not well-treated by legislation and that, therefore, it is necessary and desirable to implement legislative regulation, the second amendment to the law on the possession of weapons is a pure populist cry. Our existing arms law is very high quality and strict. But so be it. The narrow throat for us is Section 56 and 57, mentioned by the Minister. It means that the police can invade the residence for the purpose of confiscating a legally held weapon without a court order. In our view, it is a breach of the right to the inviolability of dwellings, the right guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, namely Article 12. There is an amendment to the Defence Committee which releases these paragraphs. I think that's right. They're redundant. The police already have the possibility, even the duty, if there is a need to intervene against the imminent danger of life, health, rights and freedoms of others, public order, etc., to intervene immediately, without a court order. So he doesn't need these two paragraphs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the amendment under letter B is not adopted, i.e. this amendment to the Defence Committee, the TOP 09 will not be able to support this amendment. It's a shame, because, as I said, part of ammunition is quality and necessary. But the TOP 09 cannot and will not participate in the reduction, reduction and reduction of citizens' rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u7	Thank you, Mr Korte. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment on the amendments that have been recapitulated here by both Mr Minister and colleague Dan Kort for the ODS. As you know, since I have spoken on this subject several times in the Chamber of Deputies, I have proposed to both the Defence Committee and the Security Committee just a proposal to release the paragraph on breaking the home freedom. And I have suggested that this paragraph be dismissed precisely because I have consulted several constitutional lawyers as to whether the police are actually authorized to do things that might prevent shooting lunatics, whether they have the authority and whether they have enough. And I've confirmed that he really has the authority. And so have you in the last two weeks. You confirmed yourself in it yesterday when you were able to learn from the media that the police had confiscated several dozen weapons, several kilos of ammo from a man who had them at home, and not all of them had a gun ID. A completely exemplary, beautiful example of how existing legislation works. Just as a beautiful example of how existing legislation works, we saw in public media at the beginning of this week, when a man from the South Moravian Region threatened his surroundings with a gas gun - so he was not the holder of an arms license. But no one could tell from the logic of the matter remotely whether it was a self-loading gun or whether it was a gas gun, so that's why the SWAT team arrived there. Once again, under the law of the police, they performed an intervention, apprehended the man, disarmed the man, took him to the maid and confiscated his gas gun. What more do we want? Colleagues and colleagues, a proposal, as presented, would not prevent the situation that occurred in Uherský Brod. I didn't. I can tell you here more x cases from the last time the authorization, the existing authorization that the police have, works and is sufficient. There's no reason to break something that I think most of us in this House may still be sensitive, and that is personal freedom. Once again, we will punish the law-abiding citizens of the Czech Republic who have gone through all the responsibilities associated with becoming holders of arms certificates. We will be sharpening these people to their rights instead of actually focusing on combating possible excesses committed by illegal weapons from people who are prone to terrorist attacks. You know, when I mentioned here that the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and I consulted with constitutional lawyers, that the Constitution of the Czech Republic actually talks about the circumstances under which you can break home freedom - I don't want to delay you, but I want to convince you, so please pay attention and give me a chance to quote some of the passages connected with the constitutional framework. Thus, in the proposed amendment, according to known constitutional lawyers, some potentially constitutional non-constitutional provisions have been identified, in particular the authorisation of police members to enter their homes for the purpose of the detention of weapons, ammunition or documents laid down in the provisions of Section 56 (2) of the Act of Accession. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. One, two, and three arms laws. This document, from which I quote you - and it will not be long - summarises just a brief analysis of these provisions on the question of their compliance with the constitutionally guaranteed right to the inviolability of dwellings. Dear ladies, dear gentlemen, if we accept today's breach of this house freedom, there is no way to rule out this ending in the Constitutional Court. And I'm not the kind of person who would rattle guns and threaten here in quotes: we'll put it in the Constitutional Court. But we are really letting ourselves go and committing a violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms in which it applies, I quote: The residence is untouchable. It is not allowed to enter without the consent of the person who lives in it. End of quote from the Constitution. The non-touchability of the dwelling is broken first and foremost by clause No. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on a search warrant, according to which a search warrant is permitted only for the purposes of criminal proceedings, on... Don't yell!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u9	Not him - all of them! [[Mr Lank]] Please keep the House quiet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u10	The home inspection shall be admissible only for the purposes of criminal proceedings, at the written justification of the judge's order. The manner in which the house search is carried out is laid down by law. End of quote. Another and more important possibility - breaking the principle of inviolability of dwellings - is then contained in Article 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, under which I quote again - "other interventions in the integrity of dwellings may be permitted by law only if it is necessary in a democratic society to protect the life or health of persons, to protect the rights and freedoms of others, or to avert a serious threat to public security and order." I think that from what I have just quoted to you, and I can quote further, but I don't want many of you to be lawyers, many of you are sitting on the Constitutional Legal Committee, so you have also discussed this matter there, and even though no resolution has been adopted that would be majority, I think that the debate has been conducted there exactly in these intensities, as I have told you here. And we all know that the rights guaranteed by constitutional law can be limited as little as possible. In fact, this provision, which is also being dubbed with what is in the law on police, is, in my opinion, unconstitutional. And one more such interesting thing, and it may have escaped everyone! To all your colleagues who have dealt with this, and to all your colleagues who, in the Committee on Defence and Security, maybe even supported the original proposals of the Minister of the Interior and not my proposal. You know what you didn't notice? In addition to being able to reach your home, not only to yours, the Police of the Czech Republic, because you can have a permanent stay somewhere, but you can have a temporary stay elsewhere, you can have weapons with your family members, of course secure, so that, in fact, your family members, your friends, your neighbors, will also be able to carry out these home searches, unless they report you on the basis of reasonable suspicion that the police should be taking care of you. But you didn't notice one thing. And the thing is, in the law on the police, that's exactly how it's defined, whereas it's not defined in this proposal. It is not modified here whether a police officer must be present when entering the residence. When you compare the provisions of Section 40 of Law No. 273/2008 Coll., about the Police of the Czech Republic, so there it is. But here, for reasons of legal certainty and protection of the rights of the holder of the weapon, we should therefore insist that an obligation be laid down for a police officer to allow the participation of the holder of the weapon when entering the home. Like the Minister here was talking about a challenge. Yeah, the challenge can be written, it can be oral. There's some fiction about delivering the challenge. You will be on vacation, you will not be present in a permanent residence, you will return after a week of vacation and you will have a requisitioned apartment from a member of the Police of the Czech Republic without knowing about it without being present as holders of the weapon? Ladies and gentlemen, this has been forgotten! In the law on police, the obligation to be in the presence of the holder of the weapon to see how it is handled with his weapon held, for which he has a gun license, and in the law on police this provision is, this obligation. But there is no obligation in this proposal. So it's going to happen without a weapon holder present. Doesn't that seem absurd to you? So let me say in conclusion for the Civic Democrats' Club. I've been trying to convince you here for six months that the existing legislation is sufficient. Thank you Roman Váňa, thank you colleagues from the Defence Committee for returning some of the provisions in that law to the original proposal in the form of a de facto law, which means we have not broken for ten years, it remains ten years, it does not go short for five years. Lasers from the forbidden go to the authorized ones. The Government of the Czech Republic can no longer take weapons from citizens of the Czech Republic. Other provisions, which are also legislatively technical. Thank you for all your support for the proposals that I have made. But let us not, my fellow Members, too much of you, please, break this provision. It is not that we should not or do not want to have confidence in the Police of the Czech Republic. You know, she doesn't want to do this to the Police of the Czech Republic either! She doesn't want permission, which is contrary to the Constitution, because the Police of the Czech Republic know very well what will happen next. Let's not complicate our lives! Let's not complicate the lives of decent gunmen! Let us not complicate the life of the Police of the Czech Republic! Let's keep things as they are! Therefore, if you support my proposal, which is now in the defence committee's proposal - thank you to my colleagues for supporting me - we will not get into various predicaments in the future. And for the ODS club, I can say that if my proposal to break the home freedom does not pass, even though there are many good things in this law, even my proposals that you supported, we will have to abstain because the freedom of the individual, the freedom of our lives, the breaking of dwellings and things related to these matters, constitutional matters, are really so crucial to us that we believe that the Czech Republic should not be allowed to go anywhere else in these matters. I will therefore support my proposal in the amendments in this vote. And in that whole thing, in case it doesn't pass, I'll stick around. So I ask you very much to support the proposal that I have made, which is part of the defence committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u11	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I have two more factual points here. First, Mr Martin Lank, then Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would like to speak here in support of my previous speakers, because the proposal, this mentioned passage, is, in my opinion, quite dangerous. There's only reasonable suspicion. In other words, all you have to do is piss off your neighbor as an arms license holder, and the neighbor says that maybe you were aiming at him through the window, and he was looking at it strangely. And we have reasonable suspicion here, and that means a blank check for the police so she can get the gun. There's one more technical thing that hasn't been mentioned here. Because, frankly, I can't imagine how a rank cop can confiscate someone's gun when it's reported that this person may not be completely normal. I can't believe a regular cop is gonna go in there peacefully, ring the doorbell and say, "Hello, please, we know you might be a little crazy, but wouldn't you give us the gun?" And then the cop will think, because the holder will say, "Wait, I'll go get her." And he wonders if he's gonna carry it with his butt first or if he's gonna point it at him. That means what's the result? In my opinion, if there were to be a situation like this, the policeman would always require assistance from the task force. And just a suspicion or a puff from the neighbor will be enough that the whole street has a show, breaking into your door with a battering ram, pointing machine guns at you. In my opinion, this proposal is both so dangerous and has such connotations. And in my opinion, and by that I support the previous speakers, it is also redundant, because the police have this authority if necessary. I will therefore ask you to consider supporting the amendment from the Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u13	Thank you, Mr Lank. With another factual remark, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u14	Hello, everyone. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am so pleased to speak after my colleague Lanka, through the Vice-President, because that is what I told my colleagues at the club. You just saw exactly how to turn it around. Now I'd like to put it back on the ground a little bit. I understand why some Democrats look at it that way. I'm also a democratically-minded person, but I'm a person who's worked with it in practice. This entry into the building - you all focus on the entrance. The law changes a lot of other things, but that entry is dangerous for you. He's not dangerous to me. It was based on the fact that I'm not gonna provide evidence as a cop, I'm not gonna go see a neighbor or a friend who's gonna open the door for me. I'm going to see the guy I want to release the gun from. If I go in there with the task force, I'm sorry, whoever knows the police organization must know that the police officer is trained somehow. He can't do it is a superior thing, but he's got to do some basic stuff. And if I call a task force on every one of these things, I don't think about it. If a police officer maintains a procedure to be properly trained, there can be no such thing. He won't provide evidence. They reach out to a person, the challenge is there, then in case of danger, they enter and do exactly what they're supposed to do. To date, it's just an entry unrelated to a house search, based on all of us people, for your relatives, so that if a person's mental state changes and he could use weapons, the police will be authorized to help all of us. And I'm sorry, you all called after what happened in Uherské Brod, and let something happen, no matter what. No one could think of anything better than the Ministry. So my support has it, practical support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u15	I thank Mr Schwarz. With another factual remark, Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Unfortunately, what my colleague Schwarz said here is not true. There is no obligation in the law that the owner of the weapon must be present. How are the police gonna do the clearance in the apartment if they don't know where your gun is? He's just gonna look for safes, and he's not gonna go in your closet? Won't he go in your dresser? The police don't know where the gun is. And you won't give it to them after the challenge, because you don't need to know about the challenge. It's not that there's a duty here, that it must always be a challenge face to face. This may be a challenge written. I would like to know, then, when colleague Schwarz says he's an experienced cop, how this authorization would help, the new authorization that the Ministry of the Interior wants, and perhaps a number of you who have reason, you don't want him, how it would help within the shooter, a crazy mass murderer in Uherské Brod. How would the authority proposed by the Home Office solve the problem? If he's such an experienced cop, tell us what it would do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u17	And Mr Schwarz will tell you because he has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u18	I don't want to delay our coalition laws, but I have to tell the mayor who runs the city police in Prague 2, I presume. So it's weird to me that she doesn't know that, as chief of the city police, she should know. So I'll explain. Please, that's an exact example of how we're manipulating ourselves where we don't want to go. This law talks about when a citizen, a police officer, a soldier, anyone who learns that there might be some kind of threat to the mental state of his neighbor or any person, so the police won't go anywhere, they won't go anywhere, they won't break the task force, so they will come and challenge the holder, my colleague through the President, the weapons. [[Nesroz.]] If the holder isn't there, he has to take other precautions. But she can't be arrested, she can't take someone at all costs. She's going for security to secure the weapons. That's why the police officer needs to be trained. When the task force goes to arrest a man, it looks different, too. So that's why. That's how well-trained the police will be. In Uherské Hradiště - I don't know the case, everyone talks about it, we're all experienced police officers, right? There's 200 of us mostly here - I see, a little less today. I don't know what it was like, if someone warned the police in advance that this guy had a mental condition and used weapons, I don't know this, please. I'm not describing the Hungarian Brod. I'm just describing what the law is for. I'm talking about things I know from practice that could happen. I'm not in the habit of turning for the greater benefit. If the law was wrong, I wouldn't have supported it. Better thing for our people, I haven't found citizens yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. With the factual remark of Mrs Černochová, after which Mr Ludvík Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u20	First of all, it wasn't Hradiště, it was Brod. Second, I'm not in charge of the city police! In Prague 2 the status applies as in the whole capital, the status of the capital city of Prague, and the city police in the capital city of Prague, my colleague through the Vice-President, is in charge of Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová from your side, not the mayor of the city parts. Please don't lie here and mess with my colleagues, just like you do in your interpretation of the law. It's pretty clear here what's happened the last two weeks. And I told you at the beginning. Here were two surgeries, a demonstration of police operations, how the police are supposed to work. I thank the cops for that. It was one of the South Moravian Police's events, when there was a gas-gun shooting in the South Moravian Region. They were there immediately, including the chopper! They confiscated the guns, took the guy to the maid's office, disarmed him, conducted the expertise, found out it was a gas gun. It's okay - demonstration work. Thank you. Yesterday, a man from Brandys had an arsenal at home, a machine gun and a thousand rounds. Once again, based on her own investigation, no one here had to report, there she came, confiscated the arsenal, apprehended the guy, accused him of illegal arming. And again! Excellent work by the police, which we all have to thank for. The police have clearance! Mine and mine and mine! And I don't see any reason why we should give it to her in another law, and it's wrong! Just so that the owner of the gun may not be present for the procedure!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u21	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. With another factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, followed by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, just as I know about the case in Uherský Brod. The man, the killer, was under very high pressure because of his wife's mental state and turned to various organs repeatedly. He tried to deal with a family situation, and the result was apparently a short circuit. Just to explain what happened, that I got from people dealing with similar conditions information that it can happen again because there is no system of helping such mentally disturbed people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u23	I thank Mr Hovorka for his clarification. With another factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, we hear both opinions here. My colleague Schwarz says from his own practice. If you don't mind and remember, for over 17 years, I was an investigator of the Police of the Czech Republic, and I did the most serious violent crime, too, until the end I was on anti-corruption police. I've driven if not hundreds, at least dozens of house searches. If I should be inclined to one or the other opinion here, believe me, Mrs Černochová is right at this point. Thank you for your attention. And please vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u25	I thank Mr Ondráček. Mr Ivan Gabal, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, allow me once again to comment on an amendment that places psychological examinations as a solid part of a medical examination as a condition for obtaining or renewing an arms license. The amendment you have under letter D did not support the Security Committee, yet I would like to put some serious arguments and dilemmas on the table here in the House. If we leave the psychological examination as an option, i.e. according to the doctor's decision, we leave practical doctors with increasing responsibility for the accuracy of the mental status and mental status and the ability of the candidate to hold a weapon without support in a professional assessment, in conditions where two strong parallel trends are taking place. The first is the increase in the number and proportion of mental diseases and disorders, and the second is the rapidly expanding interest of the public to gain a weapon to defend themselves as a result of the uncertainty of people in terms of the security situation at least in Europe. We are living a very nervous, stressful and neurotic time, both in terms of the normal civilization and life burden, as well as in terms of the exposure of Europe and Evropan to the expanding war conflict around Europe, as well as the increase in attacks and risks of terrorism and radical Islamism in some European countries. All of this is largely multiplied by the overall media communications of events and risks, social media phenomena and the expansion of communication technologies, the amount of security information in real time, as well as the amount of inventions, disinformation and their dissemination and sharing. The security stress of citizens has become part of an active political game, both at the superpower level, such as disinformation activities and efforts to destabilize the electoral behaviour and attitudes of citizens under pressure from articulated or manipulated threats, as well as some internal political actors who are trying to beat political capital out of multiplication and spin threats and scare. There are many who want citizens to feel threatened, from the Islamic State to its multipliers in Europe and in our country. And it's no wonder the stress is growing and the interest in having a gun. I am far from restricting people's interest in their own security and their provision of weapons, for example, but I also want to avoid implementing security at the expense of the safety of others in terms of the ability and ability to hold and use a personal weapon. And I'm also interested in alternative answers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u27	I'm very sorry. I beg you, colleague, to continue when the O.R. is down. If it doesn't turn down, I'll start naming sinners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u28	And I also want alternative responses to, for example, the risks of terrorism, especially by developing the state's security performance, into which we put more than 110 billion. CZK and which cannot be replaced by personal armed forces, from intelligence services and their international cooperation to the competence and performance of armed forces. We would probably all like to see the resistance, readiness or flexibility of the Czech society towards these threats and risks within the meaning of the English word "resilience" to know how we should behave in risky situations, be resilient and less subject to fear or panic. However, it grows and is almost entirely interested in arming itself and, with it, the risk that the weapon will get into the hands of a person with a mental disorder or illness and will be used in violation of the original purpose. Moreover, this trend is not much evidence of strengthening citizens' confidence in the armed forces. Between 2000 and 2013, the number of persons in outpatient psychiatric treatment increased from 340 to over 640 thousand. After 2013, unfortunately, the IHIS stopped collecting data, but the Czech society tends to look at psychological or psychiatric treatment with respect, so the really ill will probably be a lot more. Similarly, the growth trend is evident in schizophrenic and neurotic disorders and diseases. The number of patients treated for neurotic disorders increased from 135,000 to 225,000 between 2000 and 2013. Mental illness is the second most common cause of disability after muscle and skeletal diseases. In 2014, 92,000 people from 431 thousand disabled pensioners received a disability pension due to mental illness and behavioral disorder. In these circumstances, can we say that the likelihood of a collision of mental illness and an attempt to obtain a weapon does not increase? That's probably not likely, rather the other way around. So either we include a psychological examination as a tribal part of a medical examination, or we give sole responsibility to a physician. There are enough doctors who seem to be aware of the type of response, but I leave the risk assessment to them. The international trend of psychological testing requirements is increasing. I'm not here to convince anyone, but I want us to be aware of the responsibility and development trend that raises the psychological burden. It's not about restricting private possession of weapons, it's about securing such a situation. And let me conclude with a personal remark. I think we've ruined practically a year of life by scaring each other, sometimes by growing a hysterical atmosphere. I think it's time to return to normal life, normal human relationships, and positive thinking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u29	I thank Mr Gabal. Now there are three factual points, so far. The first is Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, followed by Mrs Černochová, followed by Mr Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u30	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. I'm here to respond to my previous speaker, whom I respect, but I have to express my fundamental disapproval of what he said here. As far as country security and defence are concerned, today the situation is that our security and armed forces, if we put together people who are really capable of fighting, are certainly not able to defend this country effectively in themselves. A nation can defend it. The security and defense forces are part of this. So we're going to be talking about security agencies that could contribute, and I'm pointing out that a nation that knows how to behave in crisis situations and, therefore, people who are armed and trained to use weapons greatly increase the country's defence. The haunting, it's not like we want to scare each other. The haunting comes from the overall international situation here. And it's not that we're creating situations here. These are created and we have to face them in some way. And I'm gonna talk a lot more here in the House about the need to bring people to school for crisis situations, the need to restore the congressional community, as he was in the first Republic of Edvard Beneš, and gather all the capacities of this nation, if anything happens in this country, so that we can be able to defend ourselves effectively and that every enemy knows that when he comes here, it won't pay him back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u31	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague Gabal and I have been on this subject for a long time, so I would like to ask him by your means as an expert, as a sociologist and certainly as an extension to this area, where he has a number of colleagues, what specific psychostases would Mr Gabal have in mind by your means. You know, many of you probably remember the recent case, also a tragic case, luckily not from the Czech Republic. He was a German Wings pilot who decided to end his life in a very tragic way, unfortunately he had a number of other passengers on that plane. And the analysis that just assessed his mental state clearly stated that if pilots or people in exposed positions tested themselves - in the case of pilots before each flight - it wouldn't even work. Indeed, our psyche is so variable that there's only one trigger to change behavior so that there's some short-circuit behavior, and it doesn't prevent psychostas that are done once every ten, once every five years. [[10.30 hours]] On the contrary, in today's law, the attending physician, the physician, may order psychostasies. I think it's much more effective when a patient is being investigated by a family physician who knows his family, his family, than an anonymous psychologist. And the possibility of psychological examination, the testing in the current modification is. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] There is also the possibility not to issue a medical license for ten years, but for a shorter period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u33	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Koskuba, Mr Martin Novotný. It's also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly respond to the debate that has been going on here. I want to assure my colleague Gabal that the health of a person, even mentally, is so variable that it is actually virtually impossible on the day of the examination to determine what will happen in the afternoon, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. As an ex-military aerospace doctor, I conducted mandatory pilot inspections after every third landing. Yet, as my colleague Černochová said here, we could not be sure what was going on between the second and third launches. We don't want to have to control our people like this. Through the Vice-President, my colleague, we would have to test the driver before every ride. And we know what's going on on on the roads. It has a two-ton car that runs, although speed is limited, up to 250, it is a weapon as dangerous as any firearm. Well, I'm also going to see my colleague, Černochová. I listened to my colleague Schwarz. I confess that as a doctor, I have the privilege of contacting the police. And I don't envy their work. I've been talking about their problems. Not always, and do not be offended, through the Vice-President, my colleague, they are not always sure what to do. I'll remind you of one thing. They took the liberty of checking on a lady with an I.D. on a train. You know what it was. I remember a time when no one dared to sue a police officer for this. I mentioned a cop shooting at a runaway drug addict. I did. Luckily, he's freed. But even though GIBS decided twice that he was innocent, the kid was under further stress. I think the current system is sufficient, and I, too, have to stand up for them - policemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u35	Thank you. I ask Mr Novotný to make a point of fact, then Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u36	Good morning, I just wanted to briefly respond to my colleague Chalupa. I certainly share your belief that an army without a nation that is willing to defend itself cannot perform its functions, but I would also like to add that, for example, with the degree of disunity between the views of politicians in this House on the foreign orientation of this country, on the evaluation of geopolitical risks, etc. I'd rather wait for them not to shoot each other by chance with the people's arms and the creation of a militia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u37	Mr. Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u38	Thank you. Because I've been kind of challenged, I'll respond not to security aspects, but to psychological ones. I'm not going to convince you to put an option, a mental, psychological examination in place as a firm one. I just told you that the proportion of psychic diseases has grown by 100 percent since 2000, as well as the increase in armedness, i.e. the logical likelihood that a weapon can come into the hands of a person with a mental disorder. That's why, like professional drivers, engineers and others, they have a psych evaluation every year, I think it's good that once every ten years, those who hold a gun go through it. And also through you, my colleague Koskuba. I'm not gonna train you from methodology, but that argument deserves an introduction to methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u39	Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know what I'm looking forward to? When we discuss the Constitution of the Czech Republic and, for example, a colleague, Gabal, or one of the other members of the Government Coalition, submit a proposal to amend the law concerning the mandate of Members and Senators, the two chambers of Parliament. Because if there's been a mention of someone deciding the fates of the passengers, someone may be threatening their surroundings with weapons, and these people should be tested in some form, I think we should be tested as legislators in the first place. Because we make the most decisions about the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u41	Mr Schwarz with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u42	Good morning. I would still like to see Dr Koskuba through the Vice-President. I understand what he's saying. That's exactly what this is about. That's exactly how I pointed out to my colleague at the club. But don't be angry, because of the misconduct of one or two police officers who have completed their duties, failed to complete their duties, we cannot wrap up our citizens' protection and say all 40,000 police officers will proceed against the law. You can't do that. People make mistakes. But the task of the Ministry and of us here was to improve security in our republic regarding weapons holders. Personally, I didn't invent anything from practice, please, an ordinary police officer, better than what the Ministry has submitted. I understand it's exploitable. That's what I told everyone. But I'm counting on it, even if it saves a well-executed weapon lockdown, well-executed entry to secure one, two, three lives, it's still gonna be okay. Against one or two cops taking advantage of it. That can happen, please. I didn't say that. But since I couldn't put forward a better amendment or a better amendment, my conviction simply commands me to support it. But I agree with some arguments. But we don't have anything better. When we have something better, please cancel this and we'll protect our people better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u43	I don't see any more factual remarks, so we'll go back to proper applications. Mr Gabal has already spoken, so just a colleague Gazdík did not delete it. In that case, the last in the debate so far, Mr Lank. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, lovely morning, esteemed colleagues. I'd go back to psychics for a while. Since many of the arguments that I had prepared here have been made in factual remarks, I will allow myself to recapitulate them a little and add a few more. If I say it very popularly, if anyone's crazy and wants to commit a crime, they probably won't go for a legal weapon. Similarly, the holder of an arms license who has doubts about his condition, his mental state, is not going to go to the doctor to deal with his condition in any way, because he will be afraid of losing his armory. Secondly, as has already been said here, for the issue of an arms license, it is already necessary to assess the practical doctor with whom the applicant is registered. If this doctor suspects, he may request a psychological examination. And since this doctor knows the patient and his history, I can't imagine that he wouldn't do that in case of doubt and take responsibility for what might theoretically happen. And doctors, in a number of cases, really demand these assessments, it's not that unusual. [[10.40 hours]] Thirdly, and I think that is absolutely essential, according to experts, such a preventive psychological assessment is valid for about a week or so. At most that week, the doctor, the psychologist, is willing to vouch for his mental state. Because as we can all imagine, you can go crazy day by day. It's enough to match several factors, and if there's a predisposition that a quick assessment hardly reveals, that's now. Four. International experience clearly shows that psychostasis doesn't solve anything. In Slovakia, they have been obliged since 2010 and have not prevented a shooting lunatic from killing three people two years later and hurting two. This, ladies and gentlemen, was a city officer, and I assume he was going through even more severe psychostases than a civilian arms card applicant would go through. It just doesn't solve anything. Five. If only professionals have mandatory psychostases so far, and I acknowledge that it is perfectly okay, security professionals, and we will also introduce them to the armed public, then we will proceed by analogy with applicants for a driving licence, because professional drivers also have to undergo the inspection, it has also been said here. And the fact that a car in the hands of a madman can make a mess, I hope none of us doubt that. And for the sixth - I also mean a rather crucial thing. The process of issuing an arms license, which in itself is not in any way fast and somehow simple, would not only prolong the process, but also significantly expensive, by at least a few thousand. The same would, of course, apply in the event of an application for renewal of the arms licence after five or ten years. This means, from my point of view, such tightening-up would be welcomed by the highest level of psychologists for whom it would mean a guaranteed, regular and non-negligible source of income. Although from what I've heard, they're against it, too. They don't want it. Perhaps it would be welcomed by those whose unfair targets pose an unpleasant risk to the armed public. And I don't want to be a part of that. The last thing we should be doing at the moment is throwing more sticks under the feet of decent people who want to be able to defend themselves if necessary. That means our MPs won't support the mandatory psychostases. On the contrary, as I said before, we will also beg you to support the amendments from the Defence Committee. Otherwise, as far as the position of the Dawn MEP - National Coalition is concerned, we also do not like giving the police basically a blank check so that you can come to your house at any time on suspicion. On the other hand, I hope that the amendment will pass, because the law itself, as has already been said here, contains a lot of important and good things, especially in response to the explosion in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. These changes to the law are really necessary, necessary, there was systemic error, this law solves it. And I think it would be a shame if this law was thrown off the table because of a few things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u45	I also thank the honourable Member. If there are no other applications for the debate, then - yet Mr Čihák with a factual remark? Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u46	Hello, I just have a brief remark on the whole thing that I've been hearing now during that hour and a half. And I will tell you that I am holding an arms license and I am meeting a lot of people, whether they are hunters, sports shooters or people who have guns at home, and I am in favour of supporting Mr Gabal's amendment, and I will vote in favour of all of us who possess a gun license to undergo regular psychological tests. I think it's very important. There's a lot around me, like I said, friends, hunters, and sports shooters who have their own personal problems. They solve them with alcohol, solve them with pills, etc. etc. I think the test they're about to pass can help a lot to avoid any other events like before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u47	I do not see any more applications, in which case I am done with the debate. The minister told me he wished for the final word, which is why I'm going to give him space now. [[Minister Chovanec off the microphone: How much time do I have?]] Minister, you have all the time you need. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to respond in my final words to the debate. Some views are refreshing and should certainly not fit in the future as mandatory psychostases of constitutional officials. That's what I think is really an idea that shouldn't fit in. Dear colleagues, the world has really changed, and whether we like it or not, it is less safe. Before 1989, three or four months before the fall of the former regime, I didn't think I'd be able to go to Germany by not knowing where the border was. I didn't think I'd be buying bottled water. That was so big science fiction that I couldn't imagine this. Unfortunately, the security situation that was here a year ago, two years ago, is gone. Unfortunately, the security situation in five years will be completely different, and our children will grow up in a world that will just be different. And probably and unfortunately will be less safe. This government has been dealing with the issue of security for two years. This government increases the budgets of the security forces. This government provides an audit of national security or national resilience, precisely because we are very aware of these risks and do not want our successors to have to deal with these problems when they arise. We need to anticipate, we need to face the risks. There's a lesson to be learned. There is a need to learn in countries where they live with this phenomenon and risks and where they have laws and measures that are tested in practice, whether they are the United States, Israel or other countries. There is a need to learn and see where our society is going. Already today, ladies and gentlemen, a government authority may enter a dwelling if it suspects that this person is infected with a contagious disease. Already after the challenge, the mayor can come in today to check on what kind of heat or what it's drowning in that dwelling. And we only want, and only for police officers, another possibility, in the event of reasonable suspicion - reasonable suspicion - to call on the citizen to hand over the weapons voluntarily. He has the opportunity to just volunteer, hand over the guns to the policeman, and that's the end of the story. I'm holding a gun, too, and if a policeman comes to me and tells me Mr. Chovanč, for those and for those reasons, hand over your weapons, I'll just hand them over, without resistance. Then I can complain about the general inspection, the police inspection, in court. Of course, the handover of the weapon will be accompanied by administrative proceedings on whether or not the state will remove the weapon definitively from the human being. If the man doesn't do it and doesn't voluntarily release the gun, which is likely to be predicted for some psychopath, then the police will only enter the residence. And don't be mad at me, the police won't be chasing that psychopath for a week, two weeks, to see him. Regarding the situation in Uherské Brod. In light of what happened there, I don't want to put salt in the wounds again, so marginally. I mean, we know this guy's been holding a gun for years. And yet we know that right before he committed this act, the police called him to attend a medical examination, because the police had reasonable doubts that this person was still fit to hold the gun. But at the time, the police had no legal option of entering the residence and confiscating his weapon. That's how we change it. [[10.50 hours]] I think this is an institute, instrument and tool that will be used by the Police of the Czech Republic in isolated cases. That we're talking about ten cases a year, maybe less. I'm far from denying rights to honest gunholders. It's exactly the opposite. This government is fighting for us not to implement Europe's senseless ideas to ensure that our arms holders, who are now moving within the limits of a very strict and good law on weapons, are still tightening up so that we can liquidate museum collections and other nonsense that, unfortunately, sometimes European legislation produces. That means we want to support honest gunholders. We're on their side. And personally, I think that a citizen who holds a gun for his own protection, for his hobbies, is no danger to the state. Quite the opposite. For these reasons, we come up with these proposals. Of course, the proposals arose after what happened in Uherský Brod and what happened in the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. Unfortunately, sometimes tragedy must happen in order to respond quickly. We're trying to do this standard. I will ask you to vote on the proposals as they were submitted and according to the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. It's up to you to decide, of course. Thank you for your attention and thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the final word. Two apologies came to me. Mr Soukup apologizes from 12 o'clock until the end of the meeting for personal reasons and Mr Jakubčík after 13 o'clock for working reasons. I will ask the rapporteurs, because we have three rapporteurs who want to speak. Mr Váňa does not want to speak, Mr Schwarz does not want to speak, and Mr Seďa, I do not see him here. He doesn't want to get off, either. In that case, we will vote. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the procedure and then to present the various amendments and also to give an opinion on them. The rest of you, please settle down, keep your voice down, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, on the basis of the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Security, we have prepared and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to vote in third reading according to the procedure that is part of the House press of 677/6, which you have at your disposal. Legitimately, technical adaptations were not made in the third reading. Furthermore, we would start with the vote on the amendment under the heading. B, that's the one from the defense committee. I am just pointing out that if it were adopted, then there will be no voteable amendment A11 from the Security Committee. I'll just explain. This amendment regulates the police's power to secure the weapon so that it is carried out by specialists in the service for weapons and security materials. So he wouldn't be any police officer, but a specialist in this service. If Amendment B had been adopted, it would not have been possible to vote. Furthermore, the amendment would be voted under the heading. C Mr Gabal, under the heading. D, then letter E and finally under letter E. And a comprehensive amendment from the Security Committee. Finally, the vote on the Act as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u51	I'll ask if anyone's suggesting a different procedure. This is not the case, but I have taken a vote on the procedure to be sure, and I ask who agrees with this procedure. Who's against it? The vote has 460, registered is 167, for 160, versus no one. The draft procedure has been accepted. We can therefore proceed to individual amendments. Please, rapporteur, another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u52	First of all, we would vote on the amendment referred to as the letter. B. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u53	Minister's opinion, please? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 461, registered is 166, for 75, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u54	We would also vote on Mr Gabal's amendment to letter C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u55	We'll wait for the vote check. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Mrs Zelienková. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u56	I'd just like to say that I voted in favour, but I'm not on drugs like I was looking at right now, and I'd like to question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u57	Yes. It is an objection to the record of the vote that we will decide on in the vote which I have begun, and I ask who agrees with this objection by Mrs Zelienková. I see. I'll check you all out. I declare the vote confusing. I ask for a new registration and we will vote on the objection once more. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mrs Zelienková's objection. Who's against it? The vote has number 463, registered is 164, for 155, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore repeat the vote on the amendment under the heading. B. That's right. Opinions have been made. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 464, registered is 164, for 74, against 73. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u58	Furthermore, we will vote on the amendment under the heading. C Mr Gabal. This is the introduction of an obligation for practitioners to report the loss of eligibility of persons to the Police of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u59	Mr rapporteur, I am very sorry, but there is a request for further control of the vote, so all I have to do is ask the House to be patient and we will wait for the vote to be checked. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] I ask you to make room for President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, please accept my apology, I cannot explain. I certainly squeezed "yes" as in the first case, but I still have a cross on the junk. I have no choice but to question the vote and ask for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u61	Yes. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Kalousek's objection. Who's against it? It's a 465, registered 163, for 154, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore repeat the vote on the amendment under letter B. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this proposal. Who's against it? It's a 466, registered 163, for 74, against 73. This proposal has not been adopted. Before I vote on the next proposal, I will ask if there is an interest in controlling the vote. It's not like that. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u62	Thank you. We will therefore continue to vote on the amendment under letter C. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u63	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 467, registered is 164, for 16, against 112. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u64	Furthermore, we will vote on Mr Gabal's amendment to the letter D. This is the introduction of mandatory psychostases. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u65	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 468, registered 164, for 18, against 116. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u66	Next, we will vote on Mr Chalup's amendment to the letter E. This is a specification of the entities to which this law does not apply, not only the Army of the Czech Republic but also the Military Police. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u67	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 469, registered is 164, for 163, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u68	Now there is a vote on the amendments to the Security Committee, which are marked by letter A. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is - it recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 470 vote, 164 logged in, 145 against no one. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u70	So we have dealt with all the amendments and now all that remains is the vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u71	Yes, but there's still a request for a word with priority rights. So, Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to request a break for a meeting of the KDU-ČSL Club for ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u73	Yes, I'm interrupting the meeting, and I'll meet you at 11:14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u74	Colleagues, colleagues, the time for the KDU-ČSL club meeting has passed, so we will continue. Mr. Mihola is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state on behalf of the KDU-ČSL that we are not satisfied with the result of the vote on the amendments. However, we will support the bill as a whole. [[The noise in the hall.]] We feel that it brings many positives. The law did not support the reduction of the period of verification to five years and, at this rate of growth, we consider the situation to be risky and worthy of further attention. Unfortunately, even according to the previous words of the Minister, it's as if the weapon can get into the hands of a psychopath, and that's not a good thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u76	Before we vote, Mr Kalousek's priority right. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u77	Thank you, very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just refer to Mr Korte's speech from the TOP 09, which announced that, if this law, in much need, again as many laws before it will limit a piece of further individual human freedom, it is not possible for the TOP 09 to support it. [[The O.R.'s down.]] That's why we're not supporting him. I'm just gonna sigh that there's a lot of law lately. Always under some noble reason, whether it's security, tax collection, or whatever else, is always a little bit less of individual human freedom. KDU-ČSL always warns about it, protests - and then supports it. TOP 09 draws attention to this, protests and we cannot support it. Because individual human freedom is at the top of our agenda's priorities and our priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u78	And the chairman of the ODS Club has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u79	Thank you for the floor. So, first of all, I would like to thank eight government Members who, together with the opposition, voted against restrictions on house freedom. We really appreciate it, because the pressure from the government coalition is as great as ever. Today, the rest of you have reduced your house freedom. And the legitimate question is which freedom this government will take away from us next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u80	Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u81	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, to be clear. There may be any view of what freedom is, for whom it should be greater, or smaller, or the same. I will just point out that there is no error in freedom, that your freedom, my colleague, through the President, ends exactly where my freedom or your neighbour's freedom begins, your partner's freedom, or the freedom of a second citizen, who certainly has exactly the same rights as yours. And our individual freedom must have those limitations where justice or legitimate interest are protected, or, for example, freedom for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u82	And once again, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u83	I want to thank Prime Minister Kováčik for the reminiscence. I am among those who have spent half their lives in a country where your party, through Mr President, had a leading role, and that half of life really wasn't worth much, and that freedom wasn't much either. That's why I'm quite nervous, along with my colleagues, that we're slowly sneaking back in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u84	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u85	There is no way I wanted to provoke a repeated debate, Mr President. But all right, a specific example. The freedom of those people who accidentally just happened to be in a place that meant the end of their lives, in a restaurant in Uhersky Brod, against the freedom of the shooter. That's what I mean. I don't mean reminiscence into some past! I mean the present and the future! I mean a sense of security for the proper, decent citizens of the Czech Republic! Not any excesses or anything that somebody's trying to put in my mouth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u86	Vice-President Gazdik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, through the President to President Kováčik. My mom worked as a nurse at that psychiatrist whose patient in Uhersky Brod was the killer. As mayor of the village, I know very well the actions of Hungarian police officers. I needed them in my eight-year mayor's period about 53 times, I succeeded about three times. If you expect this nonsense that you're going to approve, it will change the boundaries that this man wouldn't do what he did, then you're really naive. This will only prevent personal freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u88	And once again, Prime Minister Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u89	Very briefly again. Thank you for the floor. It is also about restoring at least fundamental trust in the state and its institutions that they will be able to protect the individual freedom of every citizen. And if there are any other doubts about any of the club KSČM, I assure again, it is about the present, the future. And whoever has these doubts, look at our vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-005-170.u90	I don't see any more requests for a performance. In that case, I will say with the rapporteur that we have voted on all the amendments and all we have left is to vote on the bill as a whole. I will also draw up Mrs Lorencová's apology between 11.30 and 14.00 for work reasons. We can therefore vote on the bill as a whole. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 677, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Firearms Act]] I'll ask for opinions. [[Rapporteur: The opinion of the Guarantee Committee recommends it. - Agreed.]] I'm gonna check you out because there's a check-out request. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 471, registered at 157, for 93, against 35. This proposal has been adopted and I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing point 170. We're going to discuss a point.
