ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 13 and 14 / House prints 763 and 764/ I'm registering Mr. Pilný's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the law, which has such a magical title and which has the eIDAS directive, gives rise to relatively weak interest, few people understand it. In my contribution, I would try to explain to you what is going on, because this law will apply to every citizen of the Czech Republic. First of all, this law does not introduce a unified electronic identity, as they do in Estonia. It's just not possible, there's no infrastructure at the moment, there's a whole range of private services, you know how you pull out your PINs or you have electronic banking. We're not ready to introduce something like this. This law introduces a relatively simple matter. In contact with public or public administration, electronic documents, i.e. that you have to prove that you are the one who is filing the document and that you are authorized to do this transaction. That's all this law should do. And it is not about the European Union pushing it. It's a law that should definitely be passed. However, the law in this form looks completely different. First, such a direct amendment or an indirect amendment to Act 106 on Information of General Data is glued to it. It is a National Catalogue of Open Data, which is supposed to create lines for all open data that should be accessible to any citizen or commercial company who would like to use them. It's de facto something that's partially contained in that law 106. First of all, this does not belong to the law, secondly, the naive idea that it will be addressed by the lines and that the law prescribes a certain format of the data to comply with the textual information is a look in the rear-view mirror. The information, of course, also exists in graphic form, there are photographs, videos, territorial decisions, which are simply graphic etc. The law doesn't remember that. The data currently available are zillions. Tens of thousands of subjects generate this data. And this sticker to the law does not accompany any RIA, nor how much it costs, nor how much it will cost the public administration. It's just not part of the law. Next. Although the Economic Committee discussed this law, it did not have any amendments at all. So one of Mrs Kovářová's amendments is also that one department in the Ministry of the Interior, which manages the register, should be able to carry out economic activities. That's been done before. We separated the race from the Czech Post, which then became a nakito, whose definition and what it will actually do is a bit of a grey zone. In this case, this department only acquires an economic activity which we can either establish by a decree of establishment, which has not happened, or by a special law. I don't know how this department is going to carry out this economic activity, because people who understand electronic certification are here in this country by counting them on the fingers of two hands. That's the first problem. The second problem is simply why he should pursue economic activity when there are certification authorities. I understand that the Ministry of the Interior must have supervision over how these certifications look and should monitor them, but this has nothing to do with economic activity. Next. As regards the unification of the credibility of documents to be submitted to the public administration, this law directly amends several dozen laws. The identification is done so-called Special legislation. This special legislation differs from one piece, i.e. This is not a single regulation. I'm not gonna tire you of the electronic signature, the electronic signature, the electronic seal, and the other things that will prove your identity. I understand that in that short period of time, because the deadline for law enforcement has been shortened, trying to unify the identification is almost impossible. It is also why I have repeatedly asked the Minister of the Interior not to reduce the deadline for this law. The last meeting on this issue initiated by the ICT Union took place on Monday at the Ministry of the Interior and did not end with any conclusion. The law we are about to pass also amends the law on IDs. What's today's ID? You can buy a chip ID today, pay a fee, there's nothing on that chip. After the adoption of this law, we will have an ID with a chip that you will not pay for, but it is not known what will be on it at all. Any particular idea of what's going to be there just doesn't exist. I pointed that out when we were dealing with this law. [[15.30 hours]] My role as a Member is very complex because, in my opinion, the law, as it is prepared, should not leave the Chamber of Deputies. I am, of course, a member of the coalition, so I will not propose a rejection of the law, but I will definitely propose a return to second reading at the third reading of this law so that the law can be properly discussed and that it can be corrected for what can be done. What should be fixed there at least. First, remove the sticker, which introduces a catalogue of open data, and put it in law 106, whose amendment is being prepared at the Ministry anyway. Secondly, revoke the authorisation of the department at the Ministry of the Interior, which introduces economic activity. The first thing can be done without a problem, it's just a matter of the Interior Ministry's opinion. The latter, of course, requires that an amendment be prepared, which would be good if the Ministry of the Interior had prepared it. I will be a carrier without any problem, or it may be another member of the Economic Committee. As far as I.D. is concerned, there's gonna be some sort of agreement again about what's actually going to happen to the citizen. 'Cause the way I said it, and the way you hear it, if your ears are ringing, with Karta, with Opencard, me too. So if the idea is not clarified, then, of course, it will be necessary to correct the wording of this law again with an amendment that would be very simple in this case. If we can pull this off, we're gonna release the House of Deputies law that we're gonna turn citizens into test rabbits. It will be a minimalist version that will meet what the Union wants us to do, but we will test what it looks like, how people stand up to it, and on that basis the law will necessarily have to be amended. However, the problem is that there are already electronic transactions that have to be executed even under penalty. I'll just give you an example of one ministry and one commodity. Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration. So if you're filing a tax return and you have a data box, which is a certain way of identifying it, you have to file it electronically under penalty. Then we introduced two agendas. VAT control reports and e-booking of sales. In both of these cases, identity is proven in a completely different way. So the citizen, and they're hundreds of thousands, just in this simple case, these are taxes and the Treasury, they're already proving their identity in three different ways. If we accept this law, the number will multiply. In my opinion, the law is not prepared, and I will definitely recommend that it return to the committees and be corrected accordingly at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u3	Thank you and now please to the microphone of Mr. Koníček. Excuse me, Mr Klán. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. My colleague Koníček is sitting over there, and I was eager to discuss the subject with him. [[The President apologizes.]] It's okay, it's okay. I'm here to comment on the EIDAS problem. As a first point, do I have the reason for shortening the deadline for 30 days? That could have been 60 in that case! When you see all sorts of conflict in the coalition, it's quite smiling. Because one says well, we must prepare an amendment that we did not have time to make because the deadline was reduced to 30 days, so we could leave it within a legal period of 60 days. And notice that when a government proposal is made here, maybe the Minister or the rapporteur or someone from the government coalition will come forward and say he wants to cut it short. And then we get to the millstones, where the committee then tries to interrupt again or in some way postpone it before any amendments come. But that's government coalition stuff. I'm begging you to always talk that out before you cut it short. Because it's bothering us all afterwards, and then it's holding back the negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies. But now I will return to the problem of eIDAS and, for example, electronic IDs. I would ask the Ministry of the Interior to make it as soon as possible, and according to my information it should be by the end of this year, a draft law on electronic civil documents is due. I would intercede for that, because then there are, I think, two years before the whole implementation takes place, and it will, of course, end the parliamentary term of this Chamber of Deputies next fall, so that it can all be done. What's the electronic identity card supposed to say? Because today, when I'm going to pick up my new ID, I can have it with a chip, of course, and of course there's nothing on it. That's already been mentioned here. I'll pay 500 crowns, but it doesn't bring me any other benefits than the classic citizen. Take a look at Slovakia. It works in Slovakia, so we can somehow take this model to heart. As for the amendments that have been read on the subcommittee on eGovernment of the Public Administration, that the Chair of the Sub-Committee is the rapporteur, I have, of course, cloned them, I have also voted in favour of them. Of course, I also voted in this way on the committee, so I will also vote in third reading, of course, with the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. When we were discussing problems there, for example, how other European Union countries are doing, at what stage, we learned, for example, that we have made some progress and that we are on the best way to accept the eIDAS. So here I have to say that this is a directive of the European Union, so I do not want to adopt this directive anyway and we will have to incorporate it into our legal order. When I asked what kind of sanctions we are in danger of, there would probably be some very large sanctions in my opinion, because even the surrounding states, other European Union states have quite a bit of a problem with implementing this bill, and they are in certain stages but they are elsewhere than we are. Of course, I got an answer for that. With regard to the answer to who would bear the costs of, for example, those regions or municipalities that would somehow be customers of the eIDAS, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior were told that the contribution to the transferred competence of the state administration would be increased. So it's already counted for next year that the funds are going to be there, and it's going to be compensated in this way. That would probably be my contribution to the discussion in brief, but I really say, if we want to have fun and discuss this issue properly, because it is an electronic form of communication, let us not shorten the time limits for committee discussions for 30 days. Then there will be no confusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u5	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. Mr. Chalupa's microphone first, please. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u6	Thanks for the word. Just for a very short time. I join in what Mr Pilný said here, and I would like to point out that these are really very fundamental things that will affect the life of each of us, every citizen of the Czech Republic. It's about things that are part of a much wider virtual space issue, which we've been talking about here. And I want to say one thing, if the law isn't really going to be well discussed, well-prepared, well-written, then we're also in danger of what entrepreneurs are starting to call electronic emigration. That they would rather manage a lot of these things in other European Union countries, where it would be easier and cheaper and it would apply to the whole of the European Union, and this state would lose a number of fees that could result from this. And those entrepreneurs are already beginning to realize that. So I'd like to ask that the legal process really pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u7	Thank you. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, Mr. Bendl will be ready. A point of fact, Mr. Ambassador, you're signed up for it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am interested in what the Chairman of the Economic Committee has said, Mr Pilný, that today there are basically three kinds of identifications, as he commented, in the submission of documents to the Ministry of Finance, and that this would create the fourth way. I hope that the Chairman of the Economic Committee is aware of what kind of government party he represents here, which has proposed these designs in the past. But now to the solution he himself suggested, it should come back from the third reading. Why mess it up, put it on the guarantee committee in third and back again? Why don't we get this back to the guarantee committee at second reading? It'll be easier, it'll be faster. And especially for the next time, please don't be so hasty with the shortening of the time limits for discussion. This has already been said by a previous speaker, Mr Klán. It's a very common phenomenon here. A representative of the government coalition, especially the YES movement, is proposing a shortening of deadlines. We're protesting, we're disapproving, you're declaring it with power. And now we're dealing with what you're proposing. I suggest we get back to the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u9	Yes, thank you. I would now like to address Mr Bendl's microphone with a factual remark. [[Gesticulation on the right.]] Good, because no one's logged in, you have the floor. With proper application by Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u10	Thank you, I promise I won't be too long. On this bill, I was speaking at first reading, and with the chairman of the Economic Committee, we had a little dilemma here, when I was trying to say here that we are dealing with step ten, in simple terms, whatever I consider it necessary. We need that law. But the argument that was made here at first reading was that the European Union is pushing us with deadlines and we need to do this as soon as possible. I am inclined to the opinion of the Chairman of the Economic Committee that we must want to hear what the context will be, what belongs there and what does not belong there. I suggested that we may have a seminar on this subject so that the Ministry of the Interior would describe the steps it has prepared for us and have some clear deadlines. Because as far as the electronisation of public administration is concerned, the Czech Republic has been sleeping for a long time. If you look at other countries, it can also be east of us, for example Slovakia, so in many cases they have managed to simplify communication with the authorities. We actually sleep in this regard. And if we want to do something about this, and I would argue for it, that is why I am not opposed to the absolute liquidation of this bill, but to its maximum precision, so that we do not have to go back to it too much to correct it so that we are able to really use it, and that we do not make a mistake, because when we cause error in communication with people, with the public administration, then, of course, it will turn against all of us. And I wouldn't want that mistake to happen. At the meeting of the Public Administration Committee, we have devoted ourselves quite intensively to eGovernment and all the contexts, across the political spectrum - and I hope no one will deny it - we have confirmed that the Czech Republic really sleeps in this area, that, above all, the Ministry of the Interior and the Prime Minister, because the various records we have today, various databases and the like, when people run from devil to devil to deal with one thing, we have a lot of them. And we wanted to hear some comprehensive view not only in what the Ministry of the Interior will suggest, whether the Prime Minister, because it is necessary for individual ministries to communicate with each other in this area to see to it and give the Ministry of the Interior sufficient influence to adapt to the other departments of the interior and the concept as such. We need a little time for that, I don't say for years, I think that no one would want to, but certainly for months, and it would therefore be good for us to discuss this law more precisely and not under time pressure. I agree with what the chairman of the Economic Committee has said. Let's get back to it. Or what Mr. Fiedler here said. Let's go back to that and devote more time to this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-007-999.u11	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is applying to the merged general debate. It's not like that. And before I conclude the debate, I ask Mr Fiedler whether this proposal applies to both laws, I suppose it is because we are in a merged debate. That's right. Thank you. At this point, I am ending the general debate and interrupting this point. [[reciprocally incorporated]] Let's go back to the point
