ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended /the House Print 843/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to present to you a draft law amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment, which was prepared in agreement with the European Commission to ensure the implementation of ten key transport projects with the opinion of the EIA under Act 244/1992 Coll., the so-called old EIA. And we all know what I'm talking about. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the implementation of selected key transport structures, for which an opinion was issued on the impact assessment, hereinafter referred to as the EIA opinion, according to previous environmental legislation, this is the so-called Law 244/1992 Coll. For the so-called priority projects defined in the newly inserted section 23a, a special scheme is introduced, under which the competent authority, in this case the Ministry of the Environment, will issue a binding opinion on the effects of the current technical solution of the project on the environment. The opinion will have a limited validity of five years and will be one of the supporting documents for issuing the decision in subsequent proceedings, in this case it will be a building permit. With regard to the selection of those priority transport projects, the heading of these priority transport projects is defined in the draft law by four characters, which must be valid cumulatively. These are the following characters. The projects that are located on the trans-European transport network, or, say, the carriers to them, this is the so-called TEN-T network, and the projects for which the territorial decision was issued by 31 March 2015 at the latest, i.e. the new amendment 39/2015, for c, or third, for which a favourable opinion has been issued on the environmental impact assessment under Law 244, that is the opinion that will be issued by the Ministry of the Environment, and fourth, which is set by the Government by its regulation, which should follow the approval of this Act. Part of the bill is also a proposal for a government regulation, which will be submitted to the government if the bill is approved. I would like to stress that the selection of these projects was proposed by the Road and Motorway Directorate and the Railway Infrastructure Administration, together with the Ministry of Transport, of course, and the selection of these projects was selected, respectively. was also communicated within the working group of negotiators, including the Prime Minister. And I'm sure you've noticed today that the Prime Minister crowned the long-term effort today by agreeing with the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. These are therefore transport projects, i.e. those absolutely crucial, which also satisfy the fact that, in the case of decisions on them and the issuing of building permits, they are at such a stage of preparation that the implementation of these projects can begin during the next year in the case of the issuing of building permits. It is a construction of D3 bypass of České Budějovice, section Úsilné - Hodějovice and Hodějovice - Třebonín, bypasses on D6 municipalities Řevničov, Lubenec, Krušovice, bypass Nové Strašecí, D48 Frýdek-Místek bypass, D35 Opatovice - Ostrov, section Opatovice - Times and Times - Island, D49 Hulín - Fryšták, D55 Otrokovice bypass, D11 Hradec Králové - Smiřice, I/11 Ostrava, extended Rudná, section D1 Říkovice - Přerov and modernization of the railway line Sudoměřice - Votice. [[15.40 hours]] I would like to stress that despite the enormous efforts of the entire negotiating group, the Prague Circuit fell off the list, respectively. Section 511. But I would like to stress that it did not fall out of the priority objectives of implementation, but that at this point it fell out of those projects that are financed from European money, i.e. in this first group, for the following reasons. Unlike all the other ten events, this building unfortunately does not have a territorial decision, which was Prague, respectively. the project has been cancelled or withdrawn twice in history. Furthermore, it is not ready for construction at the moment, and therefore it is not financed from European Union funds, i.e. from OPD2 funds, because the implementation is real at first from 2019 or 2020. It must also be said that this section has been burdened, in the opinion of the European Commission, by an excessive or enormous number of complaints, objections and protests that have arrived at the European Commission in DG Envi from various associations, from various NGOs, civil associations, etc. At this point, I would like to say that if this law were approved under Section 90, that is, at first reading, which I would like to ask you to do, then I would say the following procedure, when on 14 July we would like to present this amendment to the Senate. If the Senate is approved, it may subsequently be signed by the President of the Republic until approximately 15 August. And by the end of August, because there are still two government negotiations by the end of August, the government could issue, virtually. issue government regulations to which these projects would be approved. The Ministry of Environment is prepared if it receives documentation from the Ministry of Transport, respectively. The Road and Motorway Directorate shall issue a binding opinion on these 10 projects within two months of receipt of these documents. So we assume that if everything goes well, by the end of October of this year at the latest, these binding opinions could be issued, which will then serve as a basis for issuing a building permit. For the above reasons, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you that this proposal, this amendment, be approved in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I will try briefly to sum up what concerns the draft. The Minister has explained this quite extensively, and why it is presented. Basically, it is a simple amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where a new § 23a is introduced, which sets out and justifies the term priority transport plan, where there are parameters for this term. In addition, it introduces the so-called. the competent authority issuing the opinion, which is the Ministry. It also sets out the power or delegate powers for the government to set out a list of priority transport projects in the Government's regulation. So much in brief. It's a bit unsystemic, given the law, but it's probably necessary at the moment. This draft also includes a proposal for this regulation with an annex, where the various important transport projects are presented. There's a total of ten of them. And there's a limit so that it can't be extended any longer, so there's a limit for transport projects when the deadline is 31. 3. 2015 for the validity of the territorial decision for specific projects. The others can't be included. So that's what this amendment is about, and that's it for me right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering several applications. Mr Laudát will be the first to speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, so we're meeting here after perhaps more than six-eight months of struggle. Because if you recall, my colleague Kučera stopped by here when I put it mildly above the fact that no one is paying attention to the problem we have, and that is an invalid assessment of the environmental impact documentation, as the Minister said here. We then tried several times in March, in April, in May to place the item at the House meeting. You, as a coalition, rejected it, and after my colleague Stanjura's fourth or fifth attempt in this series failed to do so, we have reached the point that we have initiated an extraordinary meeting that, if this point passes, as I assume it will pass, I would consider at this point that the purpose of an extraordinary meeting has been fulfilled and that we should agree here that we will close it here. The one you've got in front of you. I'm quite skeptical of how the legal design is done. I say in advance, realize that this is an unprecedented bill that can even harm or deny the constitutional rights of the citizens concerned, no one has ruled that out for me. Please note that this breaks both European legislation and Czech legislation. This is dealing with an urgent situation which I believe the Prime Minister of this government and the ministers responsible for this have put us in. Minister Brabec, of course. And while I know and have been given a seven- or eight-page overview of what steps, which group, what was done, we have long called for the need to act at the highest level in Brussels, i.e. at the level of the Prime Minister. I wonder if the tens of billions weren't worth the Prime Minister picking up his body when I put it politely, and he went to Brussels to act, for example, two years ago, three years ago, when this government started working, etc. But that's probably gonna stay unanswered. About the language. When we had a consultation with the Minister yesterday, I stopped at this and at Czech conditions with a very unusual legal language. I was told that this is what the European Union wants. So be it. We've already mentioned that from the constructions, because the original list included the 11th whole. It's technically divided by more buildings than the ten you have there. But I'm not gonna run all the information because there are some of them combined, so it's a little bit better than it might seem at first sight. However, the key construction fell out and this is construction 511, which is a construction on the Prague Circuit, which connects when I walk from the southeast, the existing part of the Prague Circuit between the Pilsen D5 motorway and the Brno D1. And the 511 section is connected to this construction and ends up in the village of Běchovice. If there is a more important building today that doesn't exist in the Czech Republic, I mean road construction, it's this communication. For one simple reason. There's talk of a trans-European network, so they're two categories. It is the core, core, where only two corridors pass through the Czech Republic. One is number 4, which starts in Stockholm, Scandinavia, continues through Berlin, Dresden, Prague on Brno, Bratislava, Budapest, Belgrade and ends, I think, in Istanbul. At the same time, in the area of the capital city of Prague, this corridor has branch 4A, which leads to Plzeň and Nuremberg and Munich. [[15.50 hours]] The other one, that's when I take it negative, from the north to the south of Moravia. The others, then it's the inferior group. And I must say that all the buildings there, with the exception of one, are on the lower group, are not on the key trans-European corridors. So during the discussions, I was worried if it was any different when it was referred to as a condition that it was on the trans-European transport network. I've been assured that I haven't. But back to 511. The 500 is important for several reasons. For one thing, she connects the majority, or if she did exist, she would connect most of the motorways, because today we no longer have the expressway, which leads to Prague, that is, it starts with the finished sections at Ruzyna D7, it continues through the Karlovy Vary D6, then it is D5 from Pilsen, then it is Strakonická D4, then it is Pankrácké radiála and then D1, then it is D11 - the Hradec motorway, then it is on Mladá Boleslav D10 and actually after four lane communication there would be a connection, even if still internal Prague, but still only the outer corridor on the Teplice or Ústecký D8. Moreover, there is a huge or large proportion of the most difficult freight transport - for one simple reason. First of all, it connects a number of motorways that I have named here, and second of all, it is actually a link that drives industrial products from perhaps the most industrialized areas of the Czech Republic, which is Cologne, Mladá Boleslav, which means cars are installed everywhere. Then there are a number of segments from the engineering industry in the eastern part of today's Central Bohemia Region. Then, of course, it also captures the transport of goods from Hradecek, Pardubicka etc. etc. If this road existed, it would also contribute at the same time, even if a large part of D35 is still missing between Opatovice and Olomouc or Litovli, it would also redistribute transport throughout the Czech Republic and also redistribute transport on the Prague Circuit. Unfortunately, today one of the key Central European transport corridors runs an internal city. This is realized after Štěrboholské radiále, it is realized on the South Connector, on the street on May 5th, it runs on Pankrácké radiále and actually continues on to D1. Every car that goes this way, whether freight or personal, is ten kilometers more than it would have been on the planned track of the 500. It is a huge policy for Prague, because with less or more intensity the importance of this part of the circuit in conjunction with what has been done in recent periods and historically even in the era of socialism, the absence of this construction means that the unpleasant effects of car transport are, according to some estimates, 300 people are affected with different intensity, according to some larger studies of up to 400,000 people. I note that the outer circuit, the Prague circuit, as the official name with a large P, does not work and the traffic or transport around Prague is only a small part, it has mainly about 75 percent - it used to be so, I don't know if the calculations have been made a little bit more precise - to transfer the city transport, to absorb the traffic, which means that even this passenger transport within the city remains in the street network. Therefore, I will not surprise you, the TOP 09 position will be such that, of course, we will not be in favour of the veto of paragraph 90. For another thing, if the Minister is here to reassure, Mr Sobotka is already calling a press conference, as I have seen somewhere - Juncker agrees. Juncker's consent does not necessarily mean that DG Envi has to agree to this, but we also actively do this risk because we do not want to harm and we want to participate in the search for any routes, not only to build the necessary communications in the Czech Republic and the one railway, so that the Czech construction industry does not fall dramatically further, so we will raise our hand for it. We hope that you will be so responsible - and I very much miss Minister Šlechtová here to give us her opinion on this form of law - however, I hope that you will be so responsible and will proceed in such a way that there is no potential threat to the drawing of all the hard operational programmes for this programming period, where it is played by 650 billion. Crowns. And I would challenge you very much because in Prague really, and you've already heard something about it, I'm not a fan of any poses, because forbidding traffic, if I don't have a replacement, it won't just pay the carriers, it would be the least I can do, but it could put the companies down. We are here in the past, now I speak for the Pragueans, also threatened the state to act faster in the matter of road construction around Prague. It didn't happen, and I know for myself what the Prague authorities can afford and what they can't afford. However, I would also like you to pay attention to the fact that I would like to vote on the accompanying resolution, which I am allowing you to read here, once again, and then I would read it in detail before the vote. The resolution would be: 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic expressed its deep concern that it would be necessary to repeat the environmental impact assessment process for the D0 project - because they were tilting, so that it would be quite obvious and we were in the intensities - road circuit around Prague 511, section D1 - Běchovice, which will delay the implementation of this key construction. [[R1]] 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic considers the current situation when trans-European transport is carried out on local roads. m. Prague, in a situation having serious negative effects on the health and quality of people and the environment in places affected by current transport. 3. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to make every effort to eliminate this negative condition, to secure the necessary funds and to launch the D0 road circuit around Prague as quickly as possible, construction 511, section D1 - Běchovice. [[R1]] 4. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of Transport to inform the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic once every quarter of a year about the process of preparing this construction. I would dare you, it's not aggressive, it's not an offensive resolution that I want to declassify you here. Of course, I could write a whole series of others, a whole series of harder ones, where I could also touch the person responsible for this situation. I'm not doing this, and I'm begging you, we're gonna head for the hl. m. Prague and the Prague authorities in the southeast and east of Prague and the surrounding municipalities have sent out a clear signal that this event will be a priority and that the government will use all the proper and, where appropriate, legislative means of emergency to do so and, where appropriate, ensure state resources, national resources, so that the construction of this important segment of the Prague Circuit begins tomorrow if possible. Thank you very much and I would like to ask that we at least adopt this resolution in the direction of the construction. [[16.00 hours]] As far as you have any comments about this, but I really want it to be a broad consensus, because I point out that regional and Senate elections are coming up. I think at least that's what you should all sign up for. It will change your lives for all of you, because you all go to Prague and from any direction. It will help Prague most. I really want it not to be an empty phrase on the Economic Committee, with the fact that I would expect the first information there sometime in early September. The Minister is nodding, isn't he? And that would depend on three months of cycles where we would receive written information and possibly resolve the situation. I'm just pointing out that I'm not gonna hesitate, and the moment it's clear that you're not taking enough managerial dramatic steps to speed up the preparation, I'm gonna be looking for signatures again to call an emergency meeting, like I did last time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. Today, from 20 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Pavel Havíř apologizes for reasons of work and also from 16 o'clock cancels Mrs Hnyková's apology. I will ask you, Mr Laudát, to give me the motion for an accompanying resolution in writing, because I have not been able to note it, and we will continue with the general debate. Mrs Semelová is another duly applied for. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I would like to follow up on Mr Laudát. I would also like to comment on the selection of priority buildings, respectively. to one construction that fell off the list, and this is the Prague Circuit. On 4 December 2014 I intersected Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the completion of the external road circuit, which is to take transit car transport from internal Prague. There is no point in convincing ourselves that this is an urgent need for the capital, where tens of thousands of cars and trucks come or go from abroad. These cars and trucks come from the most busy D1 motorway with the intention to continue northwards or back eastwards. Due to the absence of a bypass, it must enter Prague directly and use Spořilovská, South and Štěrboholská connection. This, of course, complicates transport in the metropolis and significantly burden the environment. Citizens, in particular, of the urban areas concerned, have long complained about noise, air pollution emissions and other problems that cause health problems for urban residents. They are currently signing another petition in which they are demanding, and rightly demanding, an accelerated solution. I do not think that the problems I mention need to be discussed widely. Even the Prime Minister met them personally when he spoke to the citizens of Spořilov during his campaign. In his pre-election speech and at the subsequent press conference, he also willingly promised concrete assistance in solving this problem, including funding. He confirmed his pre-election vow here in the House in response to my interpelation. In May of this year, the government included the Prague Circuit among the priority buildings as well as the transport section of the government memorandum. This means that for these priority buildings, the EIA process will be based on the current project documentation already prepared and will not start from scratch. The construction of 511 D1 - Běchovice, a building that connects the Prague circuit to D1 before Prague and cars with cars will not have to go to Prague at all, not only the citizens of Spořilova welcomed the fact that the construction of 511 D1 - Běchovice was included in the list of priority buildings. However, a cold shower followed. The Minister of the Environment excluded this construction from the priority buildings, which means that the whole EIA process must be repeated. This will delay the start of the construction by two to four years, and the problem with its financing may also deepen. I'm sure everyone can imagine the effects. The inhabitants of Prague, the visitors of the metropolis and the passing drivers will be affected. The need for completion of the missing part of the Prague Circuit was supported this week by the mayors of the southeastern Prague city districts. The aim of the meeting was to agree on a further procedure for the completion of the 511 communication in a shortened procedure. I stress once again that the completion of this missing part of the Prague Circuit is important for ease of transport not only in the southeast part of Prague, but literally in the whole metropolis. Further communications, such as Hostivařská spojka, follow the completion of the Prague Circuit, and it also affects Dolní Měcholup, Štěrbohol, Dubče, Prague 15, Prague 22 and Petrovic. Overall, there are 16 municipalities with more than 80,000 inhabitants. At the same time, if Prague forbids the entry of trucks into the city, it will be significantly worse in the part of the Central Bohemia Region. For the reasons that I have stated, I therefore propose that the construction of the Prague Circuit 511, i.e. section D1 - Běchovice, be classified as priority buildings again. If there is no will, we will support all the steps that will lead to an accelerated completion, i.e. including the resolution with which we were just informed here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u9	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová, and we continue the debate with Mr Michal Kučera. Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Let me also briefly comment on this point, on the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. I think that everything relevant has already been said here by my previous speaker and colleague Mr. František Laudát. I would perhaps add some of the observations that I think are necessary to realise the full scope and impact of the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Today we saw that Prime Minister Sobotka at his press conference quite pompously announced that he had saved billions and significant transport structures in the Czech Republic. Yes, that's true indeed. I would like to point out that these are only ten transport buildings from almost hundreds of transport buildings and that Prime Minister Sobotka is now putting out the fire caused by Minister Brabec. Of course, I do not want to make a direct comment that at first more or less the inability to negotiate will stop hundreds of transport constructions and then it is quite pompous to say that those buildings, that we saved ten of them. I think we should do this, especially from the government, with greater humility. I would like to refer here to the explanatory report on this press, and I will mention some of the numbers that I think are important for us to realise the extent to which transport structures are stopped and what this means for the Czech Republic. The reason message, now I quote from it, says: If there is no solution for these selected buildings with the opinion of EIA issued under Act No. 244/1992 Coll., whose readiness is at the most advanced stage, will be established in 2016-2018 in the initial transport constructions, i.e. delay of almost ready constructions, which have been planned for this period. It also says: In general, it is more than 100 transport infrastructure structures per more than 230 billion. CZK, but at different stages of preparation. [[16.10 hours]] What I'm saying is that today, with this law, out of those hundred constructions of transport infrastructure for over 230 billion. We're saving ten. Out of 100 buildings for 230 billion. We're saving ten today. It has already been said that there is a list of the ten priority buildings selected according to a key. It sounded here, and I think it was quite clearly correct that constructions such as the Prague Circuit fell out of it, which are absolutely important and absolutely crucial. I am therefore surprised by some press releases issued by members of the ANO movement. The press release reads, for example: The unfinished bypass was ranked among priority buildings in the Czech Republic thanks to the members of the ANO movement. Members of Martin Kolovratník and David Kasal, both of the ANO movement, managed to enforce the inclusion, etc. So, of course, I don't want to question how the ten buildings were selected. But please nicely, the YES movement itself then doubts how the constructions were selected, whether it was really based on the lobbying of individual Members, or on the criteria that Minister Brabec said here. I believe that it outweighed the criteria and this is merely some promotion from Mr Kolovratník. Of course, the mistakes were also with the previous government, and I do not, of course, resist that, and I certainly do not say that everything falls only on this government. But if we talk about our term of office, that is. The meeting of Prime Minister Sobotka was to take place at the time when an amendment to the Environmental Act was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. That is, at the time when we were discussing this here in the Chamber of Deputies, and when Minister Brabec told us that no construction would be stopped, Prime Minister Sobotka should have gone to Brussels and actually negotiated the exceptions he is negotiating today. That means where the mistake came from. In my opinion, the first mistake arose at the time that Minister Brabec should have clearly identified at the time of the hearing and pointed out that the approval of this law would put an end to the transport constructions. That's what Minister Brabec was supposed to say two years ago. If that were to be said, Prime Minister Sobotka could have gone to Brussels two years ago and he could have negotiated. Perhaps he would have negotiated significantly more than today. He saved ten out of 100 buildings today. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. I say again, I'm talking about this election term. The other one is only for me to judge from the outside. As Mr Laudát said, TOP 09 will support this law by gnashing its teeth. We know we're moving on the edge. We know that there are risks that a colleague has already mentioned, and I will no longer mention them, and I believe that the government is prepared to eliminate these risks as much as possible. I believe that we will manage the ten transport structures from the hundred transport buildings that are stopped today, so at least the ten will be able to save and start building. I would like to point out that among the other about 90 buildings that will not be built, for example. absolutely critically endangered motorway D7, Chomutov - Louny - Prague, which has one of the biggest accidents in the Czech Republic, where there are almost the most fatal accidents in the Czech Republic. This is not one of the priority buildings and its delay will be in about a few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister... [[After a while, given the Minister's inattentiveness:]] Dear Minister, my first words will lead to you. I listened very carefully to your opening words... I listened very carefully to your opening words, and I must say that this was a very good speech by a crisis manager who knows exactly what caused it, knows exactly what steps to take, and knows exactly when to take these steps and how to implement them. Unfortunately, this speech lacked the self-esteem that was made by a man whose ministry has most of the butter on his head. Not only in this House has there been words for a long time about problems with transport structures in the context of EIA discussions. These words also sounded at the edges, which are marked as to what is being done. My Moravian-Silesian region is one of the affected regions. I'll allow myself a politically incorrect insertion here. Thanks to Minister Bárta, predecessor, xx predecessor of Minister Ťok as head of Transport Constructions, the Moravian-Silesian Region lost tens of billions of crowns within the closed constructions. This money will no longer appear in our budget. I wonder, then, whether Mr Bárta will ever - here I will say - a group of colonels will prosecute for these damages, which are clearly mapped and clearly documented on the Czech economy. This ignorant decision from the green table without any arguments cost us billions and it also cost us to start these problems with the EIA. Because most of the buildings we are talking about today are buildings that could have been completed long ago and would not have fallen under this regime of the European Union. To avoid stretching this issue, since December of last year the Representation of the Moravian-Silesian Region sent out an official position with its resolution to the Government for a request for action by the Ministry against Minister Ťok and the Minister of the Environment to take steps to prevent the Moravian-Silesian Region from being affected. They repeatedly sent this request two months later, in February. Again, nothing has been done by both ministries. Except for the March request, already desperate, was responded by the Ministry of Environment. Yet, to this day, the Ministry of the Environment has not started systematically, I would say systemicly, to address this issue within the framework of the general rules for the issue of verification opinions. These rules are, in my opinion, owed to the regions and should start making them known very quickly, because these are rules that are able to move this issue across the board. Furthermore, the Ministry should declare - I will call it in quotation marks - extenuating circumstances for issuing verification opinions for constructions under the 1992 Act. These are the laws before we joined the European Union. These buildings are often already under construction, just before completion, or possibly. they are mostly in a stage of incompleteness for various property rights reasons. Verification opinion on the basis of these two documents, i.e. both those in quotation marks mitigating circumstances and the general rules should be issued by the Ministry - perhaps already issuing them. I would be very pleasantly surprised if the Minister had told me that they had already been issued. But I fear that the position of the region is more precise and that they are currently in the Ministry of reflection. And the fourth thing that goes forward - and, Minister, I know that you are preparing an amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act - so that, for example, within the framework of the construction law - now I do not think that the amendment would have to deal directly with it - was the authorities and citizens concerned, or the persons concerned, to be specific, given a clear statute for those persons to be parties to the proceedings to be officially covered by all the conditions of both the building law and, if any, by them. the administrative rules. Their uncertain legal position allows them to block constructions today because their status here in these laws is not precisely regulated, and therefore they are out of line with the standards and time standards set by these laws. So much for my contribution. Minister, I hope that at least ten buildings can be implemented and that the promise that has been made here from your mouth will be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u13	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Jan Zahradník now. But before that, Mr Milan Urban's factual remark. Mr. Colleague, I'm gonna ask you to be patient. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u14	Thank you for the floor. I think that the presentation of this amendment is also a lesson for the Minister and for the Government that some things and risks at the moment simply cannot be exceeded. When we were discussing a novel here at the time, some of us said that just as the law was adopted, there is a great risk of Czech construction stopping. And now I don't want to say it's some kind of satisfaction. Unfortunately, it's become a reality, and today we have this novel. However, I would nevertheless like to thank the Minister for deciding, at a time of twelve and one minute, to make quite a big effort, along with the Prime Minister or the Minister of Transport, and to resolve the situation largely with this amendment and negotiations in Brussels. So I just wanted to remind you about the different laws that we never take lightly the risks that are mentioned in this discussion and that are known. Because then the subsequent effort may be greater than redoing the original form. But thank God it's here. I think that if the Prague Circle were there, we would basically accept the correction without any problems. The Prague Circle really is a problem, and there are other ways to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Zahradník has now duly signed up for a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now putting out a fire here that was actually set here two and a half years ago when the new EIA Act began to be discussed here. And then whoever had the matches in their hands said it wouldn't be that bad. We warned him that everything could really happen, that what is happening now will eventually come to be provided by the EU graciously with the money that it threatened us to withdraw. But we said there wouldn't be anything to spend the money on, because no construction will be allowed, no construction will pass the new strict law. Well, thank God for that. Minister, when we called for the Prime Minister to come to Brussels to negotiate, so that you would go to Brussels to negotiate, Minister Took, you sent there at the very first time, when everything could still be saved, sub-alternative officials who were unable to negotiate. So in the end, it came down to the fact that the buildings are really stopped. The worst forecasts have come to a hundred percent, and now we have to sort it out somehow. So there's this proposal, there's these ten buildings. There are about 90 buildings left that have the old EIA under Act No. 244/1992 Sb., which is not on that list. These need to be done, they also need to be enforced, because they are of course in national interest, as is the Prague Circuit, such as the continuation of the construction of the D3 motorway from České Budějovice towards the state border with Austria. Because the Rakušan are building, the Rakušan are interested in working with us. What better way to show this from their side than by building a highway that ends 20 km from our borders? If they went all the way to Wullowitz, all the way to that border village, they'd be crazy. So they finished their construction, they say yes, we will continue when the Czech Republic arrives or at least shows a clear intention to build this highway on its southern border to Dolní Dvořiště. I think now we can all be heroes and say so well, let's save those ten buildings. So the question is, what about the other buildings? It's like we're going to Malostranske Square or Prague streets right now and asking people, "What do you think of this problem? They'd say, "If you've got it all wrong with the law like that, do the EIA again." Not just the buildings where it fell for you. But we can't do that. And we all know why. We have given such enormous authority to environmental activists in this new law, what Mr Luzar said, 'the public concerned', these are actually environmental terrorists and activists, who simply now have enormous power at any time in any trial to enter it, stop the construction, stop the plan, at their discretion, to make such decisions. So if we keep going like this, we're really not going to push for any construction here in the future. Of course, I intercede to approve this law, so that we support at least the ten buildings with regard to their significance as such, or also with regard to the construction sector in our country, which has really started to mess up and had nothing to do with. And, of course, I would like to appeal to you, Minister Brabec and the absent Minister Šlechtová, with a call for them to proceed as soon as possible to speed up the preparation of this Act on Integrated Building Management. In my opinion, this law should also open other complicated laws, including the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, and should be modified, regulated by the enormous power given to environmental activists in this law. So I hope that this law will soon be processed, brought here to the House, and that it will be approved as soon as possible in my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u17	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Now two factual points. Mr Herbert Pavera and then Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would just like to comment briefly on the proposal for the amendment. I think maybe we're all happy to have at least something put forward, that at least some of the buildings will be realized. I can say for myself that I am extremely glad that there are two buildings in that list of buildings from our Moravian-Silesian region, whether bypassing Frýdka-Místek or the Long-Term Rudná, because both constructions will definitely improve the quality of the life of citizens in our region. I'm sorry there are no other buildings like the Krnov or Opava bypass, but I understand that they couldn't all be there and that they're not all quite ready as they should be. But I believe that the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport will do their utmost to get as soon as possible all the buildings, which are more than a hundred, Mr Kučera said 100, but there are more than a hundred of them, those buildings that may not actually be implemented now, so I believe that it will soon succeed so that the citizens of our Republic who want to get out of place And to place B as quickly as possible, and especially our businessmen, they could use quality communication. And I will take advantage of the fact that there is still Minister Ťok, who is also concerned, Minister of Transport Ťok, who is also concerned with the construction of roads and motorways. I believe, as he promised, that he would come to Hlučín to deal with the I/56 transposition, that he would live up to his word and that he would come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u19	I thank Mr Herbert Paver and now Mr Michal Kučera. Then with the priority right of Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will only respond very briefly to the words of my previous speaker, whom I very much appreciate, Mr Zahradník, who said that environmental activists, or as terrorists, stopped or stopped the construction of motorways and roads. I mean, at the moment more than a hundred buildings worth more than 230 billion have not stopped either environmental activists or environmental terrorists, but it was Minister Brabec of the ANO movement. I don't know whether to call him an eco-terrorist or an environmental activist, but this time I wouldn't blame environmental activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u22	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, Minister. Well, I've been wondering about the celebratory tone since this morning. You said in your introductory words that the Prime Minister crowned something in Brussels today. Well, that's a very brave statement, and I'm not gonna mess with that word anymore. You used it. Let's try to get the facts straight. A hundred buildings threatened to repeat the EIA. A hundred buildings. You have negotiated that for fourteen, if it is ten sections, and let's say 14 buildings as we know them, as we identify ourselves in the Czech Republic, the EIA does not have to repeat fully under the new law. Well, if it's a success, it's a micro success. At the same time, when we say we're going to support 14 buildings so it's not so complicated, you're going to bury 86 other buildings with the same vote, where it's going to be complicated and where it's going to be delayed. The Prague Circuit argument that it has many opponents - the exact argument of Brussels bureaucrats. Yes, that's right. I already said yesterday at a short meeting, for which I thank you, at which we consulted this bill, that I think it is the second most important building in the Czech Republic. The first is R35, I think that the second motorway connection between Moravian and Czech regions is priority number one and the second most necessary not for Prague, but for the Czech Republic is Prague Circuit. And maybe we shouldn't say 511, that's a very technical one, and maybe the engineering industry knows what it's about, but it's the connection between the Hradec and Brno motorways. Like the section, it's already operational here, connected to the Brno and Pilsner highway. And many who are heading from Moravia or even from Bohemia, from Vysočina, towards Pilsen make it possible not to go to Prague. And the same thing will bring us that much discussed section 511. It is of course a problem of the Czech Republic that it does not have a building permit yet. Or that she's not ready. I understand all that. But in order for optimism not to be too much, there is no risk of using European money for 86 buildings. We cannot build them even from Czech national sources, because there is a threat that if we build them from Czech national sources and we use valid - valid - assessment of the environmental impact of the construction, not only will we stop funding from the Operational Programme Transport 2, but we will stop financing all operational programmes. So if it's a micro success, I don't know. It's more like a big surrender at 86 buildings. And all we can do is guess when time judges us at the other buildings. At the key bypass. And it is quite smiling when your Members say how they pushed through the completion of the bypass, for example. Chrudimi that's not there. And I could name Opava, Krnov and other cities where the EIA will have to repeat itself. And now it will depend on - so euphemistically it's called the public concerned, and if you imagine eco-activists under it, it will depend on their efforts and on how great their ideological resistance to construction will be and how much longer we will extend it. And you're improving these people's conditions. You make it easier for buildings to make it harder, and you call it coming out to the public. I've always said that the voice of people who live in the territory is important. Don't let the activists from Prague tell me how the road in the Moravian-Silesian Region should look like and vice versa. That's true, exactly the same. And often the resistance is really ideological. Of course, it is often a mistake, I speak about it repeatedly, when on the side of designers who simply drew routes in pencil too easily and easily and did not realize that sometimes it would be enough to move the route by 300, 400 meters and we would have much less problems. But the moment you go some way, say in the middle that you're going back to the beginning, you de facto postpone the construction almost indefinitely. And that's the problem. And in celebrating today's victory or the Prime Minister's micro-victim and you ministers, it's really worth reading the tapes from when we were discussing the last novel. You approve, or we won't draw. When many of us said if you approved, we wouldn't be able to draw, so you laughed. Unfortunately, we were right. Again, I repeatedly say that transport is not a typical political issue, given the length of preparation and implementation of the construction, it cannot, because four years after the election it will change absolutely, then nothing will be built. And instead of taking advantage of a situation that is not pleasant to me, when the EU enters, whether it wants or not, whether its leaders think what they want, it enters a new stage where we have a chance to return those competences that belong to the national level to the national level, so as if we are still asking - what about Brussels? And I repeatedly say that we are the EU. It's not them. And where is our voice? Let us imagine using, in another area, the retroactivity that Brusel wants us to have on this particular issue. Where are the advocates of a clear rejection of the principle of retroactivity, whether genuine or false? How come we're not defending ourselves? And we have the means to defend ourselves. Yes, today's situation is as the European Commission says. And we can defend ourselves - well, we can defend ourselves if we want to. Yesterday I told the Minister that we would not block the negotiations of this bill. Even some members of my club will support the law. Especially those who are lucky enough to have buildings from their regions. And it would be pointless to fight such a bill. I have nothing against the accompanying resolution on the Prague Circuit. But I'm wondering what's going to happen to the other buildings. I would like the government to continue to try to reverse the principle of retroactivity in other buildings. And I think there will be important decisions at European level that will require the approval of all Member States. So let us be like many other EU members. Let's say yes, we support this if you support us with this, for example. And I think we agree that it is in the Czech national interest that we build constructions. So that we ourselves have a chance to prepare them, finance them, and build them. And we don't need wisdom from anywhere else. I just think that the EIA is a matter that could be dealt with at national level. I see no reason. Of course, and it's a matter of experience again. Those who have already built road communications are now playing with it and tightening the conditions. How were the strict conditions when highways were built in Western Europe? What EIA did she pay at the time? And why did we choose such a strict version when we have already implemented the directive? Why do we always have to be the first on the tape that we're even tougher than we have to be? This is a mistake that has happened, and today we will remove a little from the error. Nothing more, nothing less. That's good, but let's think about 86 other buildings. Let us think about other regions and other cities that have long waited for their communication, their bypasses. And at this point, it looks like they're gonna have to wait not two or three years to get building permits and money, but maybe six or eight or ten years. I think that's the task that begins today immediately after the adoption of this bill, so that we focus on the others, of course. [[16.40 hours]] In two and a half years, I've heard many times here from the ministers' mouth how they're preparing to simplify the construction law and the licensing process. I'm a little skeptical today because I'm saying it's very complicated. It's not easy. But I don't think anything is done. There is no communication with the opposition on how to unite and simplify in this area. And if we want - and I don't have a problem - to allow public access to these trials, please, once. Not when the principles of territorial development, the zoning plan, the EIA, the zoning permit, the zoning decision and the building permit are being discussed. That's the endless process. Then we look like the ones who aren't able to build the communications. We are talking about roads, but there are also some railroad constructions at risk, so that we don't forget about it in the list of hundreds of buildings. So today, I think, the work we've done to correct the mistake that has happened, for which I think the Minister of the Environment has full responsibility to remove it for the future. Nothing ends today, nothing's today, no one's crowning anything today. He admitted it was a mistake at the most, and 14 percent, when I say it in absolute numbers of constructions, I don't want to go into numbers and investment, maybe he'll fix it. [[unintelligible]] I was asked a question today, and that was a bad interpretation from the media, if it is true that no one will take European money for construction anymore. Well, it's not true. They just said we had a chance to get them. That doesn't mean we're getting the money. And the last thing I'm gonna do is end my act. I told Minister Took last year and year before that we should start a serious debate on how we will finance transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic after 2022, when nothing will be from the European Union, zero euros. They may as well tell us what laws we should have. Zero. And I think the solution has to be arranged across the political spectrum because it won't be easy. It was eight years ago last year. It's been six years today, you might think it's a long time. It wasn't long ago. It's not long before we change the funding system. And that's the second task we have to do. And I say, together. It is not a matter of one political representation, one government coalition, not one electoral term. I'm gonna end with the bill being passed today. I believe that colleagues in the Senate will discuss this quickly. Yesterday, I heard it should apply from 1. 10. I think the term is too far away. If the Senate discusses this - I don't know, I think he has a meeting sometime in mid-July - then the President can sign it by the end of July, and it can begin to follow the law. That's all that's paying for. Work doesn't stop, we haven't crowned anything, on the contrary, work begins. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u23	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, Mrs Helena Válková's factual comment and a colleague Karel Šidlo will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u24	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, this will indeed be a factual point. A few sentences, I hope. Maybe somebody doesn't trust me to do this right now. I would just like to reassure your colleague Stanjura that there is definitely a debate going on across the political parties and with the so-called public concerned. I myself had the opportunity to take part in negotiations that took place in the presence of the interested public and mayors of Prague 11, 15 and 22, where opinions were presented in a totally slim minority for the benefit of those who question the need for the completion of the Prague Circuit. On that occasion, on the other hand, I felt that unisona, regardless of membership of a political party, the vast majority of those looking for other ways, i.e. the means of drawing from national funds, got space, and it was quite constructive discussion. So I'm not worried that, first of all, we wouldn't be having a debate about it, about the concrete projects, when I'm already talking about the Prague one, and secondly, that we would somehow share into different factions. I hope that this will also be proof of the accompanying resolution, which is prepared and which may be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies and will be read once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u25	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. I will ask Mr Šidl's colleague to be patient, there is still a factual remark from Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u26	Thank you. I understand, Professor. She's running for Senate in the district there. That's true, but I'm not going to. But feel free to find yourself, if the professor here, not to speak directly, wasn't, by any chance, when your club killed one attempt after another, to push the government, actually from February, March, April or November of last year. One thing is then pre-election beauty and pirouettes, the other thing is really - you've been killing for nothing here to push the government significantly earlier. I actually hang a question mark. And I don't want to put it tonight, I don't have the energy to do it anymore, but remember, what's happening today could have happened three years ago or at least two years ago. It's just that Minister Babiš is giving out doughnuts over there, I don't know where he's going again, actually I haven't seen him here this week, and then it looks like this. As far as the information is concerned, as I imagined from Minister Took, I'm warning you that at the moment when he writes down such writings as he does on electronic tolls, I think I'm going to throw it at his head. That's what I'm saying. It's just really nothing. I want it to be especially, and I'm saying it in advance, it's a timetable, and once every quarter of a year, it's been ticked off as it's fulfilled. With the assumption that you do what you want to do, you can decide in the government about early purchase of land with a certain risk, I think that the action police might no longer interfere, and with a certain risk we will stand behind you in this case, but I want you to finally start building a 500, and the Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u27	Your time for a point of fact is over, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Zahradník and Mr Pilný's factual remark. Now, my colleague, the Zahradník, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u28	Vice-President, thank you. I just came here for a little while to comment on what my colleague Kučera said. I didn't say the current situation was caused by environmental activists. I certainly didn't say that. The situation was caused by those of you who voted in favour of the law, who lit the fire that day, and now they're coming in with buckets of water and trying to put it out. Well, when it burns, every help is good, I'm grateful. I'm asking you to vote positive in this case. I was just saying that environmental activists have all the other processes under the new EIA Act, which you approved here and where they can really block the new processes that are going to happen at any time. That's what I was gonna say. I also looked to the Minister for a significant revision in this regard. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u29	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now a colleague, Ivan Pilný, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say, in the context of objectivity - I am not running anywhere for a senator, nor in the regional elections - that Mr Laudát realizes that the Committee on Economic Affairs has issued a number of resolutions on a number of occasions. The same applies to the Committee on European Affairs, where I was a member and where I initiated a resolution, which specifically called on the Prime Minister to be active in this matter. So it's not exactly true that we're not doing anything about it. These meetings were attended by Mr Laudát. So only within objectivity. But I'm saying, I'm not running anywhere, I'm just stating the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Šidlo, the last member of the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have also come to the floor, but I am coming to be very brief in discussing this amendment to the Environmental Act, rather with a statement on what we have come to because as a KSČM MP - because yesterday I was the envoy who attended the seminar by the Minister of Environment, where the Minister of Transport was also involved. We have long been one of the critics of the implementation of all transport structures in the Czech Republic, and when the unpleasant situation with inappropriate and perhaps very late application of European directives has come to the legislation for which the environment is responsible, and it has to do with the environmental impact assessment of individual buildings, we obviously had an enormous interest in helping to get the muddy waters in some way in the Czech Republic. Because, as has already been mentioned here from colleagues in various forms, the period from intention to preparation to the implementation of the construction in the Czech Republic is calculated for several decades and never contributes not only to the solution of the transport situation but also to the satisfaction of citizens in the locality of improving their living conditions. [[16.50 hours]] We heard it yesterday, or I heard it, and I reproduced it to the MP's club, a whole bunch of information about what was going to happen. Of course, we also had the concerns that were raised here. It was that, of course, we consider the ten selected buildings without the bypass of Prague between D1 and D11 to be a very small success, which may not even be a success. It really depends on how the Ministry of the Environment will adopt another amendment to the Environmental Act and will maintain 86 other buildings, which are also covered by the old EIA opinion, and therefore cannot be continued in the preparation of the construction and issuing of the building permit. So we have heard these things, we have received certain assurances from the Minister of the Environment and also from the Minister of Transport on how to proceed with other constructions, how to address the issue of verification of the EIA's individual initial opinions on the transport constructions. I want to believe that in front of the witnesses, the gentlemen have not lied to us until the end of this House's term of office, and that they will keep those words. I am pleased that my colleague Laudát has tabled an accompanying resolution which, in its own way, limits the ministries to report regularly to the Economic Committee as representatives of the Chamber of Deputies on how to proceed in a promise that was linked to the continuation of the part of the bypass between D1 and D11 around Prague. We have decided not only to block, we will support the 90th as such to discuss this amendment of the law. We will also support the amendment to this law. We see it as a minimum. We think there might have been more, but on the other hand, we don't want to be the ones blocking it. We want to believe that although - I will modify a little bit what my colleague Urban said - it is not a minute after 12 p.m., but for us it is at least half an hour after 12 p.m. when these things have been dealt with for a long time, so I think it can help to move the whole system around. And if the amendments to the law come, if the Ministry of Transport continues as we were guaranteed by the other buildings yesterday, we can see in this perspective that other buildings will also get the necessary documents to continue their preparation and start them, and I believe that there are still a number of them in this period. The question of funding is second. And if my colleague Stanjura here was talking about someone wanting to crown something today, I would very much like it to be the only success of this day that this amendment will be adopted, it will be adopted by the majority or by all the entities in the Chamber of Deputies and we will make it clear that we want the transport structures in the Czech Republic to continue, and we will, of course, continue to keep a tight eye on all, not just the ten. And for the last time, let me make a little comment on that. I do not know whether the elimination of the continuation of the Prague bypass between D1 and D11 preceded the ban on parking in Malostranské náměstí or Malostranské náměstí before stopping this bypass. I'll leave it to everyone else to consider. It would be quite a natural reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u33	I thank Mr Karel Šidl. There is still an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Jeroným Tejc from 16.30 to the end of the day. And now I have no application, I am ending the debate. The final words of the Minister and the rapporteur, if he also wants to have the final word, can be prepared. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I don't make a wave of more factual remarks with these reactions, and believe that they'll be... [[President: I have already concluded the debate, Minister.]] Believe that they will be very constructive. First of all, I would like to assure Mr Laudát that the legal structure, however useful it may seem to us, has been approved by the Government Legislative Council, we have discussed it with constitutional lawyers, has also been approved by the European Commission. We wouldn't have put her here without it. And, of course, those remedies that you mentioned that the public might be denied some rights, so of course those remedies will be possible and will be within the framework of a building permit. But those would be possible under a building permit anyway, always. To Mrs Semelová, by your means, Mr President. Believe me, my colleague, I regretted a hundred times going to the government press conference where I informed the European Commission that it had knocked out the Prague circuit because it was living its own life, that Brabec had knocked it out. brabec definitely didn't take him out. This nonsense was recycled in the media several times afterwards. And I'd like to swear here, folks, just declare that we fought until the last moment for the Prague Circle to stay there. There are x witnesses, including Prime Minister Prouza, or State Secretary Prouza, but unfortunately the European Commission has told us quite clearly: either you will have nothing or you will have ten buildings without the Prague Circuit. However, I would like to assure everyone that we will do everything possible to ensure that the Prague Circle will go in some special mode. He did not fall out of priority buildings, he fell out of only priority buildings financed by the European Commission, because there was still little chance of European money, virtually. However, there was a small chance that he would have been financed from European money, because he would probably have been built at the end of the OPD2 operational programme. It remains a key building for us. I'm saying it a little bit now - the Minister of Transport should say it, but I'll take the liberty of saying it for him. It certainly remains a key building. And for the Ministry of the Environment, I'm saying that we're definitely going to do everything we can to keep him between the priority structures, and I believe we can find a special regime for him. So the Prague Circle certainly doesn't look or didn't fall out of those priority events. I completely understand all those who perceive its importance. Of course, I see her too. And I invited Prague, Deputy Minister Dolínek, who was a rather loud critic, and the mayor, to make friends with all the mayors of the city and go to Brussels together. That would be very helpful. I say that without all the irony, because there's actually a lot of different groups raining on each other when some people want it, some people don't want it. If there was a single front around Prague that says "it's important to us," it would be very helpful in terms of approval. Mr. Mr. Kučera. I wouldn't worry about it at this point. I think that Mr Kučera must be in a certain schizophrenia, which I think is difficult to bear, because on the one hand, he knows well, and he is certainly bombarded by a number of environmental organisations that say that this procedure is wrong, that the ten priority projects should not be approved. And I know that my colleague Kučera is in close contact with them, and that's why it's hard to say that the actions should actually be approved quickly, because what we're going to talk about, they're really 14 or 15 years old here, and I think those NGOs are right about something. I'm sure in that history, ten years ago, everything didn't go so well, and let's just say the approval wasn't exactly kosher. It was by the old rules, of course, but they're long gone by now. I think that the possibility, and I also respond to Mr Stanjura by your means, Mr President, is that we have managed to unblock ten or fourteen buildings at this point in time for 50 billion. CZK of that amount, and it's those buildings where there would really be delays if they couldn't be built, because they're ready, they have bought out the land. For the remaining buildings, the situation is completely different and Mr Stanjura knows it well. That can be confirmed by the Minister of Transport. There are a number of events that they may not even have, or in many cases they have no territorial decision at all, they are not bought out and their preparation will take many years and would take many years. [[17,00 hours]] For these events it is fully possible to drive the processes in parallel, i.e. do the preparation of the EIA, because we don't go back to point zero on those buildings. No way. Those buildings that already have territorial decisions can be expected to complete the EIA and, on the basis of the supplemented EIA - I've already caused at least one reaction - so we're not going back to point zero. We made it clear that the Ministry of the Environment will be able to shorten the deadlines to the minimum, and if we get documentation on these constructions, we will issue an opinion within six months or within six months, so there should be no real delay in these buildings. Of course, it is possible that there will be an appeal under a zoning decision or a building permit, but that would always happen. This simply can never be avoided, this could always happen and we know that some of these actions are latently problematic. To my colleague Luzar through you, Mr President. I don't lack self-esteem or humility. Believe it. I also blame myself - not that we didn't act. We acted on dozens of meetings, and I acted on at least ten of them personally. And not only the people of the Ministry of Transport, the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development were involved in this. We began to act immediately after we managed to save the 100 billion crowns that were at risk if we did not accept the thirty-nine. But it is true that we have been dealing with the European Commission for a few months, say four to five months, with the fact that they have declared themselves ready to talk about the 42. That's right. But then, on those specific cases, it turned out that the projects had changed so terribly in time and in the project and in the territory that they simply, when they had the projects on the table, told us that they weren't willing to debate the two forty-fours. So it was the only thing I blame myself for, and that's definitely where we could have been more aggressive. But frankly, at that point, it didn't even make sense for the Prime Minister to go there, because everything went according to the agreement with the European Commission, and they declared that they would be willing to negotiate those old projects and approve them ad hoc according to the so-called. The Slovenian model, which is a model that proved to be our success last year, and thanks to it we financed 23 large projects for almost 50 billion crowns, which also had an old EIA. So it's not about us not working. It is simply that we really thought that we would be able to agree with the European Commission on those old projects, as we did in the last round. With regard to the verification negotiations, I would like to assure Mr Luzar, by your means, Mr President, that these verification opinions, today we would issue 150 for projects under the law of 100, but we cannot issue either. And this is not about the decision of the Ministry of the Environment, but it is about the decision of the European Commission, because once we have issued even one valid opinion under Law 244, we are falling out of funding from other operational programmes. That's why we're dealing with this problem. To a fellow Zahradník. I also do not think that this is always a matter of, say, complaints from those groups of NGOs. Often these buildings were prepared hectically in the past period, with errors, so that they were attacked in the courts and fell because of it. Germany, Austria and probably, I do not know if they have fewer environmental organisations, but we do not have more complex EIA legislation than Germany or Austria. And even in Germany, the EIA may take seven years on the road, but it's merged into one steering, so of course there can be a lot faster progress. Finally, I would like to thank all of you for your helpfulness, if this law is adopted in the 90's terms, and I would like to reiterate that, although the amendment 39/2015, which seems to have been adopted, as something that has completely blocked the situation, I say from the perspective of the crisis manager, when we were placed in a role or in a position that we must decide very quickly not to threaten the withdrawal of CZK 100 billion from the last operational period, and only from the Operational Programme Environment has managed to save the 18 billion we would have missed, so I want to declare that this step clearly demonstrates that we are not going to lose the euro, colleagues and colleagues. Neither the euro nor one Czech crown, according to what will apply in the Czech Republic at that time, we will not be coming from the European Operational Programme Transport thanks to this legislation. Either we invest the money in roads and highways, in all these events that we have prepared or that we're going to prepare. And I am convinced, and we have agreed with the Minister of Transport that in this crisis mode of progress for those remaining buildings, for the remaining 86 buildings, I do not know if it is exactly that many things that are still needed before they could even ask for a building permit, so we are convinced that we can manage them, even with the repeated EIA, at which they have already started work at the level of the Ministry of Transport, without simply being threatened right now. This means that these ten events for CZK 50 billion will unblock what would slow down the construction season. And I dare say that because of what we've done - and don't be mad at me for repeating it, but it is, it's not that a hundred times repeated lie would become the truth. We helped the construction season 2014/2015 by accepting it 39/2015, because otherwise the construction companies would no longer have the money and would not have built so much. I'm sorry, I'm long. So one more time. I want to thank you all if you agree to accept the 90th, and I want to say that in September there should be an EIA transposition amendment in the House, for which there will certainly be a big debate and which will bring further simplification and acceleration of the entire EIA process. And let's talk about the other things we're going to do in this transposition novel that we're going to put in government by August, or by the end of August, and it should appear in the House in the course of the fall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u35	I thank Minister Brabco for his final word. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word as well. Yes. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u36	It is a pity that the Minister did not speak in the debate, because this has deprived some of my colleagues who would certainly like to respond. I'd follow up on the morning meeting. So you'll have more of an EIA amendment than Minister Dienstbier of Laws for the entire term. I don't know what's worse news. You call yourself a crisis manager, I don't take it from you, but you brought yourself into the crisis. It's a new definition of crisis manager. I'm gonna start a crisis, and then I'm dealing with it as a crisis manager. Why not? Just two really short arguments about what you said. You said Law 39/2015, meaning that the figure is clear that it was adopted or entered into force in 2015. That's a match. And saved the construction season in 2014. This is quite a strange logic that the law, which was approved in 2015, saved the construction season a year in advance. Without that, the construction season would have gone wrong. Then, Minister, if you argue on the other construction sites, choose. At first, you said that a large number of these buildings don't even have a territorial decision yet, so you assured us that those buildings that have a territorial decision will not be that big of a delay. So it's either first or second. He really can't pay both together. It's a shame - I don't want to delay the debate anymore - that you didn't say it in the course of a normal discussion, that we could respond and possibly discuss it in more detail. But you really have to choose. You throw 300 sentences at us, and then when we take them apart, we find that the sentences go against each other and they can't apply at the same time. So if you could at least give us the option that we can choose which ones they pay, but they can't really pay both of them at the same time. [[17.10 hours]] First, the koruna will pay, not the euro, I can assure you, don't scare us, and second, this programming period is called "2014 to 2020," just like last time. Seven years. As of 31 December this year, three years will pass from this programming period. You already know we won't lose a crown. But in those three years, how much of the operational programs you've been talking about? Zero. And it doesn't matter whether the crown or the euro. That's still zero. So we have four years left. I admire your optimism that you already know today that we will not have one euro left, not one crown left. But that's not the right idea. If you say "I'm sure the money we're going to draw will be drawn on good projects," that's a good sentence. And it doesn't matter if there's a zero or a hundred euros or a million euros left. The important thing is that we are exhausted, there are good projects that will serve the economy of this state, not that we will officially have and we will invent nonsensical projects. [[unintelligible]] And I know something about it. Operational programme Transport I had to go to tens and hundreds of small events with huge administration to drain the money. If we do better, and this does not concern this government, don't take it as a criticism of you or this government, then we had much less of those projects with a better effect. And instead of learning from it, and I think that's a lesson for all of us not to repeat the mistakes, because also in 2007 and 2008, nothing was drawn, the period was 2007 to 2013, so we are in the same, if not in a worse situation. So as a state, we haven't learned much. Well, I hope the next four years from that programming period will be better than the first three, because in the end, our state budget is equally important. 1,250 billion expenses a year. And we saved 40 or 50. Not that it's not enough, but put the two numbers in the ratio, which means it's 5,000 billion in the term. And you put 50 on it. And I'm not saying I want to underestimate it, but the key to transport infrastructure will always be our money, our state budget, our laws, how we will be able to prepare, compete and build these buildings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u37	That was Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. The final word of the rapporteur and we will continue. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be brief. The debate was here around the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the so-called EIA. As I listened to it, of course, I wanted to respond to a number of colleagues, but I won't be doing much more to dissect it. Just maybe one little thing. There's a little bit of an impression that the EIA is something wrong or inappropriate. I'd like to set it straight. The EIA is a process which aims to assess the environmental impact of the projects in question. It's not a decision-making process. The result is an expert opinion, which must then be included in other decision-making processes. Of course, the public concerned is also included there by means of their comments, which the expert body then includes in the opinion. Of course it brings delays, sometimes it brings delays. Sometimes it brings benefits. But that's just upside down, and it's better if we're an open civil society and allow the public to comment on the constructions. Speaking of transport constructions, of course, it suits the citizens of one community, it does not suit the citizens of the other community. And the EIA is about to find the equal, the solution that suits more people, if possible, and which is more gentle. The problem here arose in the sense that some EIA studies were also 14 years old. What can I say? It's easy to point to some culprit, but I think the culprits are multiple, and it's just a long trial, a long decision-making process. I see a certain disability in the public administration. How is it possible that some processes last so long? If you take your bread hard, you won't want to eat it hard, either, but you'll buy a new one. And so are the studies. Landscape is simply evolving, some studies have become relatively obsolete. We see that sometimes there is a mistake in designers, when they try to push some intention that simply turns out to be bad, see, for example, the flooded D8 motorway, when designers were warned that they were leading the highway through the natural slides, but it just went that way. So the EIA can't be judged just because it's something negative. I'm positive. But let's get back to the draft. There's a draft that allows ten key buildings to be implemented. The procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure is proposed here. I will support it, even with gnashing my teeth, because of course I'd like it to be discussed as standard, but I don't think that's possible at the moment. So I recommend to everyone else that they act according to Section 90. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u39	Thank you for the final words of the rapporteur. Before we continue, between 19 and 22 o'clock, Mr Herbert Pavera and Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes until 17.45. Following final words, we will proceed to the vote on whether or not we will continue in accordance with § 90 para. 5. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 843 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm gonna sing. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of Members applied for has settled, I will launch the vote. Initiating vote number 125, I ask who is in favour of the continuation under § 90 para. 5. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 125, from 132 Members present for 128. [[No one.]] The motion was accepted. It has been decided and we can continue the negotiations. I am launching a detailed debate in which I have no application, but an updated application by Mr Laudát with an accompanying resolution, if he refers to him as he lectured him in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u40	Thank you. I'm applying for what I read here. Perhaps before the vote, it would be appropriate if I read it one more time. [[Reprisals from the diaper: Now.]] Now? All right. [[- Please.]] There'll be one language adjustment, please. I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic expressed deep concern about the fact that it will be necessary to repeat the environmental impact assessment process of the D0 road circuit road circuit around Prague 511 section D1 - Běchovice, which will delay the implementation of this key construction. [[R1]] II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic regards the current state of trans-European transport on local roads of the capital city of Prague as having serious negative effects on the health and quality of life of people and the environment in places affected by current transport. III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to make every effort to eliminate this negative condition, to secure the necessary funds and to start construction of D0 road circuit around Prague as quickly as possible, building 511 section D1 - Běchovice. [[R1]] IV. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic requests the Ministry of Transport to inform the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on a quarterly basis about the preparation procedure for this construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u41	Thank you. Anyone else in detail for the debate? In a detailed debate pursuant to Section 90 (2) (a) of the Rules of Procedure, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, take into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 6 cannot be tabled an amendment or any other proposal, it is only possible to propose a correction of the date of effectiveness of the bill, its legislative technical, Because there is no such thing, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, pursuant to House Press 843." [[Environmental Impact Assessment Act]] I've started voting number 126 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126, 132 for 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. The law was adopted and it is therefore possible to adopt, under the Rules of Procedure Act, an accompanying resolution which has been read. Does anyone have a request for a vote on individual parts, or can we vote at once? No one objects. We will vote on all four points at once. [[17.20 hours]] In voting order number 127, which I have begun, I ask who is in favour of adopting the accompanying resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 127 of 132 for 132, against no one. The accompanying resolution was also approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 44. According to the Political Grémia agreement, which was repeated today on the Organising Committee, paragraph 44 was discussed. I therefore interrupt the meeting of the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the end of the 46th meeting. I therefore ask the individual Members to sign the signatures of the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the foyer. Time for technical security 46th meeting is within 17.25 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-009-044.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies with an adjourned item number.
