ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 513 and 514/ This is a merged debate which was interrupted on Friday, 8 January. I interrupted her in person. I would ask the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to take his place at the rapporteur's table, as well as Mr Jaroslav Klaška, who is rapporteur for the guarantee committee, i.e. budget. In the merged debate, we will continue with a speech with the preferential right of Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. So he won't be able to sit down. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u2	Hello, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. We've been meeting here for the eighth time. Yes, for the eighth time to discuss electronic records of sales. We've spent 1,800 minutes reading this law, obstructing 330 minutes, so totaling 2,130 minutes, which is 35.5 hours. I believe that this important project, this bill proposal, certainly deserves a thorough discussion. But I wish, and I think that you all share this wish with me to move the discussion somewhere. To present arguments rather than to present ideological phrases. Last time, I refuted the fundamental misinformation and inaccuracies that have been and are being spread about the EET, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Although my arguments merit constant repetition, I will not read the whole speech here again. Let me at least sum up what I was talking about here last time. At first, I responded to nonsense about the fact that the Ministry of Finance is focused only on electronic sales records and that it does not deal with large tax evasions. I have introduced here the most important measures that I have taken since I joined the Ministry of Finance, which we have put into practice or which we are planning. I was talking about tax Cobra, transfer prices, reverse charge, control reports, and other projects, thanks to which we move money from the hands of fraudsters into the hands of all citizens of the Czech Republic. And we're good at it, they're already showing the results for 2015, when we cut taxes, and that cost us 22.5 billion. crowns when we put more money in people's hands. As a result of a reduction in VAT on medicines, books and child nutrition. We increased the discounts on children, renewed the tax discount for working pensioners. And yet we've collected 36 billion in taxes against the plan. more. And, by the way, we have been forced to bail out some of the genius ideas of previous governments, as a tax on emission allowances, which the European Court of Justice has declared illegal, and we are now returning the 5 billion that Mr Kalousek has chosen in the past for his budget. And in spite of all that, we've chosen 36 billion. More. I also described the operation of electronic sales records here. I explained that nothing changes or changes for businessmen. There will be no administration, no extra activities. The businessman will only mark the sales and everything else will be provided by the software at the cashier's facility. I explained that nothing will change even for a customer who only recognizes the records by the special code on the receipt. He's definitely not gonna wait in line if the Internet goes out, 'cause then he gets a two-second offline receipt. And offline receipt gets also in places where it is not possible to connect to the internet at all. I explained that item data will not be sent, respectively. the content of the purchase or nature of the service. That only the total amount of sales and VAT payers will be sent VAT, because these are data that have a sense of financial management because they are relevant for the determination of the tax. I refuted the rumor that large businesses would have conditions other than tradesmen. I explained that the registration is intended for all entrepreneurs under the same conditions. I have devoted myself to the reasons why we are proposing the introduction of the EET. I have described the functioning of the tax proceedings and certain types of cash fraud, particularly in the retail sector. I have stressed almost zero possibility to prosecute under the current conditions of fraudulent behaviour in the form of a reduction in sales. I have described the negative effects of such fraudulent conduct on the state budget and on the budgets of municipalities and regions. I explained what the introduction of the EET would bring. That this is primarily a settlement of the business environment, a protection of honest entrepreneurs from unfair competition, an effect that cannot be measured by money. The other benefits are 4 billion. CZK per year for budgets of municipalities of the Czech Republic, 1.5 billion. CZK per year for regional budgets and approximately 12.5 billion. CZK annually for the state budget for financing pensions, investments in infrastructure, education, health and other public services. So 18 billion. every year for all of us. The grey economy was also discussed here. I have described what components the grey economy is divided into, and I have explained that there is a substantial difference between a hidden economy, which includes, in particular, the reduction of sales, the black economy, which is, for example, a black economy. the sale of drugs or prostitution, and the informal economy, which includes e.g. That someone will fix their own house or grow carrots in the garden. [[9.10 hours]] It is therefore not possible to conclude from the size of the overall grey economy on the phenomenon of sales cuts, it is always necessary to look at a specific number, which unfortunately has a growing trend in our country and is now around 170 billion. CZK of retained earnings per year. We have also made a trip abroad to see if the Czech Republic is unique in an effort to establish a record of sales, and we have found that it is precisely the contrary that within the Central European region, we are rather the exception that out of the 13 new Member States, there is a record of sales introduced by 11 because it brings substantial benefits to their economies. I have described the difference between the registers for which Mr Kalousek has voted twice in the past and the electronic registration of sales in a modern concept, i.e. an online model. I explained that at the register office, the state would determine what kind of cash register an entrepreneur would have to buy. In the case of electronic sales records, they need not buy anything if they already have the corresponding cashier device, and even in the format of a tablet with a printer. And if someone doesn't have the necessary equipment, there's absolute freedom in choosing a cashier or another device. Prices will be reduced by competition on the market, and we will add 5,000 to the tradesmen. koruna tax discount. I also explained that unlike the register office from which a financial official has to download data, the record of sales has the advantage that an honest businessman will not see control in his entire life, as a result of which he will save his time and energy. We have also repeated the cost to the state here, as the opposition draws numbers randomly as in the Mates draw. The truth is that the cost of building an IT system does not exceed 370 miles. CZK and operation will then not cost more than 170 miles. crowns a year. And we're trying to lower these numbers, so we're going to get 18 billion. Every year, and you've heard the expenses. As part of the analysis of national myths and rumours, we have also focused on sanctions. We have explained how the principles work and administrative punishment will work, and the resulting fact that no one will pluck the ears of businessmen for a change. But I said the law wouldn't be toothless against notorious frauds either, because we repeatedly hear people screaming that a fraud would go around and it would end up with an honest man. And I promise here that no such thing will happen, because such a law would really have no meaning. The opposition is entertained by its jokes and mockery on the topic of the Balkans and Croatia. So we looked at the impact of the introduction of the record of sales in Croatia on the collection of taxes, and we refuted the rumors about the inefficiency of this system. I repeat the basic figures here once again: 40 per cent increase in reported sales in restaurants and 14 per cent increase in trade. In conclusion, we have recalled to whom restaurant owners should thank for blocking the VAT reduction proposal from 21 per cent to 15 per cent, which we propose, that is, once again, we propose a tax reduction. I think that last time we were all satisfied that our debates finally took on a material character, which is why I would like to continue today. Even today, I would like to answer the questions that were raised here last time, even though I have answered some of them many times. However, I repeat, I want the debate to be factual and constructive. In this respect, there is no point in responding to the last part of President Fiala's speech, which was for us, or should have been an excursion to economics theory, and which had nothing to do with the substantive debate on the record of sales. The theory belongs to academics, but we should be dealing with the reality of life here, current problems, trying to constantly move the standard of living of our citizens upwards, because it really deserves it today after a number of skinny years and after the government of corruption and the stifling of the economy. And I believe that people will let us know whether they want such a shift and whether they appreciate the fight against a distorted market environment or not. President Fiala said that we are witnessing the instigation of an artificial, reality-free conflict between workers on the one hand and businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on the other. And I totally agree with him. However, it is not the government coalition that provokes this conflict. It is precisely the opposition that seeks topics by creating artificial barriers and stickers and spreading panic. We are trying to create a market environment for all entrepreneurs in which they will be doing well, an environment in which not paying taxes and stealing competition from customers will not be a quietly tolerated practice. President Fiala quoted here from letters from businessmen. They expressed concerns about what will happen when there is a record of sales that there will be an increase in administration, forms, etc. I think I refuted these concerns last time, but I would especially like to propose to the citizens not to write these letters to the ODS, but write to me at the Ministry of Finance. We will answer your letter in a matter of fact. We will discuss your concerns with you, explain what the bill really contains and how registration should work. We'll invite you to the events we hold for electronic sales records. You will find that worries about the future of your business are pointless, and you will understand that what the opposition is saying is just haunting and rumors. This also applies to the results of the survey of the evaluation of the electronic record of sales by the MDIAN businessmen, presented here by Chairman Fiala. Yes, it showed that the traders are concerned about the sales records. But let's put this information in context. Right from the first question, 32 percent of respondents knew little about the record of sales and 51 percent only had basic information without details. And that is exactly the result of the disinformation campaign that the opposition is running here. It is logical that when a businessman learns conflicting information from two sources, he does not know what to believe. Yes, then 64 percent of the entrepreneurs surveyed are afraid that their administration will increase, although they do not have any administration to file their sales. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, a lot of Members talking loudly.]] Mr President, when the opposition is here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u3	Mr Vice-President of the Government, I would ask all colleagues who wish to discuss something other than electronic sales records to bring such a discussion into the foyer. I think it is not only an obligation, but, in particular, the right of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to put his speech in order. I'm begging you to calm down the bunches in the various parts of the House. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u4	That is why I appeal here to the citizens: seek information and critically evaluate it yourself. I have the same challenge for opposition Members: Seek information, evaluate it critically and do not allow yourself to be massaged by the ideology of your party secretariats. The ODS is complaining about lack of communication. I really have to laugh about it when the ODS blames us for not wanting to talk to them, and we don't want to discuss the law. During the entire preparation and discussion of the law, I and my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration participated in dozens of events where electronic records of sales were discussed and attended in the sum of a unit of thousands of entrepreneurs. We answered questions, responded to comments, explained details. And I'm asking where the opposition was. For example, we held a big conference with the Croatian Finance Minister, where we invited you all. Other major events were organized by the Chamber of Commerce or the Association of Trade and Tourism, the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs and Traders, several events in the regions were held by the Association of Hotels and Restaurants. The Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration also held meetings with businessmen in individual regions, which are still ongoing. Come to Zlin on February 8th. In October we had a big event at the GASTRO fair and we plan another similar event at the Holešovice Exhibition Centre on 19 February. We performed several times at retail fairs, last time yesterday in Olomouc. In addition to events for restaurants and traders, we also lectured at events for farmers, meat processors or professional chambers of dentists, auditors and others. [[9.20 hours]] We performed at the University of Hotels, University of Economics and other educational institutions. We were discussing the conference of the E15 daily or the event organized by the Czech Moravian Chamber of Trade Unions. We had a few lectures for the Chamber of Tax Advisors, we attended an event with smaller organizations that invited us to discuss this law with us. Countless meetings took place directly at the Treasury Department with my participation. We met with economic analysts. We met with the Parliamentary Club of the Dawn of Direct Democracy and KDU-ČSL over the bill, as it showed interest. Here in the House, we lectured on a subcommittee for the economy. And I ask again, where were ODS and TOP 09? Why didn't you come here to discuss the bill? If you criticise some of the provisions, why have you not tabled amendments to them? Why aren't we finally dealing with this really factually and constructively? I really don't understand. Mr Stanjura and some of his colleagues asked questions about the planned IT system for electronic sales records last time. I would take the liberty of answering them briefly. By the way, after describing the technical principle of EET as the communication of the machine with the machine, Mr Stanjura said that he did not want to live in a world dominated by machines. I was afraid the MP would throw away the computer and the phone and go into the woods, but luckily he's here with us, so I guess he didn't mean it. To the IT solution, therefore, first in general. It is known that all the work on building a technical solution, that is investment costs, is suspended, which was stated, among other things, at the Government's meeting on 20 August 2015. The reason why we have reached this solution, which is not usual in the practice of the state administration, was the escalating attacks and the significant politicisation and centralisation of the material and technical plane of the entire project, which has reached the level of intimidation of civil servants. Yes, intimidation. Someone filed an anonymous criminal report, and the police are investigating the Ministry of Finance employees for a few change compared to an expected return of 18 billion. per year. Obstacles and problems are made from all sides. We do not want this key project to be threatened by a purpose-based attack of alleged illegal action. We have therefore proposed by the Coalition Amendment an extension of the legitimisation period to seven calendar months. During this period, a technical solution will be built and tested, i.e. the central IT system of electronic sales records. As regards procedural issues, I note that the e-booking of sales project was discussed at the meeting of the Information Society Council on 13 April 2015. As regards Government Resolution No 889 of 2 November 2015, I must state that despite the fact that the project was launched before this resolution, the Ministry of Finance is preparing to submit a technical solution to the Ministry of the Interior and to the branch of the main architect of eGovernment. The same situation is also in relation to the mentioned requirements of the Public Administration Information Systems Act. The final solution of IT systems cannot logically be submitted before the law is approved due to the above suspension of work. As regards the alleged potential for conflict with eIDAS, in this case, the whole issue of the certificate appears to have been misunderstood. These will be certificates issued by the internal certification authority and will therefore not be certificates within the meaning of Directive 1999/93/EC or eIDAS. I really appreciate the extent to which Stanjura's colleague has dealt with this issue and studied it in substance, but I can assure him that we have, of course, worked with the Ministry of the Interior in this area, and the proposed system is not contrary to the regulation. It is also not contrary to the Accounting Act, as mentioned here in relation to the transfer of accounting records. To increase data flow or data volume. The data management for each receipt including the certificate is in the order of units of kilobytes. An example for an illustration. Data from all receipts, from all companies and entrepreneurs in one day, including hypermarkets and business centers, correspond to the size of approximately 15 movies in Blu-ray quality. Or else. The receipt data are so small that the five checkout store will be less demanding on the Internet than when reading the Internet newspaper. I did not understand Mr Stanjura's request for an anonymity of the data, and so I am asking for an explanation. Logically, if the data had been anonymous, their collection would have lost meaning to the tax administrator and would have been useless to them if they didn't know who they were. I will return briefly to the issue of theft or misuse of the certificate. It is the same as with access data to a data box or with authentication means to Internet banking. They must be protected. Even if a certificate for registration of sales is stolen and misused, it will be dealt with individually with the entrepreneur. Just like when your credit card gets stolen. There is no way that this means that the tax office will immediately pay the tax. Unlike Croatia, certificates will be issued by the Financial Administration for free and it will be possible to apply for more certificates according to the needs and specific functioning of a particular entrepreneur. This can solve the problem of replacing the certificate in the event of theft for entrepreneurs with more cashiers. To ask Mr Kučera about the protocol for encrypted data transfer between the entrepreneur's facilities and the central IT system. It is true that the use of the SSL protocol, version 3, was mentioned in the original feasibility study. As part of the study, it was only one possible solution, but it changed as part of the development of the project. Therefore, I can announce that the TLS protocol, probably version 1.2., will be used for secure data transfer. The specific version of this protocol is in discussion and will be published within the interface. Mr Bendl asked about the publication of the interface. I have been talking here about the fact that the work on the systems is stopped until approval of the Sales Recording Act. This interface will then be published in the order of several weeks, shortly thereafter the testing environment for software developers and cashiers will be operational. I just add that the interface will be published by the Financial Administration, not by the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance will not operate the central system and will not, of course, have access to the data from this system. Mr Bendl also asks how the bodies will be selected for inspection. I've already described it here, and I'm happy to repeat it. The advantage of electronic sales log is that the central IT system can evaluate according to the set rules where there may be a potential problem with the reduction of sales, and then the physical control will then focus on such an entity. Of course, in time, this system will improve. At the beginning of the period, therefore, the checks will be flat and will focus, in particular, on whether the relevant entrepreneur has at all a cashier's disposal. As in other countries, we want to set certain tolerance periods here. The goal is certainly not to bully entrepreneurs. The introduction of electronic sales records has a business environment to help and the Financial Administration must treat it this way. Mr Gazdík, to whom I thank for his sincere interest in the substantive debate on this law, last time he raised two circles of questions to which I would now respond. The first circuit was the issue of village pilgrimages and similar events. The Member mentions that the organizer is a municipality, which is often also a VAT payer. I would like to point out that the obligation to record sales also applies to VAT payers. That's for the record. In any event, public bodies such as municipalities or regions are exempt from the obligation to register sales. [[9.30 hours]] So once again - municipalities and regions do not have to record sales, and therefore it does not concern electronic records of sales. Therefore, if the recipient of the sale is a municipality, there is no registration obligation. But if a businessman or company sells for such an event, it will be obliged to register as if the transaction took place in a stone shop. However, if it is not possible to connect to the electrical connection, a wide range of devices operating on batteries can be used according to experience from the Croatian market. As far as the Internet is concerned, it is, of course, possible to use mobile data and even higher concentration of entrepreneurs in one place will not cause congestion due to the small size of the data administration, or the municipality can also set up a public wifi network. Mr Gazdík's second series of questions aimed at social events organized by associations, e.g. Balls or merry-go-rounds. Yes, we also thought about this aspect of social life. Since these types of primarily non-profit-making entities may also have a non-profit-making activity as ancillary to a fully taxable business, it would be unfair to exclude them entirely from the registration obligation. However, they will only record revenue from the business if they are engaged in such a business activity. Moreover, given the nature of their activities, it is a relief for them in the draft law if this secondary business activity is only a small scale. Thus, if the association organizes once a year a merry Christmas party for which it will sell refreshments, the relevant sales will be excluded from the registration obligation, so it does not concern them. Since, in some situations, a non-profit entity may not be sure whether it will enter this exemption, it may obtain a binding assessment from the Financial Authority in advance, that is to say, an official decision binding on the Financial Administration's authorities. Finally, I have prepared a little quiz for Members of the ODS and TOP 09 and I want to ask if they know what this paper is. [[It's showing a thousand-coron.]] I can see you know. That's a thousand Czech crowns. This is the thousand crowns that you have raised VAT from 5 percent to 15 percent each month from each household's pockets. So you pulled out 12 grand a year every family in the Czech Republic, every household. You pulled them out on VAT from basic living needs, on food, on heat, on water, medicines, etc. Not to mention those who, of course, have significantly higher incomes. So you guys were actually solving the problem... You didn't collect taxes, you didn't do anything against cheaters, you actually collected money from our citizens. So I'm really shocked that you actually dare to lecture us here about how to collect taxes and what to do for tax collection. I would just like to remind you that in 2004 when we joined the European Union we had a VAT rate of 5% and 19 percent and after three ODS governments Kalousek have 15 and 21. So you took money from the citizens and the cheaters had a paradise. We lower taxes, we don't raise taxes, and at the same time we raised 36 billion. more. So we collect taxes better, and I ask you to stop actually blocking this law, which is important to all citizens of this country, and to stop protecting fraudsters who don't pay taxes. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u5	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I have five factual points here. The first is Mr Faltýnek, then Vice-President Jermanová, then President Kalousek, President Fiala, Mrs Chalánková. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u6	Mr President, allow me, on behalf of the ANO Group, to propose, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that the House decide to set aside today, on Friday 22 January, for the third reading of the bills from 14:00 to 19:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u7	Thank you. We will decide without debate. [[Member Stanjura requests the floor.]] Mr President, you have the right of priority and the same priority right, Mrs Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u8	[[He's talking off the mike.]] If she's logged in, she can go, but this can be vetoed, we can't decide without a vote when the club has the right to veto. Don't be mad at me, Mr. Vice-President. Can it be vetoed or can it not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u9	Of course he can. In that case, I can't give you a word. All you have to do is submit a decision to me in writing to the two clubs. I'll let Vice-President Jermanová come forward, then I'll give you my word, and then we'll make the decisions, because they're factual remarks. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u10	Good morning. Mr President, allow me to propose in accordance with Paragraph 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in order for the House to decide that the items 1 and 2 under discussion are 513 and 514 of the 37th session, were limited to ten minutes of speaking time, and also that the Member may refer to the same matter not more than twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u11	Yes, that is also a procedural proposal. Now, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u12	I've been reporting with something else, but I'm taking advantage of being called up on behalf of TOP 09, ODS and Dawn to bring the possibility of voting after 2:00 p.m. Why am I running out of time for 52 seconds? That's impossible. I just didn't talk for a minute or ten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u13	I'm sorry, my colleague Jermanová had a shorter performance than two minutes, and I haven't changed it yet. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u14	I just took advantage of the veto. Thank you. I just wanted to do technical work, because I don't want to take time off the other co-workers, react to the beginning of the Minister's speech when he said that last time he threw out a whole bunch of nonsense. I would like to tell you, Minister, that is not true. Last time you were here factually and correctly, I agree, as today he continued to present myths and untruths that today and daily refute not only our arguments, but, above all, disprove the daily Balkan practice, which we can watch there live, how it doesn't work and how it hurts local economies. Yes, you answer a number of questions, the question is whether truthful. If the question of Riding Karkulka "and Grandma, why are your teeth so big?" The wolf kindly answers "this so that I can caress you with them, Karkulka," so it is certainly a serious and factual answer. To what extent the answer is true, it depends on the naivety and intelligence of the Red Riding Karkulka. You're part of us with these answers, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u15	Thank you for keeping time. We are clear on the possibilities of voting because these are procedural proposals. President Faltýnek's first proposal is unvoting for the veto of three MPs. Mrs Jermanová's proposal to limit the speaking time is voteable. [[9.40 hours]] I'll check you all out. I'm gonna zagong because I asked my colleagues who were noisy to go to the lobby, so I'm gonna ask you for a new registration with my I.D. cards. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] We will vote on the proposal made by Vice-President Jermanová in two votes. The first vote will be that the speaking time will be limited to 10 minutes, and the second vote will be that each Member may make a maximum of twice. I believe we understand each other. The vote on the limitation of speaking time is the number 13 vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 13 of the 160 present for 89, against 64. The motion was accepted. The second vote is on the possibility of Members to speak only twice on the same matter. We will decide the order number 14 in the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 14 of the 161 Members present for 89, against 65. The motion was accepted. Both procedural proposals have been adopted. We continue with the factual remark made by Mr Petr Fiala. It is followed by a factual remark by Matěj Fichtner, then perhaps a proper debate. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, so you have limited the debate even before any Members could even speak without prior rights, but well, that is on a different subject. The Minister of Finance seems to be running out of arguments when he talks to me, because he has repeatedly started talking about me being an academic here, having academic debates that he could learn political science from me, which, by the way, he couldn't, and that I have no chance of speaking as an entrepreneur. Mr. Finance Minister, you are not the one judging who I have the right to speak for. They are my constituents, and they have given me confidence, and I speak for them here. But your logic is strange. If I accept it, only a teacher can speak for a teacher, a farmer for a farmer. We would be in some state-of-the-art corporate state that might suit you, but which is incompatible with modern democracy. I'm not going to explain to you here that I've run a number of institutions, including institutions with billions of budgets, successfully, and that I think I'm a better manager of public institutions than you've proven at the Ministry of Finance so far. But I'm not having this conversation here. I'll answer you another question. I didn't say anything theoretical here last time. I have refuted your argument that you can fight against the grey economy by electronic sales records, but I have shown it to you on specific cases, of course, processed in a study that shows that this is no way to fight the grey economy. This was a completely factual argument concerning electronic sales records. I'm sorry your people or you yourself didn't understand him. And why don't entrepreneurs write to you and write to us? That's perfectly logical. They don't believe you. They think you're working against them. He trusts us. They're trying to turn us into arguments for what we're fighting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u17	Mr President, you have made a point of fact. Thank you. [[There's noise in the room.]] Mr Matěj Fichtner's point of view is now still in fact. I, my colleague, will ask you to be patient. I will add further apologies, Mr Vít Kaňkovský from 9.45 until the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Kořenek from 11 o'clock for work reasons, until 10.30 for health reasons, Mr Šarapatka and Mr Tomio Okamura between 9 and 11 o'clock. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, it's not up to you. It's more of a stew record thing. But I'd like us all to remember what happened here today. In essence, my colleague, President Faltýnek, suggested extending the discussion at third reading so that there would be sufficient time to discuss this bill in third reading. And the opposition, especially the ODS and TOP 09, but also the Dawn movement, has brought this effort to expand the debate. This means that this time has unfortunately fallen short for us, fortunately this will perhaps compensate to some extent the proposal that has been adopted, Vice-President Jermanová, who has therefore successfully proposed a reduction in the debate, the speeches of individual Members to 10 minutes and twice during the debate. I hope everyone gets the space. However, I must emphasise once again that it is the opposition that has currently reduced the space we have at the third reading to discuss the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u19	I thank Mr Fichtner. Now Mr Chalupa also made a point of fact. Then came another factual comment from my colleague Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, to Mr Fial through Mr President. People trusting us or not trusting us, I think they're gonna show up at the election. So that's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u21	Thank you. My colleague Chalupa kept time to make a point of fact. A colleague of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club checked out of the factual note. We continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Vladimír Koníček, who will certainly fit within ten minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by returning to yesterday's written interpelations, when the Minister said that there was no agreement on the EET, then he corrected himself and stated that there was no external agreement. I don't know if it's appropriate to distinguish contracts like this, but I looked into the open data published by the Ministry of Finance on its website. All contracts are published there, at least according to the Minister's words here in the House, for example he said it on 18 September 2015. Minister, I also found an external contract there for consulting and managerial activities in the field of strategic management, communication and public relations in connection with the e-booking of sales project. That's the whole name of the contract. And it's contract number one. 150050001 with Mr. Mark Hlavica at CZK 1 996 500. Since I had the file open, I checked to see if there was a lease agreement for a room at the Treasury Department. On December 18, you said from this place: "Please, I will hand out the tellers myself today when we are done. I've rented a room at the Treasury Department since December 14th. I have a contract and I pay CZK 235 for every day and CZK 7 for handling." So many of your words. Why are those ministerial servants doing this to you, Mr. Secretary, for throwing sticks at you like that? You're going to say that you're publishing all the contracts, and that's where the lease agreement between the Ministry and you is missing. It makes you in the House look like you're not telling the truth. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] I still want to turn against the Minister's words yesterday in the written interpelations. You're here, Minister, he said, "If you're saying it's an interpelation, I'm saying it's a fag, not an interpelation." Minister, the laws of this country lay down the mutual position of the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, and so far, the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and not the other way around. [[9.50 hours]] And now, let me introduce you to some of the facts that also concern the e-booking of sales law. At its meeting on 3 September last year, the Audit Committee dealt with the technical solution for the application of electronic sales records. We were informed by representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the Committee's meeting that the agreement to ensure the operation of this information system was concluded under a confidential regime and could therefore not be provided to Members of the Supervisory Committee. We asked for a contract in advance of the committee's meeting. On the committee, we explained with the Ministry's staff that Members really have the right to familiarise themselves with classified documents when they need them for their work. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee promised to grant the contract to Members. When it was not delivered to the House after a month, I repeatedly asked the Minister of Finance to send it. After another month, the contract to the House was delivered - and what was my surprise! From a letter that himself was under cover, I found that the contract itself is not under any covert regime. Here I have the title sheet of this contract and it says - undisclosed annex No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[shows]] So I'm just saying that the Ministry of Finance's staff lied to Members at the committee meeting. If you would like me to be specific, Deputy Minister Hornochová and Deputy Minister Hejna, and Minister Babiš can testify because he was sitting on that committee personally. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I have internal doubts about the reasons for this. Did they really think that the inspection committee would let themselves be appeased by their statements and not verify what the reality was? Unfortunately, the Audit Committee has experience that such a situation did not occur for the first time with the accuracy of information from the Ministry of Finance. They also lie in government materials. For example, in the government's electronic record of sales material, it is stated that the contract price was established on the basis of a marketing study. So we asked the Treasury for this study. And do you know what the minister sent to the inspection committee? An opinion poll called Electronic Sales Records, a lightning survey by STEM for the General Financial Directorate. And on the D.O.D. Committee, they admitted that there was no marketing study. So, once again, I'm just saying that the contract was approved by the government on the basis of false information from the Ministry of Finance. For the preparation of the electronic sales log system, it serves as material V-1/2015, which is already reserved according to the brand in the mode. Don't worry, I'm not going to introduce you to the contents of this document. I'll just tell you one timeline. 30 January 2015 the Ministry of Finance orders the preparation of conceptual and professional materials at BDO. On 2 March, the Ministry of Studies takes over Project Specifications Electronic Sales Recording by BDO, which is not under any covert regime. And on 27 March 2015, the General Financial Directorate creates the V1/2015 document, which contains 17 pages from the BDO study above taken over by the Ctrl C - Ctrl V method, i.e. copy and paste, just released a few titles and merged some paragraphs. This served as a basis for not having to issue a tender and could be carried out with the exception of Section 18 of the Public Procurement Act. I would like to ask the Minister about the performance of this contract, which is, in fact, only an internal contract, i.e. a delivery contract and the implementation of the electronic record-keeping application of sales. The contract contains deadlines, some of which have already taken place. The contract itself states that dates are shifted on the basis of amendments to the contract. I asked for a contract with all the additions, and no supplement to the inspection committee was delivered. So what is the current state of the performance of this contract with regard to deadlines? In the media, it is repeatedly said that some selection procedures will be drawn up. I will therefore ask the Minister to explain to us what selection procedures will still be drawn up when the delivery and implementation contract is already concluded. While the contract itself provides that the supplier will inform about all sub-contracts, the Ministry of Finance's material for the Audit Committee contains information that the Ministry does not know about any tender procedure. And, sir, Minister, the final question. If you are building an information system on the basis of documentation under the confidentiality regime and this system will work with this information, it should, in my view, be subject to certification under Section 46 of Law No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence. Are you counting on this in your timetable for the introduction of electronic sales records? Can you even make it in seven months? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u23	I thank Mr Vladimír Koníček, Mr Vladimír Koníček, including compliance with the time set for discussion. Mr Radim Holeček will now take the floor, Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u24	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Babiš showed here yesterday morning a quick overview of what is likely to happen, something like a television trailer for today's programme offer. I quote: "Somebody cares that those who cheat on taxes, so that it doesn't work, so that it doesn't work out, that's why you're doing obstruction. So I'd love to. I don't know what Mr. Koníček's missing. We'll deliver everything. We're reading again tomorrow. We're gonna spend the whole day here about nothing, repeat the lies again, the demagogy, as usual. It will be the third reading again, it has already taken 1,800 minutes, in Germany it takes the third reading 90 minutes. So we're gonna read it over and over again. So if you're still missing something, I'm happy to give it to you, we'll give you a presentation, we'll show you everything. Again, a study of 190,000 and 18 billion. per year. And that's what we're cutting taxes." End of quote. Dear Minister, I don't feel like I'm lying. I don't feel like I'm a demagogist, and I don't feel like I'm repeating myself. On the contrary, I'm trying to bring the House as fresh information as possible. Yesterday I tried to convene a subcommittee on privacy, sort of because of the document you said yesterday - I quote again: "In the meantime, someone requested the study. Such a hard-working clerk has blacked out, but so is the big affair. And when I found out, I asked why they blacked out. Well, because we've been dealing with everything by the law. That's where it was a business secret. We finally figured it out. That's how they turned it off. And be careful, the attention that's been given to it, the absurd fact that we're putting ourselves here for the first time against the gray economy, that's a study for change. Because it's change. That's 190,000. And so we pay so much attention to it." End of quote. Yesterday's meeting of the EET's Sub-Committee on Protection of Privacy showed this, and all eight ministerial officials involved confirmed that the study for small change, as you say, was useless, full of gross errors and nonsense, will certainly be overworked, so a study will be created for another small change from taxpayers' pockets, which in all respects reflects the current situation. It has been kept secret for a long time, and it hasn't been any positive at all. At this point, the study is pitifully outdated - we all agree on that. What's worse, he doesn't have a follower that could set up the technical specifications of your Croatian miracle. This will require considerable synergies between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. Yesterday on the subcommittee, we learned a terrible thing, and on camera, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior also said that he had learned about the whole study from the media and that he did not actually receive it physically at all, so he has all the information from the media. It's an incredible thing for me. This miracle originally counted on launching to 1. 1. 2016. However, the February 2015 study states that the launch date may be compromised due to subsequent aspects - and I quote: The method of input and the resulting length of delivery of individual parts of the EET system. Type of input and resulting length of delivery of the EET hardware platform. Realization of training Front Office, financial offices, Czech Post, Czechpointy. The necessary time to modify existing cashier systems - estimates the previous study, the great one for the few crowns - five to six months. There is no State Treasury clearance of the Service Sharing Centre to a level of confidentiality confidential, which is clearly required by the National Security Office to supply. That is why, yesterday, when I asked the officials to shoot the time schedule of work on the EET information system, we reached out to the common forces of interesting numbers. Today, look, we have 22. 1. - even if - if you were to vote beautifully in third reading by the end of January, we would expect an excellent smooth process in the Senate, the President could theoretically sign this law sometime at the end of March, rather at the beginning of April. [[10.00 hours]] For this favorable constellation it is necessary to add seven months to the sharp start, which we have learned clearly there. For the first group you decided to torture by this law, i.e. catering and hotel business, we are talking about November 2016. And I think it's more sober by January 1, 2017. I don't know how you all feel about EET becoming a question, or perhaps the main motto of the next parliamentary elections. And you're very happy to see that this primordial super ninja news doesn't threaten the course of the regional elections. There's a lot of annonists who want obstruction deep down. So please don't pretend. On yesterday's subcommittee, we continued to discuss data security and protection. And since protection, ladies and gentlemen, is never free, I haven't noticed that condoms are free, it will be clear that building another data center, such as in Zelenč, good encryption, employees, well-trained and well-verified, those with the chip cards instead of the name and password, it will all cost us something. Don't think this is free. Next, we touched the probability of leaking data. We heard information that the data never leaked in Croatia, the system never fell. I'm just not gonna change my mind that it's stalking people, and it's a dangerous tool to collect data with which to deal very well. In combination with the Minister's employment - a bad cocktail. Finally, we also touched the question of why the EET system is supposed to be online, because that's the thing that's been bothering me the whole time when they don't have it anywhere else. The subcommittee described exactly how the system would work. In the end we broke up, or at least with me, that is the main conflict in the ideal plane. Everything that is online on the Internet, I say it is dangerous - ask the Prime Minister, for example, what he knows about it is civilized Western Europe - because, look, EET online really only has Croatia and Slovenia. Why don't they have it in the civilized states of Western Europe? Did you ask that question? Why is it only in the Balkans? Because they want to pay taxes. But they don't choose them, and that's what we learned. And they told us in Croatia, too. What we didn't get to, and those are the reservations I originally wanted to talk about, are the reservations of the Office for Personal Data Protection. They found troubles that were supposed to be incorporated into the law and they weren't. The first reason was the situation surrounding the substantive intention of the proposal. We touched that on the subcommittee yesterday, too. Because the purpose of this law was simply not written. I'm saying it's not written in the law for nothing. It serves to present the main problem at the political collapsing ground, sketching possible variants of its solution. Political representation then chooses the most optimal solution for her. He then has to stand up for him and take full political responsibility for it. But the Treasury has repeatedly given up on the material plan. It's not the first law where they did it. The project simply replaced RIA and evaluated variants using purposefully set scoring. And it gives the impression that an expert solution is the most optimal solution, as if it were the optimal option, which is obvious to all. We also confirmed this premise at yesterday's subcommittee. In fact, the choice of the model always depends on the political idea of proper regulation, which is different in a conservative, liberal or socialist ideology. If the political guarantee has chosen the right procedure, it will appear after the election, which expert decision-making can never be replaced. That would be the end of democracy and the rise of the oligarchic government of the only enlightened ruler who, thanks to his independent and apolitical advisors, can run the state as a company. I'm going to move as fast as I can not delay, which I would not like, to the second reason why I will not support the law that I consider to be a cyancal tradesman. The explanatory memorandum to the law clearly stated: The proposed legislation does not affect the standard of privacy and personal data protection. I repeat to everyone: The petitioner hereby intends the largest processing of personal data in the history of the Czech Republic - entrepreneurs, natural persons. And what will the plaintiff do? The assessment of the impact on privacy will simply go away with one false sentence that it will not interfere with personal data. And that is completely unacceptable. The purpose of DPIA escapes many Members. [[The speaker turns on the light board to see how much time is left until the time limit for his performance expires.]] I mean, if there's time... [[The limit just ran out. The President: Mr. Ambassador, he won't.]] It won't. I'll explain next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u25	Okay. Thank you. We can continue, but we have three factual points ahead of us - Mr Kučera, Mr Pilný and Mr Laudát. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u26	Hello. Thank you for the floor. My previous speaker Radim Holeček here mentioned where the Balkan news works. She actually works in the Balkans in Croatia and now in Slovenia. I do not know if Mr Holeček has the information, I would like to pass it on to him through Mr President. I don't know if he's noticed the chaos he's in Slovenia today, and that he hasn't been there for a few days because of the electronic record of sales and the chaos he's introduced among businessmen as the finance minister, which I don't think would be a bad result for us either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can't stop myself from reacting to some seemingly technical things that have been said here. If you calculate and estimate the amount of transactions from the EET, you multiply it by the length of the sentence that is in hundreds of flats, so I'll show you what the data repository looks like for a whole year. It's this. [[It's showing the flash drive.]] So the billion-dollar cost of the center in Jenchi (?) which was supposedly built because of this... I don't know. You can buy this for 300. [[He's showing his flash drive again.]] Perhaps opposition Members can buy it for 1.6 billion, or how much has been said here. Why do they not have online systems in Europe or elsewhere? They don't need them because there's plenty of places where you wave your phone around and you're paid. And how do you think it's transmitted to those systems? Manually? No. It just runs online. We're on the brink of Europe in this. And when we approach new and modern systems, it is absolutely appropriate. And the fact that we're finally getting to the beginning of the peloton, that's totally fine. And I heard an illusion about yesterday about the debate that was on the subcommittee that, for example, milk prices can be fished out of that EET sentence, and that if they aggregate, the milk producers or sellers will know in which regions the milk costs, and they will react somehow. My friends, if this is how the competition works and waits for the state to build a network of anonymous data like this, they really, really won't, really, really wait for it. They'd be crazy. So stop feeding us nonsense myths here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u29	I thank Mr Pilný. Now another factual point by Mr František Laudát. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u30	Thank you. I'd follow up on my previous speaker. I don't know if anyone here feeds you nonsense through the President, Mr Member. But one is already proven after yesterday and today's performance by Mr. Koníček. Someone's feeding us lies, lies, lies. I would ask and give a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting, or have the Minister of Finance come forward immediately and answer all these questions and provide evidence that everything is different from what Mr Koníček said. I consider it absolutely essential, because then we get into a situation that we no longer know what to believe and what not to believe from him. I'll admit I haven't been able to remember lying this shameless since 2006. So I'm making a procedural motion for this meeting to be adjourned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u31	There. Your procedural proposal has one flaw, my colleague. That means time to when.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u32	By Friday. By 9:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m. January 29th till 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u33	Until January 29th, 9:00. Okay. [[Screaming from the diaper: What year?]] I will sing because I have asked my colleagues to bring other discussions into the foyer. So I'm gonna check you all out first and... [[Again from the O.R., which year?]] Please don't shout at each other! I will make proposals so that they can be put to the vote. Alternatively, if I do not express the will of the person who proposed the specific point, then, of course, you have a chance to object to the President's procedure. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The proposal put forward by Mr František Laudát means that this meeting should be suspended until 29 January this year - my colleague Laudát listens to me. Prime Minister! President Laudat listens to me, until 29 January of this year, I add, yes, by 9 o'clock, which is a voteable proposal. Then we'll vote on it in the next vote, if I read the apology first. Between 10 and 12 o'clock, Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologizes. Now this procedural proposal to interrupt until 9 o'clock on 29 January this year. I've started voting number 15. I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting this meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 15. Of the present 138 for 55, versus 76. The motion was not accepted. We will continue with the speech, the minister wants... the de facto chairman of the ODS Club, then the de facto chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please. [[Babiš]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u34	I have no factual point, I object that I have not been able to sign up, even though I have tried hard to do so. So I could not vote, so I object to the results of this vote for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u35	Okay. So first, we're going to vote in a procedural vote if we're going to accept an objection to the electronic record of the vote, as requested by the chairman of the ODS club. We are voting without debate. I've started voting number 16. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 16. Of the 141 Members for 133, against 2. Objection has been accepted, so we will vote on the interruption once more. I have begun voting number 17 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting the meeting until the 29th of January of this year by 9 o'clock. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 17. Of 141 MPs for 55, versus 76. The motion was not accepted again. Let's continue. Now, therefore, the factual remark made by the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. Well, the hazing, that's actually the right word for Mr. Koníček. He took me for a sacrifice. All right, Mr. Koníček, 18. 12. 2015 I published the lease, which is so important to you, on those cashiers. So if you're on Twitter, take a look. There's the contract. And the clerk didn't give it, so he got a soda, and he'll be a clerk in no time. And it's not an obligation! So you're pissing me off! The way you bullied me with my income - five letters, how much I take, why I take. I've explained everything to you. And your IT requirements-- no one understands you at the Ministry. So write them clearly so we can answer you. The BDO contract was created as a small-scale public contract with a price of 199 thousand. VAT excluded. This process was followed not only by all legal regulations but also by the internal regulations of the Ministry of Finance. In determining the price, the Ministry of Finance based its information on the market and addressed BDO IT as a potential supplier of project support on the ground that, following the cancellation of the previous public contract, BDO IT offered the lowest bid price. So the Ministry has made a significant contribution to saving funds. And I beg of you, the hazing from yesterday, those parties, the finance minister, he's supposed to know why your study has 145 pages and our 144. So I, who I don't use a computer, learned that they flipped it from PDF format to some other format and some table skipped there. So it's the same study. Well, that's a faggot! You don't have anything concrete! You're just pissing me off. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Now the de facto remark made by Mr Laudát, then the factual comment made by Mr Koníček. No, my colleague Laudát gives up. Now, Mr Vladimír Koníček, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u38	Minister Babiš, if you think it's a hoax to point out that you here in this House are going to say that you're publishing all the contracts, and I'm just going to warn you that yours isn't in that list, there's a file on both the valid and invalid contracts to 1. 1. 2016. That was a statement, I don't think it's a fag. And I got back to you. I only dealt with your wages with one letter by telling the House that you explained everything to me, to your committee. And unfortunately, it wasn't true again because you explained it to the mandate and immune committee, not the control committee. And I only dealt with the situation in the statement - you submitted two statements, one as a minister, one as a Member. And in what you gave as minister, you said that from February to December you had a salary of 200 miles from Agrofert. In this, as a Member, you had a salary of 200 million from January to December. And you explained to me that 200 miles. You were given just in January when everyone came out that you had zero in January. So, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u39	I ask that Members not shout at each other. If you want to address someone, through the President. Please proceed, Mr. Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u40	She's a serious matter, please. Because if the minister makes a wage like that, it's against the conflict of interest law, because he just can't take that wage at the time he's a minister. This is a conflict of interest law, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u41	Thank you for keeping time. A real comment by the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u42	I just want to remind you that it's about the 38th hour of reading the EET, and I don't know why you're dealing with wages here. I explained it to you, you had it on paper. And I know you were sick when you saw the wages, but that's your problem. [[Laughs of Members YES.]] So don't worry about her, my wages! I paid as a natural person here almost 300 miles. CZK in the last ten years! And my companies took 19.6 billion. They're gone! So don't worry about my wages! And the lease with the cashiers that I gave away to 4,000 of our children - what's it to you? We're dealing with EET here. We're not dealing with tellers. Even if it's connected, I get it. But that's my private contract. 235 kroner a day and seven kroner for the fact that there was, I don't know, an act. And I put the contract on Twitter 18. 12. And the fact that the clerk didn't give it up, I got 25,000 of them, the clerks! Should I kill them all? I don't know. So it'll be there in an hour! And worried about the lease on the cashiers was Dominik Feri, who then lost the cashier, that's their official, TOP 09. I really don't know what you want from me. And I was talking about an external IT contract. We don't have an external IT contract. The debate was about IT. So you're pulling it out of context. So I'd really like you to make it clear what you need from the Treasury, and we'll make it clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u43	I thank the Minister of Finance for keeping time. And before I make any further factual remarks by Mr Kováčik, Mr Laudát and Mr Kovářová, I will state the apologies received from the negotiations to calm the situation in the House. He apologizes between 9.15 and 11.30 Mrs Kristýna Zelienková and from 10 to 11.30 Mr Petr Kudela. Now, on the point of fact, Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good day on Friday. I would have dared to defy the accusations of my colleague from the club of the chairman of the control committee of Vladimír Koníček from the faggot. Vladimír Koníček is a famous perfectionist and stickler, and I didn't notice he was dealing with any wages here. He's dealing with a possible violation of the law. As Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, of course, he has the right, like all of us, to do so, he, as Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, has the right to do so. And if there's anything you can't blame Vladimír Koníček for, it's just that he, like a perfectionist, for no reason, started anything here, or tried to argue with someone just to stretch it out, he's been pissing off atp. I ask, through the President, anyone, including Minister Babiš, not to accuse my colleague Vladimír Koníček in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u45	Thank you to the Chairman of the KSČM Club. Now, Mr František Laudát, who has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. Chairman of the Kováčik Club took me a little wind off the sails because I wanted to respond to the same thing. I have known Mr Koníček for many years and how many times he has warmed up regardless of party jurisdiction, and although we clearly disagree on a number of things in our opinions, there are few Members on a material level who deal with such precision. And he really doesn't deserve to be blamed by the Minister of Finance. I think the matter is clear. Let the Ministry of Finance give us, and it will match the truth of what contracts have been signed, what is the subject of contracts, how much they cost and when they were awarded, I think it's pretty simple, and let it get to the Audit Committee, let it get to the Budget Committee as information. However, here exactly is the big problem, what is true and what is not true. I'm sorry that KDU-ČSL doesn't mind, and it spreads itself that she is the greatest moral guarantor and protector of decency and truthfulness. Social Democrats don't mind, either, and what else won't be true after that? And that koníček's jealous. I'm not jealous. I, on the other hand, wish everyone wealth. The difference is that the Minister of Finance, thanks to his nature, only wants wealth from himself, from the others he wants to take it. The information he paid on taxes is interesting, but they are not relevant, so just put it together with what he already took from the state budget from taxpayers' money on various subsidies. That means at least if nothing else, then zero from scratch will die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u47	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and Mrs Kovářová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister, his speech, where he warned us to look into information. That's what I was trying to do. Minister, do you know what this is? This is a BDO report published by the Ministry of Finance. So I tried to get information. It says here that for operation, i.e. originally there is a bad sum even, so the annual traffic will cost after my better sum of 396 million, you said 170 million, and the EET system 170 million. So I'd just like to ask you how it is with the information, where I'm supposed to get it and where I'm supposed to get the right information. The expected contribution is also evaluated here at 10 to 15 billion. You say 18. So only where this information can be verified. You asked what we wanted from you. We want factual, true and objective information from you, and instead, I've already asked you to do that, you're running on a wave of political agony again. So I personally, and I think I speak for all my colleagues, we want objective, true information, or links where we're supposed to be looking for that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u49	Thank you, Mrs Kovářová, for keeping time on the point of fact, and now one more point in fact by Mr František Vácha. This could bring us further to the debate prepared by Mr Jan Zahradník, then by Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask maybe you or someone from the Bureau. I have noted in the media that the Bureau has agreed that if the debate in the House is vulgar, it will intervene and interrupt the meetings. I think the remarks from Minister Babiš towards Mr. Koníček about the faggot were coming. I would like to ask you to pay more attention to what he is saying when speaking to the Minister of Finance and possibly interrupt the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u51	Thank you. I'll keep an eye on that. Maybe we're too tainted with some statements. Mr Zahradník now, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am a longtime municipal and regional policy. Whether I worked as a coalition representative or opposition, I have always considered the institution of the Supervisory Committee to be very important, an entity that needs to be walked around very carefully, because to some extent it has the possibilities and capacity to beware of. And that's right. And we have always entrusted the chair of the Supervisory Committee to the opposition party, as it is here with us, and I must say that President Koníček, however he is from KSČM, has addressed me very positively with his arguments and with clarity and clarity and logical order of his arguments. I must say, I'm a little surprised to the Minister that he was so dramaticly, almost rudely, I'd say, on him. No one here should mess with the inspection committee like that. That wouldn't have to pay him off. But even though in this connection with the e-booking of sales law, it might be a good thing if the whole material, the whole idea on which it stands, the whole idea base was subject to a thorough review. My colleague Koníček is trying to review this on the basis of the fact that he controls the individual sub-items, individual sub-materials, documents, documents accompanying the creation of this law. I'm worried the Ministry isn't exactly the best order. There I would quite recommend that the Supervisory Committee be very careful about this, so that we, too, in the House, learn what is happening there through it. I was talking about the whole idea being based on some kind of idea, a fundamental thing like that. And the idea, I think, can be summed up, let me even quote one letter that I received from some lady who has signed as a loyal listener of Radiožurnál, which I am also, although, I don't know why, but we have really different opinions, but what she is writing is something that needs to be read: [[10.30 hours]] The words of the founder of the travel agency Vítkovice Tours Zdeněk Honek, who, according to his words in Radiožurnál, is the father of the ideas of electronic cash registers, are so accurate that it is appropriate to approve this law. It is good to thank him for the idea, says the faithful listener. The treasury law will allow maximum control over every businessman, maximum control over every businessman, every establishment. Everyone needs to be checked. Moreover, it is possible to extend these controls to several areas according to further interest, what to control and who to control. As Mr Honek says in Radiožurnál, it is possible to check all data links to the police and then online. And that, as the faithful listener says, is a good thing. You can control, as Mr Honek says, working hours, i.e. who works where and when and how long. And then even here, you can fine. According to Croatian experience it works and checks are needed. Again, loyal listener of the Radiožurnal. Yes, to control everything, to distrust everyone, to consider everyone a thief. That is what I think is the idea that many can share and may even be in favour of the fact that in the name of this unacceptable ideology for me, it is then necessary to restrict and limit all of their personal freedom. But the worst part is that it is precisely the consequences of this restriction of personal freedoms, in which the first moment will result at first glance the honest and good effort of everyone under any circumstances and always control, so it will turn against these ordinary people. Those people, like with all due respect, are here a minister who, thanks to their income, can decide which part of the world they will live in the next day and where they will live and where they will move, they probably don't care, but those ordinary people can't move and then they have to live in a place, an environment that we know well from the 40s, 50s and other years in our country. And the government seems to have it in its gene pool somehow, this idea of controlling everyone and restricting freedom. She's trying to do it in different cases, already finished, approved, or perhaps just intended. I'll try to remind them. So, for example, the government, especially the Minister, thinks that all landowners, gardens are fools who once they see the land, so all the trees that grow on it will be defeated, so it has adopted a decree that forbids felling trees of some diameter, about 25 cm in the size of a man's arm, and that man can only defeat it when asked by the authorized community and the clerk graciously gives him permission. I understand that these people are probably gonna do this in the cities, but the idea that a man who's used to taking care of himself in the village isn't gonna let an official do it. This is what our nice government officials are trying to do. Then here they have a purpose, which I'm sure we'll still have a lot to discuss and which is coming, I don't know if in this meeting, and that's that when somebody seems to be drowning in their stoves with a bad heater, it's possible to climb into his house and check it out. Again, the idea that is very tempting at first sight, so let the firemen and polluters turn around. But just the idea of doing this on the basis of a law, a law other than a law that allows a cop to enter the house when he's equipped with a judge's search warrant, another law, an air protection law, that's totally unacceptable to me. Anyway, someone's trying to limit the time when I can go to the store to buy something. People who pay tribute to smoking, ban smoking and control them. And I guess the control will eventually go to the households. That's what I'm afraid of. I will recall efforts to limit, control and other matters related to climate protection. It's always for the most sacred reasons, it's always the most sacred things, but in the end, the impact on a person will always be personal, directly on his freedom, and it will affect him directly. And now here's the e-booking bill for sales. Of course, I'm not an economist, but I have a history of business. I started my business in the early 1990s, in fact, at a certain time when business required a measure of courage. At the time, I was in the field of education and, of course, I also dealt with various options for avoiding taxes. I've never agreed to such opportunities. Of course, I have always chosen the path of law and the path of law to protect myself, but also my clients. And here they're all slammed, especially the little businessmen, they're considered potential offenders. Here, it is often used by the word businessman that they are businessmen who will be affected. I was the other day, it was March 12, 2015, and he had an interview with Minister Babiš. I see - is this my time, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u53	Yes, the red one is time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u54	I've been here ten minutes? [[- That's right!]] I'll admit I haven't even started yet. [[Laughter.]] I've got it now. Now, I'd like to address the Minister with the question that he's confusing what a businessman and a craftsman is, but I don't think I can do that anymore. I think he confused the concept of a businessman and the concept of a craftsman in his reply. Well, I'll explain it to him when I come forward for the floor again, then I'll allow you, Minister, not to be confused about what a businessman he is and what a craftsman he is. You said if I was deaf mute, then I'm not. So, with all due respect, thank you for your attention and for some time to see you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u55	Thank you and thank you for respecting the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear and then Mr Adolf Beznoska will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u56	Good day, fellow Members, Mr President, Mr Minister. The minister spoke this morning saying that he had calculated for minutes how much time we spent on it, and that he considered that time was useless and that nothing new could actually fall. I must say that my colleague Koníček has convinced us, I hope, most of us, that he can, that there will be and that there will be other and other information that we need to know before we finally decide whether or not to accept this system. And I have to say, Mr. Koníček - not that I feel extremely sorry for him, but I think he knows that the files that might be on him will grow again. And I certainly can't imagine when the Finance Minister here is openly saying that the clerk is getting soda, so I doubt that it's good water with gas, but what it looks like in practice under the Labour Code, although maybe the labor code isn't so respected, because when the boss says something, he says it and basta fidli. And if he's able to say it, here - well, okay. I mean, if there's anyone who's resisting the boss, he gets a soda. All right, all right. I feel that one thing we agree on, and I do not want to, and I take it extremely seriously, that taxes need to be collected, and whether someone tried more or less, has made fewer or more mistakes in the past, in past governments, and whoever ruled, even if we have a different view of how taxes should look, otherwise the right sees it, otherwise the left sees it, but everyone who ruled was sincerely convinced that they were trying to do their best. In the meantime, there were others that the Minister of Finance and the first vice-president of this government are saying that while everyone here was allowed to rob, he was doing business here and became a billionaire, probably because of how badly these governments ruled here, and that is why he came from another country to the Czech Republic and started doing business here and was doing so well. I don't envy him, just like I think I do, and I don't agree with him when he says that everyone here is supposed to pay their taxes because the businessmen, the bad guys, they have to pay their taxes because they belong to these people, and so on. So I don't think business and entrepreneurs are primarily here to pay taxes, but they're here primarily because they're here, or they're doing business to support themselves, their family. They may have given jobs to people, but they're primarily here to do business, which is what the Deputy Prime Minister here confirmed. [[10.40 hours]] Last year, he said, and it can be traced from the log that he paid 800 about five or nine miles. CZK in taxes last year. He said 500 miles here yesterday or the day before yesterday, about 300 miles. less. Let's see how much less subsidies or more subsidies there will be. However, I guess he doesn't like them either. Even though I have to pay them, I have to sell the whole thing: I have paid so much and so much in taxes. It's natural, I'm not surprised. I guess anybody would. More or less every businessman does. However, every entrepreneur here does not have grant instruments in his hands so that he can influence what is happening in the area of subsidies. And that we have a subsidy system, that's for sure. We're here... Just like that. Systems in which we all begin to move because there is Internetization and different registers are created, different lists of people are created and about their existence etc. and the registers are starting to connect. We live in a world of e-mail communications and social networks where we learn anything. And we often learn things that we shouldn't know because someone's breaking into the system. The last public hack into the system is that when someone enters the Prime Minister's e-mail, it's probably not a normal thing to do. But apparently there's someone here who's interested in getting under the Prime Minister's coat. Well, that's something that should at least be a warning to all of us that if data isn't secured, if there's no chance and if we're not sure that data willn't get into unauthorized hands and be usable in favor, I'll say, competitive advantages, it's better not to run such a system at all. Because it can become dangerous for the very existence of this country, according to my deep conviction. I think it's obvious that the state is trying and not too happy. koneckonců all, the first vice-president of this government and vice-premier himself recently admitted that the inspection reports have their flaws and that it will need to be amended. And even though he said here today that it's an absolutely simple matter, there won't be any identification, I even wrote here his sentence, which he said here was just going to mark up the entire sales and everything else he would do with the software. Well, it's not as simple as it looks at first sight. I don't know if you've ever seen a check report, at least a pattern. If you've had a chance to look into it. It's going in the same trend as he was here. And when someone learns to fill it out, whoever doesn't have an accountant on hand every day to know what kind of invoice they belong to and where they're supposed to put it, whether they're on Section 2 or Section B2, or on Section A5, and where they actually belong, etc. If, during or at the end of the year, when the accountant comes to write him a tax statement, he won't say, "But please, you should have written somewhere else in January." And in February you should have written it in a different item. And this, you could admit it, the VAT, or you didn't have to, because there's a slippery system, and the Treasury and the professional accountant must know that. So it's not gonna be that easy. What is written is given, and taxes are placed on a date. So this is more than a tax return, isn't it? 'Cause he's got his own check on the tax return and the tax return all the way... This is some kind of information someone gets, but to what extent it's a felony when it happens that someone makes a mistake about it or not. And that the system will be wrong, I think it's obvious, and that almost everyone will be wrong, that's also clear. And that means that I can essentially choose who I'm gonna point to, and that's pretty clear. That the system is premeditated and has no head and heel, and that's actually the essence of what I'm here to say that it's not true that there's gonna be a whole lot of sales as a whole. For invoices over CZK 10,000, it is necessary to write out each invoice. Write the VAT number of the customer or supplier, that means who, for how much, when and on which invoice, because there must be a tax base written here etc. That means I'm already identifying who's doing business with me, and in this data, I send it to the Treasury Department monthly. And there's gonna be a clerk who maybe gets a soda from the finance minister when he finds out some of the data ran away. But it can cause incredible problems for the entrepreneur if the internal data of this type gets out. And it may not be just for the future internal data relating to Mr. Josef Novák, and I note that these may also be internal data relating to Andrej Babiš or others and others. That doesn't mean if I know everything about someone, that someone else won't know everything about me. [[Attention on time.]] Already? [[Already.]] Never mind. Then I have news for you that may surprise you with the link between the business sector and the upcoming state EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u57	Thank you. Mr Beznoska, please, and Mr Vilímec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech to the EET, a brief remark or two comments. One. I must join my colleagues who said that Mr. Chairman of Koníček's Audit Committee was prepared very precisely. I thank him for that, because I kind of imagine the President's work. The second point is to my colleague Pilný. I didn't want a technical or factual remark. Here he made a note saying that in the West, they're just gonna make a payment, so there's no need to completely implement things like EET. I'm sure you're just as much in touch with someone as I am. MasterCard. As far as payment of mobile applications is concerned, the Czech Republic is on top of the population. We're not far back. It's exactly the opposite. So just check it out, please. It's more like factual, so we can understand each other. And the third thing. I will go back to the problem of EET and recall some of the facts that have been raised here because I am one of those who says that the introduction of EET is really a classic example of an unnecessary law. We're still talking about it. How far we're supposed to give people space. What is the role of government, what is the role of Parliament, and how deeply we are to intervene in economic processes. I am one of the supporters of the fact that the simpler the rules and even I think that even the smaller the level of control that society can gradually cultivate. The moment you put a reprisal anywhere, wherever you add supervision, supervision, instructions on how to do it, it causes the opposite. People just naturally start defending themselves from this. [[10.50 hours]] So, personally, I don't think the law is good. He's not even well prepared. And as far as I'm concerned, I've missed it, and I'm missing a thorough analysis. There are a number of questions that I have not received from the explanatory report, and often, I will admit, the Minister's relatively substantive answers have answered the questions that I have about electronic sales records. So from this point of view, I think that approving this law as it is prepared is not a good procedure. At the same time, and I'm very worried here, I think it's not entirely a coincidence that the way I've been working here in the House for over two years, I'm watching the screws tighten all the time. That or those who are the real engine of the economy, and those are the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. That's the engine, that's the spirit, and that's the soul of the society that makes it a core, and the moment we process it like that, we keep pushing it, so I don't think it's space. I understand that the ambition of someone is to respect only large aggregated companies creating huge profits, but for me closer and for the life of society it is much more important to create the basic space for the smallest and small people who can take care of themselves, who hold their lives firmly in their hands. The first statement, I get to the stuff that I would like to disprove, and it's very often said from the government desks, of course, that entrepreneurs themselves claim that they want electronic sales records. I admit it and feel it in society that yes, the business sphere is to some extent torn apart, so it is not clear that everyone would welcome or reject. Yet, as I have found, in traceable surveys, I have found that in one of those surveys, I think it was the MEDIAN agency, it turns out that 56 percent of businessmen and entrepreneurs understand the electronic record of sales as a new administrative burden and some are even afraid of their liquidation. There is a large group, a little over 30 percent of respondents who were essentially unable and did not know exactly what electronic sales records would mean to them, and at the second pole - or 56 percent clearly against, 32 does not know - at the second pole there are only 8 percent of those who welcome the introduction of electronic sales records. That's what I think a probe is, however I once again admit a certain entrepreneurial ambience. So I believe that the idea is not and cannot be published from government benches as clear that entrepreneurs themselves would want to introduce electronic sales records. These polls are disproved. Very often, and I will get to that, and even today it has been mentioned, it is which countries have an electronic sales record system. The online system has, and it has been said here, only two, some countries are taking advantage of this register system, but it is not online, and what is very important and I am talking a little bit about it, as we are looking at the business sector and what is the difference between, say, the Western states, is that in our environment of the 13 last new Member States of the European Union, 11 introduces electronic records of sales in some form, because we still have something in us that is right when we have to control what we are to judge, whereas the original Member States do not have to and do this. So what happened in the very often mentioned Croatia? Electronic sales log works there since summer 2013. In addition to the fact that it was introduced, originally across the board, there were protests and EET does not apply to sales on the markets. One point at a time. All or most of you have certainly been to Croatia, you certainly have tried how EET works in practice. Not everywhere you get that ticket out of the register. Not to mention... [[A note from the diaper.]] A colleague everywhere, I didn't, and we were both in the same country. And despite the fact that I still have one short personal experience, when I found out what happened after the introduction of electronic sales records in Hungary. Well, the Maďar, according to the words of one of the businessmen in Budapest, were close to Parliament, and a colleague from KSČM was with me, who will confirm it to me, can bypass the EET software already. I have no doubt that anyone who wants to do business, steal and do tax fraud in the Czech Republic will soon come up with a similar type of system. It's just practical. So what happened in Croatia, at least to come back in the last two minutes. So VAT collection didn't actually show any changes. The benefit of registration cash registers was de facto none, although the tax collection of natural persons increased by 8.1% in 2014, but it was related to the cyclical development of the economy. The collection of corporate tax even decreased by 15 percent in 2014. In these years, i.e. in the years where I have the numbers, in 2013 and 2014, every year, and it is quite worth noting, 4 percent of the tradesmen, i.e. in two years, I don't know how it was in 2015, I haven't gotten the number yet, 8 percent of the small businessmen in Croatia have fallen. They quit in previous years because it's not quite unusual for businessmen to quit their activities because it's constantly oscillating, so it was about half. So you can see what caused the introduction of the EET to that targeted group of small entrepreneurs and businessmen. On the contrary, there have been an increase in companies in Croatia. This is proof that this system really rather records the big ones, the companies that we see from our point of view, I mean the government coalition, above all, but it certainly hurts those small ones who are doing business and guaranteeing their business with their entire property. I got on the first page of my eight, with another, at least part, I will introduce you to the next performance, unless the Vice-President suggests something that the opposition may not speak at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u59	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to be patient. I will read Mr Adam's apology, who apologizes today from 10 to the end of the day. Then there is a request to correct the apology, because Mr Kaňkovský was excused from 9.45 until the end of the day, while he apologized from 9 to 9.45, so please correct. Another apology is from Mr Šincl, who apologizes today from 11.30 to the end of the day. So many apologies. Now I have two factual points - if this is factual? No, in that case, I will give the floor to Mrs Lorencová with a factual remark, and then, with priority rights, President Kalousek will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u60	Mr President, fellow Members, in this avalanche of arguments that we are listening to, including from the opposition, it is clear that it is no other than that there is no transparent tax collection. To collect taxes where the law applies equally to everyone, it's just that this doesn't work. All these arguments and the opposition are actually talking about nothing else. For a while now, it seems like an obsession, like a spasm. Just stop it at any cost, so that there really is transparent tax collection. I think that interest in the tax collection being carried out as it should be, that is, that it should be clear that it should be paid, that it should concern everyone and that the Treasury should be filled with what it is to be filled with, that everyone should have, both the opposition and the government coalition. [[11.00 hours]] That's where the interest is, that should be absolutely clear. I can't understand that... what really feels like a spasm to me, that you don't feel it yourself, and you don't act on your own to make sure that taxes go to the Treasury the way they're supposed to go. If it comes down to some number of entrepreneurs going down... [[Mr Kalousek points to his watch and points to his time. Time!]] ... well, please, we have to count on that, I guess. . Yeah, but what kind of businessmen are they gonna be - [[Applause, laughter and screams from the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u61	My colleague, I am very sorry, but the time has passed for your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u62	With applause, you've taken away the chance to finish my sentence. [[Big noise in the hall]] . So please -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u63	Please don't let us have this argument. I'm on all the same subway. Please release President Kalousek. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 14th vote of today's meeting, Mrs Jermanová's proposal for two speeches. I supported the proposal, I voted in favour of making it more rapid. However, when I see this enormous interest, I find myself thinking that I have made a mistake. I think there may be more of us here, which is why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a revision of this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u65	Yes, so that's the procedure that's possible, assuming that here you voted in favour. . I believe you, I don't need proof. [[Member Kalousek gives his consent]] [[Protests from the O.R. Member Sklenák protests: This is not a procedural proposal.]] A colleague of Stanjura? [[Yes.]] Yes. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. The proposal is from President Kalousek to revise the resolution that was voted in the vote number 14, which was Mrs Jermanová's proposal, so that, according to the relevant Rules of Procedure, the time for Members to speak is limited, while at the same time limiting the number of Members speaking. There's a motion for a retreat. I'll check you all out. I ask for a new registration, and once the number is stable, we will vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to the motion to re-enact, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 18. It's registered 145, for 64, against 75. This proposal has not been adopted. With priority rights, President Sklenák wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u66	I voted before this vote. This proposal has not been adopted, but I am far from certain that this is a procedural proposal on a procedural vote that is voted immediately. I import that the opposition will now come every 20 minutes with the fact that we are going to re-revocate the vote that we have voted to limit the duration of each performance. I would therefore like Parliament's legislation to take a look at this, whether it is really possible to proceed in this way and immediately vote on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u67	Mr. Kalousek, please. Then President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u68	This was not a request for questioning, President Sklenák, by your means. This was a request for a review that only one who wants to change his vote can make. I supported you in this proposal by Mrs Jermanová, and then I came to the conclusion that this was a wrong decision. I can only do that, as far as I know, if I've been looking at the voting list... there was no one else, so this attempt is unrepeatable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u69	Yes, thank you. Mr. Laudát, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u70	Thank you, I would just add that what Mr Sklenák thought and did here by David Rath was a slightly different form, another paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. One. And two. I believe that it should be possible for Mrs Lorencová to finish her thoughts. Because she said exactly what Babiš was up to. I think it should be carved into stone. That's actually what she said in that sentence. Thank you. . [[Applause throughout the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u71	President Stanjura is withdrawing, so we will return to the debate. Mr Vilímec, please, and Mr Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The electronic record of sales was presented by Minister Babiš to us as an all-powerful recipe for better tax collection and subsequently as an instrument which so-called equals the business or market environment in the Czech Republic. When you look at the market-environment settlement argument, the government is increasingly drawing up this argument and it is becoming more of an argumentative cliché because it also introduces a control report to straighten the business environment. Maybe it would be nice to ask some marketing agencies if they could come up with another argument. It seems to me a little bit, even the debate and intentions of the Minister of Finance, as in the Midnight Kingdom, in the fairy tale The Proud Princess, whom we always love to watch at vánoce, when the tax collector rides and says - the shoemaker, pay! And the person says I don't. And he says, never mind, pay anyway! And as the Midnight Kingdom worked, we all know that. On 22 December last year, here in the House in connection with our efforts to postpone the annual VAT control report due to low preparedness, awareness and so on in the law of the draconian sanctions, the Minister said that it is for the Ministry of Finance that the control report is far more important than the electronic record of sales. I can quote it if I read it from the log. I quote that one sentence: you politicized the electronic record of sales - that was mainly directed by ODS and TOP 09 - and this - meant control reports to the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration - is significantly more important than electronic record of sales. So I don't know why the finance minister so resolutely tries to enforce something he considers irrelevant in the fight against tax evasion. During the previous debates in the House and at various expert meetings from the Minister's or his colleagues' mouth, there were many figures that would bring it all. What increase in tax revenues will occur if the EET is introduced. With the greatest popularity now, recently, the Minister is using the number 12,5 billion if the first two sectors are introduced, and 18 billion if the electronic record of sales is introduced. Even in the explanatory report, the minister has been divided into 12,5 billion. VAT is 5.5 billion, corporation tax is increased by 2 billion. and the income tax on natural persons from the return of another 5 billion. Crowns. I want to stop at the last five billion crowns. What is interesting is that when we recently approved the amendment to the Act on Budgetary Determination of Taxes here, and although the Minister initially did not enforce it, he eventually pushed for the abolition of the motivational component within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities. The Ministry's figures for the outlook for the collection of personal income tax at the expense of the tax return were in a completely different category than in some amount of 5 billion. Crowns. [[11.10 hours]] She recently performed on TV by profesor . Alena Vančurová, head of the Department of Public Finance of the University of Economics, and when she received a question about the relevance of such tax revenue estimates after the possible introduction of electronic sales records, she said - I quote: "I don't believe in tax evasion estimates, especially for personal income tax, because we have nothing to get out of, we have nothing to turn ourselves away from. I don't believe those estimates. You must have a fixed point and set a model for it." I therefore consider these estimates of the Minister to be more or less such promotional issues, because I believe that they are built more or less on completely clay legs. I, who performed in the first and second reading of this bill and also tabled amendments in the second reading in a detailed debate to fit in those ten minutes, because I do not intend to speed up my speech, for the reason that I do not force stenographers to record any results, although the Czech Republic is known for its excellent stenographers, but I do not want to do so, so I still want to touch on my amendments in the remaining time, because in that case I have to read the correction of legislative technical errors, as I have already announced on the Guarantee Budget Committee. The proposals I've made, the three proposals, I'm not making because I think we can improve the bill, it can't be improved, but for that reason, I can at least try to protect entrepreneurs and businessmen even more. So let me load the correction of the legislative technical error. So under the letter B2, I've read the delay of the time limit for the law to run into practice. After all, Mr Klaška also proposed it from the government coalition, and since there were about four words out there, which logically result from the amendment, I must read here. This means in point B2, after the text "§ 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b)'shall be supplemented by the following: "the fourth calendar month from the date." I would like to stop at two amendments B3 and B1. I consider Amendment B1 to be very important. This is the discharge of the fifth part of the law, which I believe will impose inadequate sanctions for infringements of the new obligations that I have already mentioned. Article 5 which I propose to dismiss, above all, because of the concern that the enforcement measures linked to the immediate closure of the establishment and the suspension of the activity are a very severe intervention, an intervention that can effectively destroy the taxpayer's business for years. Moreover, the law does not accept the possibility of appeal at all; it does not count on the error to happen on the part of the financial authorities. I therefore consider this inequality to be bullying, unnecessary bullying, and a dangerous weapon in the hands of the tax authorities. Of course, I have also read the speeches, and in detail, the Minister on 8 January, who stated that the powers of closure of the establishment are already under the control of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the Czech Trade Inspection. Yes, immediate closure of the establishment for breach of obligations e.g. under the Public Health Act, state supervision may be ordered only if the continuation of the establishment would result in a life or health threat. But I don't see the fact that a violation of the e-booking of sales law would have such an impact on the health of the population. It may cause psychological damage to a part of businessmen and entrepreneurs, but I do not think that such an instrument should be in the hands of the Financial Administration. Finally, the measures prepared by the Minister of Finance, and not only the electronic record of sales, but also, of course, the inspection report, lead to one thing: the people who want to do business are losing any incentive to continue this business. Isn't it really - and let's ask ourselves - better then to remain an employee in public or public administration or in companies, whether Andrej Babiš or other companies? He will pay badly for this bill, especially small companies in the countryside. That's why I wouldn't be surprised if the business after that, if he went through the bill, he'd wrap up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg Mr Liberty and Mr Martin Plíšek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that I am crucially determined to vote against the adoption of the Government's bill on the record of sales, and that is why I am speaking here to share this opinion with other Members and to try to convince them that the Government's bill is a bad proposal. This is a very important issue and the impact of this law can be in various spheres. I will then try to name some of these spheres from a new point of view in my speech. My colleague Lorencová, by your means, Mr President, I would like to say that the memoria est mater studio - repetition is the mother of wisdom. When we have a kid who slowly understands, we have to keep telling him that thing. It is only the repetition that will make him understand the idea, and the idea will go into his head. So the fact that something's happening here isn't a mistake. This is simply what the ancient Latins already knew that the journey of education is difficult, the path of repetition. You know, at school, the teacher tells you first, then you get homework, then there's a little turnaround, then there's a big turnaround, and you're finally gonna do it all over your senior year, and you don't know how to do it there. So memoria est mater studio and that should be the sentence that applies in the Chamber of Deputies. And I hope it's a deal. It does not bother me in any way when an extraordinary vote is raised here, and the President, in his capacity, will slowly repeat the whole name of why we are voting, slowly repeating all the numbers. [[Slowly speaking]] I understand - he needs to get his MPs back. That's part of the parliamentary material, too, and it's part of the repetition. One must learn to know that such steps are actually right, because they give the president the opportunity to fulfil the position that he has gained by being chairman of a majority coalition party. But the other side has exactly the same rights and has to use them in the same way. Before me, my colleague Vilímec - perhaps I don't have to quote through you - mentioned a proud princess and when you look into the fairy tale, you can also see that she says first: put on my slipper! And before they understand that this thing is impervious, it actually takes almost the whole fairy tale. So I hope that we will end up at least as the simplest educational, educational fairy tales that have a story in them, in the beginning there is some conflict of good with evil, the evil wins at the beginning and earns points, and the good with patient work, humiliation, humiliation and constant repetition of its good will eventually prevail and the good will prevail. [[11.20 hours]] Kids know such fairy tales, kids like them. We, although we are adults, also like them, because I must say that after a day in the Chamber of Deputies, I would not have something that will not have a happy ending, because I am so refreshed that I have become a very simple customer from this point of view. For me, filmmakers could only make movies with happy endings. I just want them to get married, and in the end, the glow of happiness has developed for everyone. I hope that, after our negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies, we will also occasionally succeed, that there will be a glow of understanding over this room and that we will be able to go home and say as you said on the seventh day when he looked back and saw that it was good what I did and did. Now, there's one more thing I'd like to talk about before I go back to my own topic of electronic sales. And it's a topic that a colleague of Koníček has given here. That's a very serious subject for me. For me, it is a very serious subject when I hear that some selection procedures are only theoretically on paper, that they did not take place, that some things are decided in advance, that some things do not have a financial cover, that some of these statements are not based on the truth. I've had an interesting experience with this. I go to court quite regularly, about once a month for about a week, not because I'd sign something illegally, that I'd give my consent to a tender that didn't take place. I go there because the whole council unanimously based on the materials at its disposal, based on expert opinions from external workers and after expressing the lawyers that this is the only possible step, so I was accused by the prosecutor and all the councilmen and we go to talk about it regularly. If I did something like what my colleague Koníček from the Audit Committee said, if some mayor at the City Hall had a supervisory committee over him who would say such things, I'm afraid the mayor would have to say "I'm resigning," because the problem of the State's Attorney would be very, very close to him. It's a very serious matter. We're all aware of that. The vast majority of us have spent our time in municipal politics and know how thin the ice is any tender procedure, how thin the ice is the most advantageous price, how thin the ice is for construction work, what we have to do to prevent our decision from becoming the target of attacking another force in the state represented by the prosecutors. In the Czech Republic, and I am slowly getting to the topic that I wanted to talk about, unfortunately, the stories from today were so intense that I really needed to deal with them and I had no idea that I would only have ten minutes to do it, but I hope that the other ten minutes that I had already signed up for will not be cancelled. If it were, I'd vote yes, because I still believe that in the end, no one will force me to put a shoe on someone, and in the end, maybe the good will win a little. There are approximately 970 thousand self-employed persons in the Czech Republic. That means that every fifth person of us has decided to take care of himself. I don't want to analyze which of you has experience with this, who has experience only with the employment relationship, but taking care of yourself is a very, very difficult thing. It means you have to have a purpose, you have to know something, you have to have some resources, you either borrow it, or you earned it from the previous jobs that you invest in, and you don't know if you'll ever get your funds back. You must put yourself at risk, such that the Chamber of Deputies will adopt some law that will fundamentally undermine your business. You even have to be ready for no vacation. I know from my beginnings that for a long time I couldn't even account for the crown that all the money had gone into practice. When it was the end of the month, I reached into the salary I received as a civil servant and invested it in the office to continue. And all these people have no right to benefits that normally guarantee an employment relationship. That's where you have your security. You have your salary, your contract, your pension, your vacation, your public holidays, your union organization. And as a businessman, you don't have any of that. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Well, you caught me off guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u75	I'm sorry, but time is relentless. I ask Mr Plíšek now and Mr Farský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u76	Mr President, my dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would like to propose, at the beginning of my speech, that the bill be returned back to second reading. I now want to justify this proposal. This is mainly because, until now, the petitioner has not responded to my fundamental reservations, which consisted in the fact that, in my view, this law is in a number of passages contrary to the law of the European Union and is unconstitutional. The Government's legislative board stated in its opinion that it continues to have significant doubts as to whether the introduction of records of sales and related obligations is in line with the principles enshrined in European Union legal acts, meaning the principles of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The European Union's instruments of incorporation talk about equal treatment of the State with business entities. This proposal, as we know, introduces a number of exceptions. Some subjects should be covered earlier, some later, some later. And here in this, and the Government's Legislative Council has stated this, there is clear unequal treatment of business entities and discrimination against certain business entities that are subject to inclusion in this sales record. Therefore, if we translate this from political speech, it is clear to us that the submitted government proposal is therefore contrary to the principles of European Union law. And I am surprised that, despite this warning from the Legislative Council of the Government, this proposal could have been tabled. This is, in my view, a legislative failure when the government consciously promotes a discriminatory standard limiting free competition. It is reasonable to believe that the European Commission or, where appropriate, the Court of Justice of the European Union will not be so benevolent and that it may, on the basis of this failure of the Government, if this proposal is approved, come to the Court of Justice of the European Union expensively in the event of financial penalties and fines, if the business entities which are discriminated against by this draft law are contacted by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Another of my fundamental reservations concerns compatibility with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This provides that obligations can only be imposed on entities under the law. As I mentioned, this law envisages that, under government regulations, sales that will be subject to registration may be temporarily removed, or, on the contrary, in the future, under government regulations, some business entities may be re-placed there when the temporary exemption expires. [[11.30 hours]] This is contrary to the admissibility of the law, the Constitution, because the Government's regulation is an implementing law issued by the Government and cannot therefore interfere with constitutional law in the sense that business entities which have an obligation to submit to the record of sales are to be clearly defined in the law and that obligation should be imposed on the basis of the law. To this day, the petitioner has not coped with this. I therefore logically submit a return of this printing to second reading. I must say that if the government coalition accidentally pushed or voted through this proposal by force, I hope that we will turn to the Constitutional Court in these two areas, i.e. in the area of discrimination and unequal treatment of business entities, that is, firstly, and secondly, we will challenge the constitutionality of those parts of the law which empower the government to classify and eliminate individual groups of entrepreneurs from the sales records contained in this law. In my opinion, this bill is also systemically bad for a number of other, illegal, non-legal reasons. It introduces completely unnecessary bureaucratic measures that will give the Ministry of Finance a perfect overview and monitoring of all national movements of goods and services, and the Minister of Finance will get information in the performance of his duties that he can use for the benefit of his business. So this law also contains a risk of conflict of interest. The law further ambitiously assumes that the electronic system, which will have to handle a huge amount of data, will be functioning seamlessly in a few months. This idea is not only really smiling in Czech real estates, regardless of the enormous cost of purchase and maintenance, which the explanatory report itself has given or stated undervaluedly. Only a seed bead can then be the state's anticipated interest in whether a receipt issued to them will be properly registered, which they will simply have to see. This law introduces a state-organized system of reporting, which, unfortunately, already has a tradition in Czech conditions, and so it can only be said that this is unfortunately nothing new in this regard. So, in conclusion, I would like to sum up my speech. The standard presented is not only contrary to the principles of European Union law, I add with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the principles of the law of the Czech Republic, it introduces a regular big brother, and the fulfilment of the purpose, i.e. an increase in the revenue of the state budget, is very questionable and dubious - we could see that even with the tax revenues that have been discussed here. It talks from 10 to 18 billion. annual, which is therefore a very large variance, and these are really just random unsubstantiated estimates. The cost of implementing the system will be very high and the expected revenues will be highly uncertain against this. This proposal can therefore be rejected legally and legally in principle. And I will, at the end of my speech, repeat my proposal that this press be returned for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u77	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. The rapporteur noted his proposal. And we will continue with Mr. Jan Farský speech. [[Member of Hajek reporting.]] And a colleague of Hájek. I apologize to my colleague Farský. I was taking the lead. So, a factual remark from Mr. Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u78	Good morning, Mr President. Firstly, I apologise for a little abuse of the Rules of Procedure and for responding to the factual comment made by my colleague Kučera. I'm sorry, but since I assume that the Vice-President is tolerant himself, he'll let me. My colleague Kučera here said that the Minister of Finance has been removed. I would like to quote a report from January 8, 2016: "Minister Mramor the top finance minister in Europe in 2016. The Banker magazine, of the Financial Times Group in London, selected by doktor Dušan Mramor, Slovak Minister of Finance, as European Finance Minister of the Year 2016. According to Stefanie Linhardt, the Banker ©s Europe editor, doktor Mramor was awarded the title of European Finance Minister of the Year for his contribution to Slovenia ending the recession and stabilising the Linhardt system, including his success in continuing privatization and implementing a comprehensive reform programme and activities leading towards the graduated consolidation of Slovenia ©s public finances." This means Czech - for the achievements that he has proved since the start of 2014 in the field of finance consolidation as Minister of Finance including the introduction of comprehensive reforms that led to him being awarded by the Minister of Finance of Europe of 2016. Mr. Kučera, please study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u79	Thank you for keeping time. This brought up one more factual comment by the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to all the customs, regulations and even the Rules of Procedure, if a language is used that not everyone can understand in this Chamber of Deputies, a Member or a Member has the right to require an interpreter. I would not go with this performance now if Mr. Hájek translated his English text into Czech literally. So next time, please, it's either that or the interpreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u81	Well, I don't think we're gonna complicate it. And we can continue by speaking with a colleague, Jan Farský. But if I don't take his time, I'm gonna ask for a little patience. Ladies and gentlemen, let me welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran, led by its Excellency Vice-President Aboutorabi Fard. [[Everyone in the hall and gallery gets up and claps.]] Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Farský, duly signed in, Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared. And I ask the House for peace so that a colleague of Farský can make his proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring this debate even slightly to the general level. As you all know, the state budget has its spending and income side. On the expense page, we learned from the Minister of Finance that some 200 billion will be wasted annually. Crowns. These are statements that he repeatedly made at the pre-election meetings, which, although slightly softened when he said that he was actually just saying that he didn't know exactly what the numbers were, but still 200 billion. The koruna is a very large sum. And that's the expenditure part of the budget. We're dealing with the revenue part of the budget now. We're talking about an illusionary increase in tax collection. Illusion in the sense that, of course, it is based on some calculations, where, as we can see, the quality of the evidence that the Ministry is based on is desperate. The BDO report, which was so beautifully questioned by individual Members here, but he also questioned the Minister by using numbers that are not in it, so if it is to be the basis for changing the business environment for 600,000 entrepreneurs, it is quite a desperate approach. The report was submitted last January. We are at the third reading, which has been held for several times, and we were only able to read the opinion on the Ministry of Finance's website on 18 January. [[11.40 hours]] At first, I wondered why the Minister was hiding this opinion, why he would not give us something he bought for the needs and support of his arguments for CZK 200,000. If you go through it, you'll understand very quickly. When you come across the roughs, when you encounter simple sum errors, you will understand that the Minister has been hiding this material for a year. And when individual activists asked for it, he refused to submit it to them. And when he presented it to them, 160 of the 190 or almost 200 pages were blackened. Not because there was some interesting, important, essential information to enforce the law, but because there was such nonsense that it was obvious that it would only complicate the enforcement of the law. I couldn't take it anymore. It's published at the last minute. And we can see on what basis 600,000 entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic are decided on the future. The revenue and expenditure page. I am convinced that, first of all, everyone should sweep away their own threshold, and first of all, we should be able to demonstrate to our citizens how we are dealing with the taxes that we are already collecting from them today. And let's ask ourselves whether the same criteria and the same obligations that the coalition plans to impose on 600,000 tradesmen, if hundreds of thousands of officials and politicians in this state are already in charge of the taxes they have collected. The answer is simple. And you've confirmed it by a number of votes submitted by the law. We're not gonna make it! There's a double standard here. When we discussed the Act on the Register of Contracts, a limit was added to it that only contracts over CZK 50,000 were published, because publishing contracts for lower amounts would be too much trouble for officials. Publication of invoices and orders - it came out completely and immediately. Even some companies have been excluded from this. After all, we will not bother companies by telling them that they will be obliged to tell citizens how they manage their taxes. But you want the same thing from businessmen today. The state will not show how it manages up to CZK 50,000, but tradesmen are to show how to manage each crown? I can't interpret it any other way than as abuse of power and arrogance of power. Another example is the current law - the Public Procurement Act. Look at the limits in which it will compete publicly: 2 million for services, 6 million for buildings. Lower amounts - you won't know about them. So we want a citizen to prove to us how to manage each of his crowns, but what he does in taxes is supposed to be covered in mystery? I'm sure this uneven attitude doesn't seem right to me. That's why I think that as long as the state of the rules it wants from others doesn't apply to itself, it doesn't have the right to demand those rules at all. As far as the electronic sales log itself is concerned, we're going with the cannon on the sparrow. Only 5% of tax evasion can be provided and affected by electronic sales log. 95 percent of the really big leaks, they don't touch it at all. The fact that it is even debatable what the effect of the data submission itself will be is very problematic. You're assuming that where you don't put paper today with a justification for "you're gonna get it cheaper" that someone's gonna start giving the papers? Why would he do that? They won't be reached again. The Minister of Finance has only chosen here as a big businessman, as the second richest person in the state, as the largest beneficiary of subsidies he has chosen one group of residents to point to it and say: You are responsible for the fact that municipalities do not have money. It's your fault there's no money for health care. It's your fault there's no pension money. But it's just a mist released. This is the minimum amount that the electronic record of sales for the state budget can get, but the huge billions that are not collected from this budget and that are disappearing, so those through this fog that the finance minister released, we don't see. And that's a huge shame. We've been talking about capturing 5% for so long, and we're not dealing with 95 percent of the leaks at all. And it's a simple number. Just take the Synthesia business. It's owned by the Minister of Finance, and three years later, he was in profit. It generated a net profit of CZK 1.8 billion. Do you know how much he paid in taxes? Do you know how much he paid on income tax when the net profit was 1.8 billion? Zero! Zero crowns. Yet he did not find it trivial to ask for a grant of 3.2 billion from the state budget. You can say it's just one of the finance minister's businesses, that it's just part of Agrofert, and that perhaps Agrofert runs things differently. Well, it's not like that. If you add up all the taxes that Agrofert pays, the income taxes that Agrofert pays, the subsidies are higher than the taxes paid. Agrofert pays less in taxes than he accepts in subsidies from taxpayers. And now we are in a situation where, as coalition MPs, you really don't find it garnering to turn to small businessmen, to 600,000 entrepreneurs, and say to them: we want to collect taxes after crowns to pay subsidies to big businessmen. It's the only way. Otherwise, the money doesn't flow. There aren't state budget holes clogging up with billions running away. Different rules are set for different entrepreneurs. And instead of catching the billion-dollar leaks that I put here, we're chasing the crowns on the lollipops sold, we're chasing the budget on the crowns on the individual markets. But that's just a mist released. You need to look at the big, problematic payoffs. The ones that make the 95 percent leaks. But can we expect this from the Minister of Finance who manages this way? I don't think so. We would probably expect that too much when he himself demanded the rules that he requires of others. That is my question - if it comes to you, and now I ask all the coalition MPs, if it seems fair to you and it seems normal to you from someone who doesn't pay taxes, and when they pay taxes, they choose them in a larger amount from the state on subsidies, to accept proposals that complicate the lives of 600 thousand citizens who will have to invest billions in technologies that will allow the state to monitor them at all. Meanwhile, billions will escape elsewhere, even in the finance minister's companies. If you read the opening article in Law today, you will read about how he drew a 50-million-dollar subsidy on Capi Nest - probably - we don't know how it will turn out yet - in a fraudulent way. Do you know how many of these businessmen are gonna have to put together for a $50 million grant? Do you know how many people prefer to leave business when the state approaches them in this way when it refers to them as cheaters, like those who rob the state budget, to those who rob communities, regions, pensioners for their money, who prefer to wrap it up? Is that the target? Is it intended that people in this state do not do business freely, so that they are not independent of the State? Is this the goal of a coalition where part of it is socialist, so it prefers employing people and employment conditions, and part of it is oligarchs, and they prefer huge entrepreneurs? [[Attention on time.]] That's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, the President of Laudat is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u84	Thank you. I'm making a procedural motion for the meeting to be adjourned until the petitioner arrives. I believe the petitioner should be present here. It's not true that he's responding factually to the questions that have been going on here in the past period. He answered questions he could use. Selectively. For example, I asked here how it is that I have doubts that the law is well processed in terms of authorisation, which means who can do what can be done. Based on what he's doing here with contracts and he's rudely attacking his colleague Koníček, it's clear that the laws are a liability to him, the rules that he runs not with agroferni property, but with state property, with taxpayers' property, not with his own, so it's nothing for him. That's harassment. That's a brake on his abilities. However, I would like you to vote on the procedural proposal now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u85	Yes. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will allow it to be voted on without debate. With the gong, I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. Once again, I will repeat the procedural proposal that we will be voting on. That sounds like we're going to interrupt this point until the petitioner returns to the hearing room, and that's the Minister of Finance. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 19, 117 Members and Members registered, for proposal 47, against 63. The result - was rejected. So we will continue to discuss this. I'm recording two more factual points here. First, Mrs Lorencová, and after that, Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u86	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to finish an idea that I could not finish in my previous speech. I was interrupted by a tempestuous applause from the right. Will the entrepreneurs die? Maybe I do. But who? Which ones? Which businessmen? I think those who just don't pay taxes. Let me remind you, I'm going to use my two minutes here to transfer money, cash payments, plastic bags, when state-owned businesses were sold into private hands, when they were paid without any record of money that no one knew where they came from. Over the years, it's been for your governments, and over the years, it's somehow gone into the blood of a part of the businessmen that taxes to survive just don't go away and take them away. Some to survive. Others because it was offered, so why wouldn't they take advantage of it? Today you look like their saviors, as supporters of those on whom injustice is committed. Where are you getting this? You guys set this up! For you, there have been gold chains, untaxed villas, money no one knows about to this day, where they came from. You guys put it in place, and today you're laughing at it and applauding it when I say there's gonna be less businessmen here. Yes! It's gonna be okay! Those who simply don't program tax, who tunnel and loot the Treasury will die!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u87	Thank you. I'll read the note that came to me. From 12 to 14 o'clock, the President of Stanjura apologizes. From 13:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Leo Luzar apologizes. Furthermore, from 10.49 to 14 for family reasons, Mr Sylor apologizes. I'm registering three more factual points. The first is the President, Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Svoboda. After him, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u88	Thank you. I'm just sorry to say that you don't mind that the material promoter isn't here. He's probably running around interviewing. You don't mind that your vice-chairman is already under investigation in several cases, and that's perfectly calm. You don't mind that he's taking taxpayers' money more than he's contributing to the Treasury. And you don't mind anything. You don't mind the fact that he is clearly not telling the truth about the steps that led to the preparation of the law, see Mr Koníček. And who's supposed to believe that? Really, I'm fascinated that so far you've managed to fool the public by trusting you that this law will really lead to a fight against fraudsters. I am very curious when KDU Members come into their electoral districts in Moravia and start telling those poor people who live so and do business and their biggest fault is that they want to take care of themselves and not go to social with their hands stretched out for benefits. I hope they count it for you. Because the reality is completely different. But the lying, that's what you do. But I am sorry that two democratic parties are part of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u89	Thank you. Another Mr Svoboda, President Kalousek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to put forward a procedural proposal in order to vote that the legislator may never be present in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm led by medical reasons not to have any heart attacks in the coalition, when they have to run for the hall in a hurry. So: the petitioner may never be present at the hearing of the bill presented by him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u91	I am afraid that this proposed procedural proposal is not voteable because it is in direct conflict with the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, if you insist, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u92	But then it is in direct conflict with the Rules of Procedure, as we have voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u93	I'm sorry, I didn't understand. Don't vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u94	I am merely stating that it is in direct conflict with the Rules of Procedure, as we have voted. That we admitted it by voting that he wouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u95	As I say, I think that, as the procedural proposal is made, it is indeed unvoting, because it is in direct conflict with the Rules of Procedure. Such procedural proposals cannot be voted on. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Kalousek. As a matter of fact, I'm sorry. Come on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u96	I agree with you that the proposal was unvoting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But then it was also contrary to the agreement of the Rules of Procedure that you had to vote on whether or not the petitioner should be here. There's just supposed to be one here under the Rules of Procedure. And by asking the House whether or not it should be here, you are actually in agreement with the opinion of the Professor Svoboda, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u97	I think it is best if we continue to discuss this point. I will therefore ask Mr Novotný, who is duly enrolled in the debate, to speak. Mr Novotný is excused, thank you. Mrs Pecková, with her contribution to the debate, is now duly signed up. And Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u98	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Because in the explanatory report on the proposal, which is only a tool to pursue small businessmen, Vice-President Babiš has inspired himself in Croatia and repeats it many times in the explanatory report, so I will return to Croatia with permission to do so and ask if the Croatian treatment is to be an inspiration for the Czech Republic. It has been a member of the OECD since 1996. She was the first member of the OECD from the countries of the former Soviet bloc and together with South Korea one of the two first countries outside the so-called the first world, outside advanced democratic countries with developed market economies and advanced GDP per capita. Membership in the OECD required the fulfilment of many rules, including those contained in the basic rules for the functioning of the OECD countries market. Croatia is not a member of the OECD to this day. In the renowned ranking and analyses of the World Bank Doing Business Group, Croatia is a total of 65 countries, while the Czech Republic 44. [[12.00 hours]] Yes, in this Doing Bussiness ranking, Croatia is doing much better than the Czech Republic in paying taxes, but when we look into the guts of those criteria, we find that the better assessment of Croatia in the criterion implies that Croatian payers spend an average of 208 hours per year on their reports, while Czechs almost double, specifically 413. There is no reason to believe that the number of these hours with the introduction of the EET will decrease. If we are to judge from the experience of Croatia, the opposite will occur. In Croatia, too, the number of hours spent on average by tax payers on a tax agenda has increased. The Croatian economy went through the longest crisis between all the economies of the European Union and was the last of the EU countries and of all the developed countries to recover from the recession that broke out as a result of the financial crisis in the United States. Only in 2015, after six years of recession, in which GDP decreased by more than 12 percent, do signs of first stabilisation and recovery. At the same time, however, it has deep structural problems, which are compared by some analysts to the structural problems behind the crisis in Greece. According to the International Monetary Fund and other reputable institutions, these fundamental problems, which have brought the Greek economy to the very edge of state bankruptcy and which we see in the Croatian economy, are an opaque control of businesses and a large extent of the link between the state sector and policy at all levels, a high proportion of loans in euro in both the private and state sectors. Croatia has been placed under the curate of the European Commission under the excessive debt management procedure and the unsustainable situation of public budgets. Fortunately, this never happened to the Czech Republic. In other words, Croatia has dealt with a very serious issue of public budgets. According to the gross debt of the Croatian public sector to GDP, it increased from around 30% in 2008, to 80 percent in 2013, 90 percent in 2015 and, despite all rescue measures under the excessive debt management procedure, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund continue to expect its growth in the next, or actually this year, to 95 percent. Both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund point out that although Croatia has taken relatively successful fiscal consolidation from the edge of the abyss, it still has a very long way to go before its economic and fiscal development is sustainable. First of all, it must privatise its large state sector, achieve separation of business structures and grey zones across the underworld from influence on politics and the public sector, and find solutions to structural problems on the expenditure side of public budgets. Croatia has unsustainablely high spending e.g. health care. Much higher than the average of the European Union. Croatia has long suffered from high unemployment. In June 2015, it was above 16 percent, and it is particularly high among young people aged 15 to 24, which still exceeds 43 percent. And at its peak in January 2013, it was even 52,5 %. The Croatian corporate sector is less competitive than the Czech. Its structure does not correspond to the demand outside Croatia and was largely frozen in the 1990s. Croatia needs to restructure businesses, substantially reform the labour market, and although it has introduced large reforms of education, its needs to increase the education of the population are significant compared with the Czech Republic and most of the European Union, and it will take years to visibly reflect on the competitiveness of the economy. A year ago, Fitch reduced the rating of the Croatian government's long-term liabilities even to BB level, and as you know, the long-term liabilities of the Czech government are rated by A+. The problems of the Croatian economy can therefore be briefly summed up by a motto: avoid the Greek road that is imminent. Czech Republic solves another problem - how to restore convergence to the most advanced economies of the European Union. The problems of the Croatian economy are deep and structural in nature. The fiscal measures implemented by the Croatian Government under the European Commission's curate were a rescue from the fall of the economy from the cliff to the abyss of unsustainable debts. Even in health care, when he fights to save his life, he uses a completely different treatment than when he wants to improve his quality of life and strengthen his health. The Czech economy is in a situation where it should strive to strengthen health and improve the quality of life. The Croatian economy fought to save itself from the worst. Following the Croatian example, Croatian treatment, is for the Czech economy, and now let everyone choose to themselves: smiling, irrelevant, alarming or damaging. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u99	Thank you, too, Madame. In fact, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš is reporting. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Well, that's incredible. I don't understand why you're here slandering Croatia. Croatia is the first destination of our citizens on vacation. And as far as I know, the Čech like Chorvat, so why are you slandering them? This is unbelievable. You guys are doing bear service here. What does Croatia have with the sales log? Just technology, state-of-the-art technology. You're talking about the Balkans. And what do you have against the Balkans? Yugoslavia and I have always had great relationships. And as far as I know, the first Vice-President... Well, don't laugh, Mrs. Němcová. Your first Vice-President was born in Belgrade. So what's your problem with the Balkans? Mrs Udženija was born in Belgrade. Do you have a problem with Yugoslavia? You don't like Chorvat? I like them. I like Srb, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u101	I will only ask you, Minister, to address you only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u102	Why are you here slandering the Balkans and Croatia? It's just technology. And I find it scandalous that you are still here slandering Croatia, which has nothing to do with it. Here you compare the economies of Croatia and the Czech Republic. What does that have to do with anything? It's just technology. So I would ask you, because our fellow citizens go on vacation to Croatia the most every year, so that you don't slander and insult them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u103	Thank you. I'm registering another factual remark. Once again, I repeat what I said: I ask you to address each other through me. Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u104	Thank you. I was looking forward to the Minister's approach to the speaker's counter to get an answer to my question, where should we look for relevant information? So I hope he dares to come back and I will. It is because you often return to the past, so do I, because sometimes your information flows remind me of the former information channel and that was Radio Jerevan. So if you could set the information sources straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u105	Thank you, Madame. Another point of fact is made by Mr Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u106	Mr President, colleagues, I apologise for the English, so it will not be the next time. It's just, my performance here has caused such misinformation behind the scenes that it's actually the price Mr. Kalousek received. It's not true. Mr Kalousek was awarded the international magazine Emerging Markets, e.g. Emerging Markets, for the best finance minister in the emerging European economies, while doktor Mramor was awarded the Banker Magazine magazine, it is Banker Magazine, Financial Times Group in London, it is the Financial Times Group, so please, these are two different awards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u107	Thank you. We will therefore now go to the duly signed up for the debate. I will ask Mr Michal Kučera to prepare Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u108	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words on the subject of electronic sales records and first, of course, to respond here to Minister Andrej Babiš, the half-truths and lies he is spreading. Of course, I love going to Croatia, Croatia is my favorite destination and I absolutely don't understand what it has to do with discussing electronic sales records, where we go on vacation. Maybe Minister Babiš can connect that. I don't see any connection. But what really puzzles me is that my colleague Mrs Pecková quoted here the facts of the International Monetary Fund on Croatia's economic situation, which the Minister of Finance called Babiš an insult and slander. That means, I don't know if the Minister of Finance believes the facts of the International Monetary Fund. Perhaps the members of the International Monetary Fund would appreciate his lecture and explain why their data are slander and insult. Maybe there are connections, and I'm the only one who can't see them. That, of course, is possible, I admit. However, I do not think that the facts of the International Monetary Fund would be any insult to anyone, but rather the subject of improving and determining the direction in which the economy should continue to evolve. That's how I see it, Minister Babiš sees it as an insult. I would like to point out here one thing that is not very often mentioned here, or rather marginally, and this is the explanatory report that we have received as Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the current House of Media on electronic records of sales. I believe we all had the opportunity and space to study the reason message. I would like to say that the explanatory memorandum itself seems to me that it is only some PR marketing product, I do not know what department, I do not want to mention Agrofert, because he does not like it, so probably some marketing department at the Ministry of Finance, but not as a basis for us to make objectively decisions as Members of the Chamber of Deputies. And what makes me say that? Of course, in the last few days, we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with BDO's analysis, which is one of Agrofert's main auditors, and at the same time processed the report for electronic sales records, and there are absolutely fundamental contradictions. There are absolutely fundamental contradictions, and the contradictions are so big that I'm really surprised that we're simply crossing them here. The report, we had yesterday, and it was mentioned here by my colleague Radim Holeček, subcommittee - privacy protection, where there was quite a substantive discussion, I appreciated it very much, with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, when we really looked at the technical side of electronic sales records, the possibilities of how the system, for example, has different protections, how data are protected there. It really was very material. And this is how I would imagine a discussion, not the marketing lectures that Minister Andrej Babiš lectures here. But there was one thing that when we just pointed out the contradiction, I had the performance there that I saw the contradiction between the explanatory report and the BDO study, it said that the study was, of course, obsolete. I just want to point out that the study was made in February, at least according to the date that's there, so I'm going to believe that that's what it is, that means it was created in February, and we got the House press, the explanatory memorandum to the House system, 4. 6. 2015. This means that fundamental objections, which seem to have been raised in terms of security as regards data protection as far as risks are concerned, have probably been resolved within two months and have even been resolved to such a stage that it was not even worth mentioning in the explanatory report. It wasn't even worth mentioning them to so-called. RIA, where you look at it, you find the same positives that electronic sales log brings. That means we'll read the explanatory note - there are all the positives, but even more positives are in the RIA risk assessment. Risk assessment, I'm warning you, it's called. However, there is only positive information of a marketing nature. In our discussion yesterday, of course, we had the biggest questions in the direction of the security of the whole system. I have already pointed out here that, for example, the choice of inappropriate technology is critical in the risk catalogue at the level of significance, according to the BDO study. Critical, I'm warning you! This means that this is really something that had to be handled very carefully, and at the same time the probability of occurrence is point four, which means likely. During the two months that the BDO study actually became obsolete, according to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Minister Babiš, so in those two months, the criterion that is here among the critical has probably become quite common has been resolved that it was not even worth mentioning it in that explanatory report, which, I warn you, is the only basis for the Chamber of Deputies to decide whether to raise our hand for electronic records of sales or not. Another extremely serious point is the safety risk. Security risks - probability level five, that means bordering with certainty. I'm warning you, bordering with certainty. Those are security risks. If we look at the explanatory report, the safety risks are zero. Zero! That means the security risks are not mentioned at all. And I would really like to ask Minister Babiš how he works, what the level of his work is. I would say very, very poor, because if BDO, I really don't want to question it, on the contrary, I think she did a very good job, although the study obviously has some shortcomings, but this is how the study should be handled. I understand that. If this study draws attention to the fundamental risks, why did it not mention those risks to us in the explanatory memorandum, then why did it not mention them to the Chamber of Deputies? Can Minister Babiš explain this to us? What's he trying to keep from us? Or does he just want to follow marketing instructions that he keeps telling us around here? It seems to me that the number of pages is not so important that Minister Babiš has just ripped out one page from the whole study, whatever the number of pages he has, whether Mr koníček is right, or Minister Babiš, that the number of pages is not so important that Minister Babiš has just pulled out one page and the page is called PR perception and the concept that says: All communication will try to convince citizens in a natural and non-violent way that tax requirements are beneficial for them and the use of ways to save tax cuts will ultimately damage the comfort of every citizen of the Czech Republic. So this is the main sentence that Minister Babiš has taken from all over the report, and he's constantly talking about how there's no tax here, how there are thieves from the businessmen's parties, the shoplifters who steal the hairdressers and the physical therapists and the ladies who do the nails, they're the biggest thieves and the biggest pests in our economy, and that's the only information we've learned here from Minister Babiš. And he has withheld the absolutely fundamental risks mentioned in the BDO report, because I think the only crucial document for the decision-making of the Chamber of Deputies is the explanatory memorandum and the House press that we have put into the system. There is nothing about these risks, they are not mentioned there and it is only a clear marketing and populist product of Andrej Babiš's Finance Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u109	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I note one factual remark made by Mr Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to comment on the so-called critical points of the project. Every application and every agenda that goes into virtual space on the Internet always carries a security risk. That's no question. Those who want to challenge these agendas are always one step ahead. And there is a need to distinguish critical agendas, such as: the operation of nuclear power plants or other agendas that threaten the lives and security of citizens, from an agenda that is purely economic. If this system collapses, nothing will happen, because when the system is restored, the data can be uploaded as offline as it is designed. That's one thing. Second thing. In the data repository and its security will also be part of the claude strategy operated by the Czech government, and the repository must be because there will be far more critical data than the EET data, it must be secured and secured in a standard manner. I visited the Ministry of Finance and talked to people who are in charge of the security of these agendas, and I have to tell you that I have been satisfied with their answers, regardless of what the report says. The agenda will be adequately secured, because it is also a question of price. Critical agendas, their security costs a lot, they need to be addressed. These agendas are not critical, this does not mean that they should not be secured, but it is a question of how much it will cost, and the way it will be done to me personally, and I have some experience in IT, seems appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u111	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u112	Thank you for your word. I would like more or less to agree with what my previous speaker, Mr Pilný, said here. That's really true. I agree with that, and I even think that, based on the way people from the Ministry of Finance performed yesterday, they are really addressing the issue and are actually taking a number of steps to minimise security risks. That's exactly right. I'm asking why we haven't been alerted to them in the explanatory memorandum. Why the explanatory memorandum is absolutely unbalanced, why it acts as a marketing PR product, and why it doesn't say yes, it carries these risks and we're going to deal with these risks that way and so on. That's what I'd consider perfectly correct, and that's what the whole debate is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u113	Thank you. Now, duly signed up for the debate, the first is Mrs Nina Nováková and Mr Vácha will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me also use my ten minutes allocated to try to convey one fact. We certainly can't deny the Minister of Finance that he wouldn't try to explain things. As a teacher, I know it's just so hard. If someone doesn't want to understand something or even if they want to understand it and they can't understand it, then there are two options. Either I'm misinterpreting it, or I can't agree with it. A little similar may be happening in the debates on the introduction of electronic sales records. I don't think that's just because I'm an opposition MP. I believe that you also receive similar statements from other coalition Members. There are still large groups that have failed to convince and now let's ask why. That'll give a little heads-up about what I said at the beginning. For example, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers does not give way at all from its original... virtually. not a priori spoken, but gradually obtained opinion. They themselves say that when this proposal came in that they tried to collect as much information as possible, because here often sounds Croatia, so they tried to obtain information about Croatia, but also about the state of tax collection in our country. They tried to monitor the comparison of the grey economy in our country with the grey economy in other European countries. Of course, they collected information, even about who actually has an EET in Europe and who doesn't, and on the basis of what assumptions, on what arguments they made. And the resumé is, we started to get the impression that we may have wronged the Treasury people a little bit. Maybe they didn't do the wrong job, etc. etc. But in the end, they refuse, even though they have thought it through very well. I am neither an entrepreneur nor an economist, I certainly understand more in depth than this matter. But as a Member, I must defend my interests from the moment I took the parliamentary oath, of all citizens, even of those who did not vote for me. I think that maybe it would be quite good if the Minister of Finance, Mr President, had also come to realize that at some point in time, too. Now I quote from the opinion of the Association of Entrepreneurs. Why is he doing this - that is, the Minister of Finance - hard to say. Many speculate that he does not like businessmen and that he wants to make their lives miserable so that they stop doing business and compete with the big ones that Andrej Babiš is betting on. I certainly don't want to hurt my fellow Member, by your means, Mr President, whose saying that if a few entrepreneurs go down, then what happens, a few companies. We reacted so violently to that. I certainly do not want to touch her in any way, but it is obvious that this idea was not only born in the heads of our opposition Members, but that it was born in the heads of those who are very thinking about it because they care terribly. The Association of Entrepreneurs is definitely a social group that matters a lot. I could, and I don't want to quote numbers because it's been falling here a lot. I'm sure the finance minister's turn to say that they're misleading, that they're stupid, that we haven't read it. I read it, but most importantly, it was read by those who were really directly involved. Interesting thing is, it just fell from a fellow Member of Mr Kučera that it's like this -- well, what do you think? Those who do fingernails and those really tiny businessmen, entrepreneurs. Let's not argue about the terms that they're most afraid of you. Yes, they're just afraid because for many of them - and I'll give an example right away. For many of them, business or business is not the main purpose of the whole time. They are people, especially women who care about families, children. They have no ambition to become an entrepreneur. That's why they see it as very burdensome, threatening when someone from someone they can trust, and that's a number of businessmen, a number of small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, from someone they logically come to ask and they tell them it's wrong. And these people are gonna get scared. But we and their little earnings, now I'm sure the Minister of Finance might object to me, who they are, etc. But we're doing well, virtually. The Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance is succeeding in making a large part of our citizens insecure. It is simply because, while there is a great deal of effort to explain the benefits of the EET, the arguments against the other scale are equally important. The result is a complete uncertainty especially of the smaller entrepreneurs or businessmen. [[12.30 hours]] The last reaction I have, ladies and gentlemen, had to meet is something that many may laugh about, a company that spreads through small sales representatives cosmetic products. It is Avon, one of the world's largest cosmetics companies, operating in 100 markets around the world. We will either laugh or take it seriously that this company warns that if it does nothing, no business, no business that is not illegal, but is in some way atypical, and that is the way Avon trades, it does not mean that it is incorrect. And this company itself is not worried that it couldn't handle anything that we've been talking about, but it can live because it provides a profit to hundreds, thousands, people who also have it as a small profit. And it's the uncertainty of the atmosphere that's gonna damage this company, or there's reasonable concern that it's gonna damage it. I think it's right to point out that I don't use Avon products at all or distribute them. But I'm used to listening to every logical and serious argument. In conclusion, because I was not allowed to speak, I would still like to say that I can also say in some way emotionally and in a very human way impressed the verbally sharp discussion, although not unfairly conducted, between Mr Koníček and the Minister of Finance. I didn't draw a line about how many times a vulgar word was said here. I rarely use it. Those who said it was wrong had to use it. I guess it's good to say--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u115	I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u116	Yes, it's good to think about what "faggot" means. It means persecution, it means a different term for bullying. And I'm convinced -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u117	I am sorry, Madame, but time really applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u118	I am convinced that the Minister here is neither bullied nor persecuted. That's why his word, apart from the fact that it's vulgar, is completely irrelevant. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u119	Thank you. A factual comment is made - in that case, Minister Babiš is reporting with a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. In fact, this is where the opposition acts, always pretending to have no information that they don't know anything. We've done it a hundred times. So I'd like to challenge you all right now, come to the Treasury Department, we'll book on you all day, and it'll show up if you're doing it for the people or for this camera. This camera, it's important to you that the lies you're doing - if you really want to debate, come to us. And there will be all the people who are working on it, the financial administration, the legislation, there will be 20-30 people, and there will be answers to all the questions. We can upload it to the camera so you won't be deprived of the media output. And then we can show it to everyone if you really want to discuss it normally. Come on, I'll buy you a drink. The ODS here complained we weren't discussing, so you're all invited. If anyone's interested, sign up for me, and I'll be happy to organize it. I don't have a problem. We'll answer everything, everything. We have nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u121	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u122	Thank you for the floor. So far, everything you've answered - I don't want to blame the entire Ministry of Finance - has been false and mystifying, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u123	I'll ask you to address the Minister - no, you can address the Minister directly. You're right, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u124	He can take it. As an example, we can mention a study that you have finally released for the public for three quarters of a year, a study that has 186 pages, but you only have 185, but you promised publicly that you would find the 186th side, that's nice of you. I recommend inviting Jiří Ovčáček to cooperate, he has his experience with finding archival materials, let him start at the top left. However, whether you find the site or not, the study you've been coming out of, and on the basis of which you're offering us your miracle, is crawling with arithmetical errors, so much. Someone just couldn't add up. And they're also crawling with rough spelling mistakes, which I don't think they should have such material released for the House and for the public. So I think it will be quite fair of me, if, Minister, you want to talk in these factual and precise arguments, and you put something in here that doesn't agree in totals, so I think it's quite fair to propose to the Chamber of Deputies to interrupt this extraordinary meeting until the Treasury corrects gross arithmetical errors and gross spelling errors in its study, which it published. Thank you. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] That's exactly what the procedural proposal sounds like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u125	As this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. First, I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. I will ask for a little more patience, because Members are still coming. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, as it has been put forward, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 20, 132 Members and Members registered, for proposal 58, against 65. This proposal was rejected. I'm registering two factual points here. That will be the third, okay, Mr. Chairman. The first point of fact is - if you have exchanged order, in that case, Mr President, you can speak and cut off Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u126	Thank you for the floor, and thank you, my colleague Laudát. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect in humility that you do not wish to correct the study from which the Ministry of Finance came out. But I assure you that there are many pages where you will find quite fundamental errors, that there you will find pages that contradict each other, and I am not talking about spelling mistakes. After all, the Minister has the right to them as an immigrant. But the totals, they just don't add up. The costs they're telling you aren't true. You sure you don't mind? You're willing to continue to act and vote, even though you can calculate by simple numbers that the Treasury is lying to you? That's what you've just voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u127	Thank you, too. Now with a point of fact, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's the democratic debate. It's a joke. It's a joke. Because, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, to keep it. If you were sitting here, I already told you why there's one side less. Well, that's a very important problem. The inspection committee should check why there's one side less. What a scandal! Well, because they flipped it from PDF, I told you the other day that some kind of system -- they put it in Word, imagine. So this one study from PDF went to Word, and that's what happened that there's one side more. I think the citizens of this country need to see what important problems we're dealing with here - that we've turned the study over to Word. One side is less. Or more, I don't know, it doesn't really matter, at least for me. So please debate this, discuss tax fraud and tell people why you did nothing like the Minister of Finance for tax collection. Why? Why did you raise taxes on people instead of chasing those crooks? So one page, that's scandalous, really. And again, I challenge you, come to the Treasury Department, we'll spend a week, two weeks, a month, if it's anything. But it's about nothing so far!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u129	Thank you. Now, therefore, with Mrs Věra Kovářová's factual remark, after which Mr Korte will be prepared. And I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues to keep it down so that we understand what they say here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u130	When the minister approached his counter, I lived in the hope of getting an answer to my question. You said - not next time, today, here on the cameras, not at the Ministry, here on the cameras. You said a year's traffic would cost 170 miles. Here at BDO, that's the beautiful total table where your expert firm dropped by about 90 miles. In sum, it is written that the annual operation will be 396 million. [[shows a sheet of paper]] So if you could briefly, it won't delay the whole negotiation, answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u131	Thank you. Now, Mr Korte, Mrs Němcová will be prepared with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u132	Minister, you have called the House of Deputies a joke. I shall warn you that this is an insult to 199 Members, you cannot insult yourself. You respond naughtyly to every question you get. You consider it impertinence, a faggot, I don't know what else. Remember, you are the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic. You are obliged not only to listen to the questions we ask you, but also to answer them, because the government answers to this Chamber of Deputies. Minister, be so kind as to read the Constitution of the Czech Republic at last!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u133	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Němcová, Mr Hájek will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u134	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say to the Minister of Finance that all of us have been elected as representatives of our citizens to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We were not elected to represent our citizens at the Ministry of Finance. First of all. That's why we're gonna come here and not go to the Treasury. Secondly, if the Minister here was telling us how he launched a soda against his employee, who didn't put one contract on the Ministry of Finance's website, and he himself presents to us as a finance minister who can't count, things that are full of mathematical errors, what do you expect? That we're gonna praise you? That you will be able to keep your employees in line just because they forgot to publish a little detail from my point of view, but you, who present material of a vital nature full of confusion - so you expect us to praise you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u135	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Hájek, Mr Kalousek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u136	vážený President. I was deeply touched by the word of Mr Kalousek, who called citizens with Slovak nationality to be migrants. My mother-in-law was and still is - or was, I'm sorry, I'm going to say - she was a citizen of the Czechoslovak Republic and she was a Slovak national. [[Laughs from Members]] After 1992 she became a citizen of the Czech Republic and she didn't emigrate here, she stood, I think, still a member of our beautiful homeland, divided today, and didn't emigrate here, she was still here, she is and I hope she will be here for a long time. So please do not call the citizens of the Slovak Republic who are citizens of the Czech Republic today that they are immigrants. There are no immigrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u137	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek and then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u138	Some yes, some no, Mr Hájek, through Madam President, your mistress is not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u139	I am Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u140	- Mr President. Your mistress is not an immigrant, Mr. Andrej Babiš is an immigrant, and it doesn't matter. An immigrant isn't a dirty word. The fact is that some immigrants are very dangerous to this country, specifically Minister Babiš says he does not want them here. Some immigrants are good for this country. Let everyone consider that. But about what you refused to fix, one example for all of you, please. Your calculators or pencils, please. Do you know what 199 + 80 + 34 + 30 + 3 + 7 + 7 + 36 is? It's really 396. But Minister Babiš tells you it's 308, so the operating costs won't be 396 miles. A year, but 308 miles. per year. At the investment, it was better there, it was only six miles away. There isn't one sum right! And that's the study that's based on the bill that you want to make here. And you really don't want at least the study to be aligned with arithmetical numbers when the person can no longer bring it into line with the principles of the Czech language?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u141	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and Mr Jandák will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u142	Thank you, Mr President. To clarify the clown shop. I wasn't talking about all the MPs. I was talking about the members of the TOP 09. That's the clown shop. You guys are performing and talking about horrible, scandalous things. That there's one side less because it flipped from PDF to Word... Yeah, and BDO studies... well, they didn't do it right, no. Well, that's awful, but... Now that's like... that's really so important, because I think the finance minister is supposed to be checking all the studies at the Treasury. BDO miscounted it. It's not our company, it's been chosen by colleagues. They chose, they miscounted it. And those figures are just estimates, Mrs Kovářová, those are just estimates, through Mr President. How do you want exact numbers from me when you're doing everything you can to make sure the law isn't passed? If someone filed a criminal complaint, we wouldn't do anything at all. You're doing everything against the law. So please, what are you asking me? Either you don't understand or you don't ask me. And try asking what the studies are. That's some kind of preliminary estimate, a marketing study. Yes, it's a study. It's some kind of guess. And if the law is passed and we can finally get to the choice of suppliers, then we'll know the exact numbers. So your questions are pointless, and I can't answer them. And when Mrs Němcová has a problem coming to the Ministry of Finance through the President, then let me call all the relevant members of the Ministry of Finance here, let them be present and answer you online for everything. Because I, as the finance minister, who has 25,000 employees, can't know everything. So unless it's just a theater and a clown show on camera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u143	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Jandák, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand. My dad always told me, if you don't understand it, just get over it and look at it from, like, 20 feet. Now I'm gonna say what I think, what's going on. The opposition doesn't want to accept this law, it wants to save the nation, it wants to save this government, which it is supposed to act against. That's right, isn't it? It is. The Coalition wants that bill. We're in a democratic society. You're warning us about Babiš. Okay. Christ, why aren't you a little more sophisticated? You know it's wrong for him to rush into the abyss, so let him fall there and accept the law. Or stay, we'll accept him. And you'll see what happens in the next election. I'm sure you'll win. [[Fun in the hall.]] I remember, for example. To Minister Drábek, he was a genius! From this place, I begged him not to take money from old people. He was very gorgeous to me. Yet he took them away from them and took money from those cripples. You know, so I've learned my lesson, and so should you. He doesn't want to fall in there, that Babiš, and you won't bother us or yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u145	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Kovářová's point of fact and after that, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u146	As is known, Mr Jandák always makes it difficult to perform after his beautiful acting ethos. The minister spoke of a clown shop, but what's going on here? This, of course, is a simple sum. But let me get this straight. In the BDO report, the annual operating costs are 308 million. Miscounted, error is almost 20 percent, 396 miles. That's what it's supposed to be. But you said 170 miles. and that's what's going on here. See if you can give us the right readings. It is clear that these are estimates, but if we estimate or estimate BDO 308, respectively. 396 miles, you estimate 170? Well, if that's how you do it with the state budget, then we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u147	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact. President Kalousek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you're not going to applaud me so fiercely, but to Mr. Jandák. There are two categories of politicians - those who only care about power, and that's actually the only base they have. And they actually did things here that harmed our country, even at the cost of getting to power. This was the overthrow of the government one month before the end of the Presidency. It damaged us, until today the world remembers it, it was unique. No other country out of those 27 did it. We don't have that conscience when someone brings in a piece of junk like this, where processors can't even add up, it's normal, Minister, that you would say this pasculi to return the money. It's normal for someone to supply you with the wrong product by claiming it, and if the complaint is justified, if the BDO or anybody can't add up, you're going to give the CZK 199,000 back. I really can't do this. Of course, they're estimates, but that doesn't lie to anybody, that even if they're estimates, the totals should be accurate. And I'm afraid that you have staffed the Ministry of Finance and from your ministry - and it didn't used to be, the memorials will confirm it, by custom, that specially from this ministry went to the House of Laws and Real Estate, just like they do now. I don't know how you're gonna run the Ministry. There will be complex standards in the future, you may even miss some European implementations that are very complex. Do you realize that you can bring the Czech Republic into chaos through this behavior and the state of the institution for which you are responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u149	Thank you, too. I'll read the note before I give you my word, Mr. Chairman. Today from 14 to 17 he apologizes... No, 26th. 1. Apologizes from 14 to 17 Mr Běhounek, on 26 January from 14 to 17 o'clock Mrs Alena Nohavová, today from 11.45 to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes and from today's meeting from 14 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please, Mr President, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Minister's statement on the study that the Ministry of Finance has paid, ordered and published is enough to illustrate how seriously we are working on this law. Please, what you're lying about is what the Minister said, that's not what we as the Treasury Department say, that's what a study says, that's what colleagues ordered. If someone messed up the VAT control reports, please don't mess up the Minister, it's his Financial Administration that screwed up. If someone orders and doesn't say a bad study, it's not the Minister's fault, it's just colleagues. The Ministry is the Monocratic Authority, and before us the responsibility, even before the Constitution, is you, Minister. You ordered this study, you paid for it, and you released it to the public so that we could all read inaccurate numbers. Please, I'd still agree with that if it's an estimate. But the central body of the government may have the right to exact sums if it gives taxpayers money for it. It's not a company study, it's a taxpayer study, because the taxpayers paid for it by your decision. And if you took over this pasquil, paid and didn't say, it's on the verge of criminal prosecution, in my opinion. But I'm not the one to criminalize political decisions. But based on this study, we really don't want to make decisions, because it's obvious from your reason report that you guys were drawing from this mess. That means, you're convincing us here about something that doesn't work, what we see specifically in Croatia, that it doesn't work, and when you lean on the implementation study that you've had your work done, we find that they couldn't even add up at third grade school. And you're okay with it! It's just supposed to be 396, the numbers that are listed, and it's 308! [[I'm sorry, your time!]] But that's good, the Minister means well! And you're voting for it? Colleagues!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u151	Now, with a point of fact, President Laudát, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. [[A Member of the Laudat won't perform.]] In that case, I will ask Mr Petr Bendl and Mr Jan Volný will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u152	Thank you for the floor. I would like a factual comment on the Margo of my colleague Jandák, who is not here, my esteemed colleague Jandák. Ah, there's probably a smoke in the corner. The dilemma is whether to save the government or not to save the government, that's settled. Saving the government so that we don't all mention the name of Mr. Babiš here, so I'll deliver others, like my colleagues Dienstbier etc., I don't see the slightest reason to defend this. Because it's not about this government. It is about what we are dealing with here and what will happen to people if we are convinced, unlike you, that the adoption of this legislation will bring down a number of entrepreneurs and thus irreversible changes. We're gonna cancel or change a lot of things that you're gonna decide on here today, but something's gonna be irreversible changes. These people are gonna go bankrupt, shut down their business activities, and they're not gonna have the strength to go back to something we want them to do today. [[unintelligible]] So in this respect, we are so principled here today that we care so much that we are taking every democratically given opportunity to prevent you from doing something that will no longer have reversible changes. [[13.00 hours]] We're here criticizing the tax budget bill, which is somehow set up, the smoking bill, which this government also made up. And I don't want to save her either. Here are a number of such legislative steps, where we very much appreciate whether to even come up with an amendment and help it. But so far, it's always decided who's going to get the legislation. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And that's what we're protecting. Certainly not this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u153	Thank you. Now, Mr Volný with a point of fact. After that, Mr. Jandák. [[The MPs agreed to change their order.]] It is not possible to work in this way with the order of Members attached. I'm canceling your point of order, and when it comes to your turn, I'm giving it to you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u154	You're good. I'm here. I just wanted to thank my esteemed colleague for the words he said here. I'm serious. This shows a certain development that the ODS is experiencing. Because until recently, they actually sat here with the person, and now I can name them, only Mr. Drábek, and now you can see that you're on. But you know what the worst part is? Two little comments. This government was created by the will of the people, so you defend the people, but most said no to you and this government did. Watch it. You know, political experience is very important. She's quick to forget, but she's important. And the experience of those Drabs and others is still here. Let the Babiš drown. Try it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u155	Thank you. Two more factual points. First President Kalousek, followed by Mr Volný. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u156	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I do not question that the government was created by the will of the people, but by the will of the people we are all here. And each of us has a duty to defend the interests of those who have elected him here and even those who have not elected him here, provided that he is 100% convinced that what is being put forward will damage everyone. I'm 100% convinced of that. If I present to you, Mr Jandák, such a very simple proof that the genius machine that has presented it to you and said "this is a cure for all ills," it can't even add up because it can't, but on the basis of these final numbers, the Ministry of Finance has prepared a reasoned report and submitted a bill if any IT expert you show the study to, and you have one of them at home, as far as I know, will tell you that it's an absolute pasquil, so you might, along with us, be able to think about whether or not what they really wanted to approve here, because you believe it is true. I offer you the simplest tool that I have no doubt you are orienting in, a simple arithmetic sum of seven two-digit and three-digit numbers, where the exact calculation is 396 but the minister tells you it's 308. And it's nothing less than annual costs in millions. If the 82-year cost in millions is a detail for you, I assure you, not for me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u157	Thank you. Mr Volný now, Mr Bendl will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I gave Slávek priority because now I'm gonna nigger him a little bit. I don't agree with him. Considering that half of Europe has a record of sales, and the other one is introducing it, I don't expect these states to be run by idiots. Personally, I don't think it's the opposition that thinks it's the wrong law. They know that this is a good law and that it will move the Czech Republic and the Czech economy back to Europe! And it will turn out that this law will create a level playing field for the market and free the hands of honest entrepreneurs! And they're panicked at the fact that one day the voters will ask, "Why hasn't it already been introduced?" I have this impression that's what it looks like. This is basically confirmed by the argument of my colleague Kalousek, who will catch on to $90 million. Yes, it's not small money, but basically it's not legal for the Ministry of Finance to do any more serious calculations, serious studies that are backed up by serious price offers from companies that will implement it someday. [[Cheer and applause in the right side of the hall.]] And they can't do that. They have to be based on some studies. And if it is now essential before this law to discuss whether 30 or 20 percent is too much or not, the difference between these two interpretations, I am sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u159	Before we go any further, I'll read an apology. Mr Jiří Štětina, for personal reasons, apologizes from today's meeting between 13:00 and the end of the meeting. Mr Bendl and Mr Kalousek are now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u160	One more time for Jandák's margo colleagues. I'll use his words, "It's not about Babiš." And I'm sorry to repeat what happened here. I might be happy that once some clerk, who then gets a soda, lets out all the invoices that Agrofert has, maybe we'll all have fun, 'cause that's how it's gonna be online. We'll all know who they're buying from, who they're selling to, how much, where we got over $10,000, and we'll all have it online. In theory, I should be happy about it. But he's gonna do it to himself, while a lot of people aren't gonna be responsible for that. Everyone will read everything that's know-how to them, what's important to them so they can work and do business. That's the core of the poodle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u161	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u162	Thank you. Forgive me, Mr Freeman through Mr President. And I'm calling you more rhetorical because I'm more interested in reaching out to others when you feel that way. You say, "Kalousek, you're picking up every stupid detail." Do you really have 82 million operating costs a year, which means almost a billion in ten years, do you find that low? Do you really think it's a minor detail that they can't add up at the Treasury? These are things we should cross over because you mean well? For God's sakes, try to imagine that you're the CEO of Babišův's company, and you're going to present something like that to him, and you're going to say, "Babish, you're catching on to every crap, you've found me 82 million different and I can't add up. That can't be bothering you. I'm your manager, and I mean well." Do you think you'd survive this argument? I am deeply convinced that I am not. And now he's in the same position. He argues against us, who are to guard taxpayers' money, using a document where clearly it was unable to add up, where there is clearly a mistake, where one page is contrary to the other. And you say it's details, go ahead. If you think he's doing it wrong, let him do it, and he'll drown in it. But that's communist logic! That's the logic the worse, the better. And the worse, the better - we don't work like this. We defend the interests of taxpayers of the Czech Republic, and what you are promoting here is a tunnel, and a tunnel based on calculations, where the Ministry of Finance will make a historical shame that it can't count!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u163	Thank you. You may make a point of fact, Mr Jandák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u164	Now off protocol. I didn't want to fight. I just want to say one thing. If anyone suspects Babiš can't count, that's bullshit, right? It shouldn't be Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u165	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u166	I know. But now which Babiš did you speak of, Mr Member, through Mr President? That's the endless conflict of interest. Babiš, the owner of Agrofert, certainly knows how to count. That is why sales have been growing since his entry into office, but contributions to the state budget have fallen. That's quite a discrepancy. Sales are growing, but taxes are paying less and less. [[13.10 hours]] And at the same rate, he's getting subsidies from the state budget. Just like the owner of Agrofert counts brilliantly. But it's even harder to count as Secretary of Finance, because otherwise the balance of Agrofert couldn't look like this. You cannot count well in his role as owner of Agrofert as Minister of Finance. Somewhere, you have to make some major mistakes. And he made the right decision about where to make them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u167	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've heard this dirty lie 20 times. And it will still be repeated by Mr Kalousek. Well, here's that horrible Agrofert. Here you go. [[It shows a paper with graphs and numbers.]] You can take a look. So Agrofert took 19,663 393,000 into public budgets from 2006 to 2014. Of which corporate taxes 4 981 868 thousand and social and health insurance 14 681 525 thousand. And for the same period from 2006 to 2014, he received 1 899 141 000 from the Czech budget! That's ten percent! Stop lying already!! [[Very loud.]] Ten percent is it! Then don't lie. And find an auditor to check it out! These are the numbers. You're still lying. 5 billion. biofuels. Lie! There's nothing. These are the numbers. And you and Odska know nothing but Agrofert and Babiš. Is that your program? Still Babish? Drop it, Jandák said. You approve and I'll be sunk. So don't lie. One tenth is that. One tenth. And you can argue with European subsidies and I will show you how much my companies are taking into the European budget - German, Hungarian, Slovak. That's another billion. Then stop lying already.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u169	Now, with a factual remark, President Kalousek and Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u170	Thank you. We're not lying, Minister of Finance and Owner of Agrofert, just like you just didn't lie. You just added up the absolute numbers for the years 2006 to 2014. And I agree that that's what they are. It can be traced from open sources. And it is also easy to derive from them why you decided to enter politics in 2011 because the balance sheet looked very unhappy. And now I'm going to tell the same truth as you, except I'm going to say it in relative terms, you just said it in absolute terms. Since 2011, when you joined politics, your revenues have been growing, which I wish you, but Agrofert's tax contribution to the state budget is falling, which I do not wish you because it is taxpayers' money. Just as your public budget subsidies are rising year after year, and this has resulted until 2015, when the subsidies you collect from public budgets exceeded the level of contributions you make to the state budget. All of this is traceable from open sources, e.g. from Agrofert's annual report, and it's not a lie. You can't override that with absolute numbers in ten years. Just when you said yes, it would be better, so you didn't lie. From the moment you became Minister of Finance, Agrofert is actually considerably better. [[with emphasis]] Here I am addressing Mrs Lorencová, who fought against all entrepreneurs who are looting public budgets. So you have the biggest one right next door, my colleague. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u171	Thank you. I'm filing three applications for actual. First Mrs Langšádlová, then Vice-President Filip and then Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u172	Mr President, Mr Finance Minister, I think there is a big misunderstanding here. You're not sitting in Agrofert's meeting. You sit in the Chamber of Deputies as a member of the government. The Czech Republic is a parliamentary democracy. Within the framework of parliamentary democracy, the government answers to the Chamber of Deputies. You are a member of the government, and you have a duty to answer the questions you are asked properly and correctly. Minister, you repeatedly demonstrate that you do not even know what is in the materials you present in this Chamber of Deputies. The moment it turns out that the materials you're presenting are full of factual errors, you're upset. Minister, this approach is totally unacceptable and I am asking for a substantive debate. I am asking you for true information that allows us to make decisions according to our best conscience and our commitments and promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u173	Thank you, too, Madame. Therefore, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will now speak with a factual remark and the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u174	Thank you. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, if I were not an atheist, I would say - bůh, how far we have fallen. Please, can we get back to the subject of debate? Most of the time, we haven't dealt with the subject of our third reading here since this morning. I remember very well when the appearance of the third reading collapsed. During the relentless performance of the then president of KDU-ČSL Cyril Svoboda, who wanted to break one law and started a debate here in the third reading, which was not about the subject of third readings. Yes, it was a slump in parliamentary democracy, but also in political culture. Then we had a few more slumps in the political culture of this assembly. And today we're witnessing that no one cares if they're talking to the point or they're not talking to the point. I believe this is not a democratic debate. This is an example of how we can really turn parliament into a blabbermouth instead of a body of legislative power and government control. That's not really what a parliamentary debate looks like. [[Pretty bad.]] Please at least stop these personal attacks and argue - both of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u175	Thank you. Now, then, the Minister of Finance and Mr Laudát will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I don't come out of amazement. I don't know what Mrs Langšádlová is talking about. I'm talking about Agrofert? You're talking about Agrofert. You keep attacking me, insulting me, lying all the time. You're talking to Agrofert. I don't want to talk about Agrofert at all. You're lying that Agrofert has more subsidies than contributions. Now your chairman said it again. He's a notorious liar! Demagogue! And the contribution of Agrofert in the first year of 2014, as I was in office, was 3 057 million, i.e. He was 322 miles taller. It's more than 2013! One lie after another. So talk to EET. Talk about why you don't want us to collect more taxes. Why do you protect cheaters and people who don't pay taxes? Talk about it! Don't talk about me! Give me a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u177	Thank you. I'm gonna load up another note that arrived. As of 13.30, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip apologizes for business reasons. Now, then, President Laudát, with a point of fact, and after that, Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u178	Thank you. I'll just respond to my colleague Filip. I believe that most of the contributions until some time were related to this matter. And now the discussion has gone wrong just because, and I don't think it's petty, if anyone's gonna make a law based on a slendrian study that doesn't even add up - that means how is anyone supposed to believe the next one? [[13.20 hours]] And I'd like to ask Mr. Steering Meeting if I've been shouted here that I may have offended Mrs. Lorencová at my time so that when someone is yelling and shouting that someone is a liar and a cheater, he may be led to order. Or where the House leadership has the bar that's... Perhaps you should publish the Czech-Slovak dictionary of insults, curses, so that everyone can find out what is still a decent expression and what is not. That's the culture -- you said after the squares that you'd bring a new culture, a new style of work, that you're better, that you're the new politicians, or non-politicals, new people, new people, I've heard that someone was brainwashing you, so I don't know what it is, really, because it's never been escalated like this. I don't think we're doing any crazy obstructions here. Nobody here reads Lebanese fairy tales. No one here has read history since the Slovan' arrival to the Hussites, which took place here in the last parliamentary term. I really want it to go back. For God's sake, let the Minister of Finance begin to control himself. I mean, he took out the charts here, he was talking about his holding company. Then he screams that someone is a liar, a cheater, that he didn't talk about anything like that, that he would pull the same numbers soon and repeat it again. And I'd like to see if we're to stay on the right track, so that, Mr. Management Meeting, you can lead to order. If someone's yelling at someone and screaming because it was screaming, it wasn't even an elevated voice. I understand that the coalition is failing, and that it cannot be done, that you are losing patience, and you have to overwhelm everything quickly before the voters know you're feeding them nonsense. [[Time warning]] Well, just follow those words a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u179	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry. [[Member of the Laudat: Thank you.]] Yes, you're right. I think that parliamentary democracy should not include insults either from one side or from the other side. I think that is a great responsibility for the Members who perform. Now, then... [[Miroslav Kalousek is standing at the speaker's desk. There's a gesture going on from the right.]] ano, now a colleague of mine, Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed in the third reading of this law, which it has and will have if it is adopted, and I still believe that we will be able to prevent it, very negative impacts on entrepreneurs, on the number of jobs, etc. I have only mentioned this here, and I would like to refer to the words of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Filip, who is not here at the moment. I believe that the reservation to the fact that it is proved that they are not properly prepared and well prepared documents which justify the presentation of this material, the warning to such a question is entirely in line with political culture and Parliament's work. I believe that we have the right to complete information, we have the right to correct, correct information, and we have the right to defy it if we do not get it. And here, really, there's no answer to the questions, there's no explanation of how it's possible that there's errors in the materials. A lot of questions, questions weren't answered here about the law. And I, in fact, completely in line with political culture, quite in accordance with the rules of parliamentary democracy towards this procedure, make a great reservation because this is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u181	Thank you, too. Now, then, President Kalousek, with a point of fact, Mrs Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u182	Thank you for the floor. I understand, Minister of Finance, why you wouldn't want us to talk about Agrofert. That's your personal interest. That's why you bought more than half of the media market to avoid talking about Agrofert. But the opposition has to talk about it, because otherwise it would not have fulfilled what Vice-President Filip here was talking about - the constitutional role not only of the legislative but also of the supervisory body over the rule of the Czech Republic. If there is a huge corporation that is provenly draining public budgets and that belongs to the finance minister who is responsible from the Constitution for those public budgets, then it is a damn big issue for the Chamber of Deputies as a supervisory authority, and you cannot not talk about it especially in a situation where, as we find out, you can't even add up. Based on the material where there are absolutely fundamental errors, you want this House to raise its hand for the law, which will allow you, without a tender, to distribute completely transparently to your friends orders for hundreds of millions a year, according to your annual sum of 396, but you say 308, because you didn't know how to add it up. Actually, the sum is 396. As you rightly say, it's just a guess. So it's probably gonna be a lot more when your friends come forward without a tender. And all of this will lead to a few big earnings for a few oligarchs. One extra crown will not be chosen, as Balkan experience shows, and thousands of businessmen will be destroyed, as Balkan experience shows. All in favor of Agrofert and his business partners. Well, don't be surprised we have to talk about it now that you've clogged the newspaper's mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u183	Thank you. I'll read the note. 22 days. 1. from 12.45 and from 14 apologizes because of illness Mr. Jiří Koubek. Now, therefore, with Mrs Kovářová's factual remark and Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u184	Thank you for the floor. I'd put it back to that substantive debate and ask for an answer to my questions. How much do you plan on bringing EET into the state budget? 10 to 15, or 18? What is the estimated amount taken into account? Two: Annual traffic will be 170, 308, or 396 million? And then I would add that to the third question: how much will the IT system cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u185	Thank you, Madame. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u186	Mr President, Mr Kalousek here repeatedly raises one alleged numerical error in the accompanying material, which has 185 pages. The moment I got some kind of test for some kind of test that would have this length, and there was one numerical error, I would probably try to figure out if there was anything else, and in an appropriate way, he factored it out. Even if this error here was really such that it is not explained in any other way, it can be said here: they found one error in the sum, they didn't find anything concrete, in everything else it is necessary to come back here and repeat it by one sum, where we didn't even have enough to note the numbers so that we could check it with a calculator, not to mention that there is no law that prescribes how it adds and subtracts. And to the reservations about Croatia, I would just say that in Croatia, in the territory of today's Croatia, such Nikola Tesla was also born. Without him, we probably wouldn't be here tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u187	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, President Kalousek, after him, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u188	Thank you. I think my previous speaker had a wonderful idea. We don't have a law yet, co-workers and colleagues, to tell us how to add up or not add up. Perhaps you should consider it and suggest the law: there is always the sum that Minister Babiš will state as correct. [[A rare round of applause.]] Otherwise, I was talking about a screaming mistake, and my colleague Zlatuška says: because of one mistake on 195 pages... Well, there's a lot of them out there. This is an error in operating expenses, which I set as an example. In terms of investment, we can praise the Minister of Finance, not by 82 million, but only by eight. That's nice. Even if it's a year and it's... But it's already a partial improvement. [[13.30 hours]] On the other pages, you will find that the information contradicts each other. And you're an informatic, unlike me, Mr. Congressman, so please take a look at the level of the information material from the point of view of computer science. At least all the independent experts I spoke to said the word study couldn't be used for it. That it's just a paquilas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u189	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u190	Thank you for the floor. I, to tell you the truth, was rather surprised by Mr. Zlatuška's speech. I was here today trying to explain to the House what the fundamental differences are between the study mentioned and the explanatory note, where the explanatory report, i.e. as the only basis that serves the Chamber of Deputies to decide whether or not to adopt that law, the explanatory memorandum quite fundamentally, quite fundamentally ignores the risks and threats mentioned in that study. The reason report is a mere PR marketing document created by the Ministry of Finance. And I am absolutely terrified that people like Mr. Mr. Zlatuška are taking this down. This is an absolutely crucial thing. This House has not received the correct documentation, it has not received the complete documentation, it has received documents that are unbalanced. She has received material that absolutely emphasizes only the positives of the matter and does not draw attention to the risks. I want to repeat once again that the decision-making of Members is based only on the basis, in particular, of the explanatory memorandum that we have put in the system. And if the risks are not mentioned, if they are withheld, I hope that inadvertently, I do not want to believe that Minister Andrej Babiš is deliberately hiding the risks, but if they are concealed from the Members of the House of Deputies, I really ask how this is possible and why does the Chamber of Deputies, as an institution of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as a place which - the Government, of course, is to answer to the House as such, so why does the House not respond? That we'd go through with nothing but silence. Why? [[Attention, President, on time.]] Only because it's Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u191	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u192	Thanks for the word. I will respond to the word pasquil. We've inherited from the last government the pasquil that we're working hard to put together. And all I can talk about is the area of defense and security, where, after two years, things that have been going on here have been fixed for the past ten years. So if you're gonna talk about pasquila, I'd be very careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u193	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, President Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u194	Thank you. Where you can lead this republic will only show the future. So far, I feel like it's been two years since this government ruled. And besides handing out money, except for interference without seeing another system, you've done nothing here. You're living from the past that someone has prepared for you. [[The disagreeable responses of some Members.]] For which we paid the political price. The future will show. All we have to do is cool down the economy, and we'll talk about how it's gonna be. Of course, every time brings new challenges. Not too long ago, it has not called for us to have to expand the security forces or the army in a fundamental way. The situation is quite different today. If you're so genius, you could have said it before. I didn't hear anything like that from you, and of course we support the sensible changes. However, I don't know what you're fixing here. It's obvious how you fix it. That we're getting into a situation where you're presenting materials that a teacher would take to a third general school and cross out and send the processor concerned home with a five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u195	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kučera, Mr Koskuba will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u196	Shortly to my prime minister, the MP... I lost my name. [[Cottage.]] Environmental Impact Assessment Act - paskvil. Land purchase law - paskvil. Service law - pasquil. Waste Act - four times amended pasquil! All from the workshop of your ministers! All from the workshop of your ministers! All these laws will have to be amended again. So if we're talking here, if anybody's making paquilas, in those two years, Mr. Chalupa, you've created a record number of these paquilas over the past two years. Signed by you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u197	Well, at this point in time, I have a need to lead you to discipline in discussing electronic sales records. That's what we're discussing today. Now Mr Koskuba with a factual remark and another enrollment is Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 25 minutes, perhaps another grueling day will come to an end when there is no denying that this House does not pay enough attention to the law on electronic records of sales. I can't agree that anyone couldn't comment on that. And I would follow up with Vice-President Filip, who quite reasonably and pragmatically led us to a certain parliamentary culture. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually at the third reading. And as I hate to hear it, and I apologize to the First Vice-President of the Government for stealing everything. It bothers me because I don't steal. But I know what he means. Well, third reading about EET right now, I'm sorry, I don't want to hear about Agrofert or anything. I'd just like to hear your opinions on the EET. And I heard that - the opposition logically rejects this law. Now she has found a dramatic mistake in sum, for which I am not laughing at anyone, that is right and certainly also Minister Babiš will appreciate that the opposition is so very carefully reading his materials. But parliamentary democracy allows you one thing in that case. If you consider it so crucial, suggest a return to second reading. We'll vote on it. Oh, please, there's just a government majority who apparently pushed the law into third reading. And he's really threatening to pass the law. But that is a normal parliamentary democracy. So let's have a specific conversation and let's just vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u199	Thank you. Three more factual points. Mr Tejc, Mrs Langšádlová, has the first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only have one comment, on the Margo of what the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club has said here. He wants to give us the impression that you, as a new government coalition, have given us the country in order, that perhaps you have given it to us even in a better condition than it is now. So what I'd like to say is that all you've given us is the debt that's reached record level. And that record was not achieved by anyone other than your best finance minister, Miroslav Kalousek. Don't look at the impressions, look at the numbers. Look at how much debt there was at the time Minister Kalousek became Minister of Finance, and look at the debt of the state when he left. I don't think there's any point in us arguing about this. About you handing over to us a country in which there was a bad mood in which society was divided. We're trying to do the opposite. And I want to tell you that it's not important what I think about it. Even with all due respect to you, it's not important what you think about it, but what the voters think about it. And the voters made a clear decision! They made a clear decision about who they wanted in the government. Whether you or the new coalition. And when I look at the preferences that government parties now have in their sum, the preferences that former government parties have, I don't think they miss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u201	Thank you. Now, Mrs Langšádlová's point of fact and after that, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u202	Hello. I only wanted to talk about EET first, but I would like to make one more comment. Mr Tejci, through Mr President, you are not telling the truth. Look at the development of the structural deficit. The numbers are clear. The deficit situation has improved significantly under the Minister of Finance Kalousek. But what I wanted to say to you, dear colleagues, especially coalition colleagues. Do you really, as Members, know how to vote on a law where two fundamental questions have not been answered - what will this bring, and how much will it cost? Mrs Kovářová asked this question very clearly and, as in the quiz, gave the Minister a choice. I do not think that we can vote and continue to act without the Minister answering these two absolutely trivial questions in two sentences. It will bring this amount into the budget and it will cost so much. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u203	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, the Minister of Finance, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u204	Thank you for the floor. In what state of mind who took over the country and how much they're profiting from it today, that would really be beyond that point. It's just someone's mowing, someone's reaping, and they're wasting it. I'm not complaining about it. That's just life. But I wanted my previous speaker, Mr Koskuba, and in a way, Mr Jeroný Tejc, who said: that is democracy, we have a majority, so let it go. But democracy is not balsinity, democracy is the rule of law. There's just some rules that apply here, and we respect them. You have limited the discussion period for us today, both in time and in the number of acts, and we are not protesting this, because that is simply what the Rules of Procedure Act allows you to do and you have behaved according to the law. We're also consistent with the law, so why are you shouting that we're suppressing your rights? We follow the rules. I mean, it's democracy, not who has a majority or a minority, but whether we behave or not by the rules. And I strongly point out that we're acting by the rules, we're not walking out of the rules by a millimeter. It is up to you whether or not you want to respect these rules all the time we negotiate this law. We're not gonna break them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u205	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u206	Then I would answer the question of Mrs Langšádlová and Mrs Kovářová for the tenth time, because I do not understand... I know I sound bad, but I read it this morning, so I'll read it to you again. It'll bring 18 billion. Of the 18 billion, there are 4 billion for municipalities and cities. Mrs. Kovářová, rud, remember? You're fighting. There you go. Raise your hand behind the EET. Four billion for municipalities and cities, 1.5 billion for regions and 12.5 billion for state budget for pensions, investments, salaries of teachers, firefighters, soldiers, police. So 4 + 1.5 + 12.5 is 18. I read it this morning, so I don't know why I read it here if you don't listen to me. And then I'll repeat the costs again. The study, it's a year old. And if you've ever had a business plan, you probably know that you'll find out the real costs when you compete. And you're doing everything you can to... Not only can we not compete, but the law isn't, how should I know. But I read the actual numbers again this morning. I repeated the cost for the state here last time, as I read the hour, today I read a little time. So the cost is to build an ET system, they don't exceed 370 million, and traffic won't cost more than 170 million a year. And we're trying to get these numbers down. Here we go. That's my speech this morning. 18 against 370 initial costs and then 170. Well, that's a dream dream plan. Show me one private equity or one of Wall Street's that has a return on it. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Returns 370 + 170 and 18 billion will be received. Unbelievable! That's a return. I'll count it for you next time. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It's been months. But you don't understand what a plan or investment is, so it's a debate between deaf and mute. [[The President again draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u207	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u208	Since you just spoke, Minister, you won't be deaf to a mute in the debate. You have also identified yourself as one of these two alternatives. But I'll let you ask me anyway. On Thursday, we discussed, even briefly, mandatory VAT reports. That's where you surrounded us with the same figure to bring 18 billion. Now I hear the same figure about EET - 18 billion. Please nicely, are we to understand in a cumulative manner that 18 billion will bring mandatory reports and an additional 18 billion electronic sales log? Or do you see it as a common result of these two beneficial instruments? If you could explain that to us, I'd really like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u209	I thank you, too, and with a factual remark, the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš is reporting. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I regret that Mr Kalousek's diagnosis has changed through Mr President and that he has sclerosis. I said 10 billion, not 18. 10 control reports, so 10 and 18 is 28. I did the math, and I guess that's a good thing. 10 and 18 is 28. So I guess it's sclerosis, Congressman. Try reading it. 10 and 18 is 28 billion for all citizens of this country. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u211	Thank you, with the factual remark of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u212	I'd just like to remind you that at the beginning you said, Minister, that the EET would bring 10 billion. I don't mean at the beginning of today's meeting, but when you started talking about it, you said 10. Now we're 18. I'd like that for the citizens, as you say, but I don't know how you found out about it, the $8 billion shift. Whether that's your guess or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u213	The Minister will respond. Since no one is logged in with a factual remark, you can speak with priority rights to have more time, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u214	No, I'll be short. I am sorry that Mrs Kovářová is mixing apples and pears, so I am talking about 18 billion for the whole project in time and at the beginning I was talking about 12,5 for restaurants, retail and hotels. That's a qualified estimate by the Treasury. 12.5. And we're picking how much? One eight, which is why we are reducing VAT in order to straighten out the environment so that those honest people who pay really have competitive conditions. So you can't knit it together, apples, pears, you have to compare it the same way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u215	Thank you. So now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Vácha. [[Shouting in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask you, co-workers and co-workers, not to shout at each other. Word grants a management meeting. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been waiting for that word for about half an hour, and since I didn't want to delay, I didn't sign up for actual notes, but I wrote down a few factual notes here, but I'm only going to pick one of them. But Professor Zlatuška isn't here. I'd like to clarify that Tesla didn't invent the bulb, but Mr. Thomas Alva Edison. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] [[13.50 hours]] As for limiting speaking time, I came up with some of the materials I wanted you to meet. Anyway, ten minutes won't really be enough for me if you look, so it's very thick material. At first, I had the intention of not performing at all, however... [[Weak applause from some Members.]] Thank you for the applause. I know you want to go home. That you're happy that we've brought in the extension. It's obvious to you, so thank you for cheering us on. At first I thought I would not perform, but when you listen to the debate and a colleague of Koníček first appeared in it, the first post should be put in the bench and you should listen very carefully all the time. I come from an environment where the most important thing in your profession is the arguments of others. We've only heard arguments here from the Minister in an hour before, now a three-quarter-hour speech. None of the rest of you, apart from a few very flaming factual remarks and such perhaps humorous factual remarks with that flyer, or from Mrs Lorencová, that you don't care how many small entrepreneurs go bankrupt or not, so you've heard or you'll hear maybe thirty, forty, fifty contributions, where colleagues from the opposition come to you and try to convince you with their arguments... [[Notes from the O.R.]] Excuse me? Not insulting, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u217	I repeatedly lead you to discipline and ask you not to interrupt and call upon the speaker during the course of the speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u218	If anyone was insulting anyone, it was your chairman. A colleague of the Koníček with a faggot. That's what I think was on the brink of parliamentary culture. If you had heard, the first performance by Mr. Koníček would have put you on the bench and listened to thirty, forty speeches, when we were trying to tell you the clear arguments of the opposition... Mr President, could you keep the Minister down, he's mumbling behind my back that there were no arguments. Minister, I can speak to you directly. Read the tape, the tape. There were clear arguments as to why the opposition thought that the sales record bill would bring no positives, but it would be all negatives. Everyone who stepped out of the opposition came up with some arguments. Only that no taxes will be collected. You're saying it's going to be 18 billion, the opposition says it's not going to be any taxes. You come up with a study of some firm that can't even add up. We come up with our arguments. Then for God's sake, listen to them. Take them into account. Mr President, could you keep the Minister of Finance down so I can get into my...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u219	I'd like to keep it down, but I'm here from my position... If he's mumbling like you say, I can't hear it. [[Joy and laughter in the hall.]] I'd like to meet you, but I really... if he has notes, I can't hear it from this position. But anyway, Mr. Secretary... Ambassador, I'm going to ask the Minister not to interrupt your speech by talking. No, Mr. Ambassador, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u220	[[Minister Babiš demonstrated his mouth over his notebook.]] He can mumble, put cardboard on his mouth, nice pink paper, so we'll see what happens. So no taxes will be collected. You've heard arguments from the opposition that no taxes will be collected. You've come...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u221	If the Chamber of Deputies is not brought to justice, I will interrupt the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u222	The Minister will unzip the paper and mumble again in the back, and that will interrupt me. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know if I'm gonna have to start over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u223	Minister, I ask you not to lower the House of Deputies' proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u224	You have clear arguments from the opposition that no taxes will be levied. You have arguments from your advisors that you will choose 18 billion. Okay, my colleague Jandák says to let you flush somewhere. I think my colleague Bendl's argument was clear. It's not about flushing you. Our point is that businessmen are not flushed down by what you brought us here. We're talking about businessmen, not your political career. You cut the branch under you and slit it today and every day with the drafts of the laws appointed by a colleague named Kučera. Then there's the possibility of abuse. The opposition reminds you all the time that data can be misused. You come up with the fact that there won't be any important data. The opposition here shows you on clear arguments that there will be important data, that data can be used in the system. And they can be used against you. Be careful with that. There are politicians who are... Next - that's what cyber security is all about. Colleague Holeček here was talking about network security. A colleague of mine, Mr. Pilný, has thrown it away. However, the danger is here. Yes, we have critical infrastructure, but I think this is one of the most critical infrastructures where entrepreneurs have to send data to some central registry. And someone can hack in. We know there's a way around the system. The opposition has told you here that the system is that there are clear arguments from your Croatia that you prefer so much. I go on vacation, too. You go to France to Nice, there you have... [[The MP is discussing with Minister Babiš...]] No? Yeah? Were you? We're just going, maybe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u225	Mr. Ambassador, as you urged the Minister to discipline, I urge you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u226	I'm going on. The minister here is mumbling at me from behind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u227	Mr. Ambassador, this isn't about discussing with the Minister. This is about you giving a lecture on your contribution. Stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u228	Then shut him up! There's a possibility of bypassing the software system. That's known from Croatia. Hackers are smarter than I.T.s from your department or some other. We heard a contribution from a fellow Farský. He warned that it would affect, say, only 5% of the payers. He told you that you focused on the poorest or most defenseless part of our business economy. To the little businessmen. [[A note from the diaper.]] Hypermarkets, but even small businessmen like hairdressers... Mr President, I would like you to interrupt the meeting because I cannot proceed. The minister is disturbing me here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u229	I take it you've spent your ten minutes. [[Screams from the O.R.: Not exhausted!]] I didn't, but you got out for the first time. I really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u230	No, I haven't spent ten minutes. I had to end my contribution because the minister here has been constantly disturbing me. I cannot continue my contribution because I am disturbed by the Minister. Mr President, I leave to you how you will resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-22-ps2013-037-04-001-999.u231	Yes, and I will deal with it decisively. I shall put to the vote that this meeting will be adjourned by 29. 1:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you out and ask you to come forward again. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[He's waiting for a while.]] The number of Members has settled. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this procedural proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21, with 116 Members registered, for proposal 89, against 22. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. I'm interrupting this meeting. Thank you.
