ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u1	10. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 828/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček will present this bill. Mr. Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put forward the proposed government bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. The co-workers originally prepared a five-page opening word for me here, but since I'm here for the fifth time, I think that without damage to the material, I can afford to shorten the introduction because I think that every other reading is perfecting the law, and I think that given how many times we've dealt with this law, it's already one of the most perfect laws here. But I'll get back to the subject. As I said in the first reading of the bill, this proposal is a reaction to the coalition board's decision of 27 May 2016 to re-submit a proposal for the so-called anti-smoking law, due to the rejection of the original government bill. Presented...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace in the House. If you need to discuss something, it's outside the boardroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u4	The proposed bill is thus based on the text of House Press No. 508 as amended by the amendments approved at third reading, except for the amendment which introduced constructionally separate smoking areas in the internal area of catering establishments, the so-called smoking shops. In the first reading of the bill and also during its discussions in the Committee on Health, some critical comments were made in the discussion of both support for the proposal and some critical comments. With regard to the topics discussed, in particular the ban on smoking in food service establishments and the prohibition on the sale of alcohol in public accessible events, I again stress that the amendments aimed at mitigating these prohibitions do not have my support and I cannot agree with them. Finally, I would like to say once again that the bill tabled corresponds to the majority opinion of the Members, which was made during the discussion of the amendments in the third reading of the House press no. 508. At the same time, I would like to ask that the bill be discussed as soon as possible, given that it partially implements the European Union regulation, namely the Tobacco Products Directive, where the transposition period has already expired on 20 May 2016. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this legislation will contribute to improving the situation of protection against addictive substances and will have a positive impact on the health of the population. That is why I believe that you will support the bill in today's hearing. Thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as press 828/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jaroslav Krákora, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u6	Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members. I think that the law we are discussing today, House Press 828, has already been discussed here for several months. I do not want to unnecessarily prolong this important document for the population of the Czech Republic. I think the Minister has brilliantly and simply summed up what the law is. It could be discussed; there are amendments. I think, Mr President, I could read the committee resolution...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u7	Of course. If you consider it necessary, you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u8	After the opening word, it was Deputy Minister Arnoštová at the time, and the report by Mr MUDr. Jaroslav Krákora recommends the Health Committee The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances, House press 828, including the amendments adopted. The Committee's rapporteur shall be empowered by Mr MUDr. Jaroslav Krákora, to present the opinion of the committee to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to conclude that we all know that smoking is proven to be harmful to health. As I said, it's normal not to smoke! So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have two applications for it so far. The first is Mr Klán and then Mr Kostřica. Mr Jan Klán has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we are in a position to discuss the anti-smoking law. At least that's what the media call it, it's just an anti-smoking law. However, that's not true. There are many other things that regulate our lives in some way, but not only ours, but also the whole republic. The fact that it only shrinks into the position of banning smoking in food services is a matter for the media and, of course, the fact that we are the only state in Europe that does not regulate the prohibition of smoking in these premises in some way, I will now introduce you to my observations both from reality and, of course, examples from neighbouring countries, where there is a partial regulation of smoking bans in the food service areas, and how those countries have been doing it. I will first draw on experience from Slovakia, Austria, Germany or Poland, as these are countries that have similar historical and cultural developments. All these states are doing partial regulation of smoking bans. I think, for this very reason, that we have historical and cultural developments together, that even for us, partial regulation would be more advantageous than full regulation of smoking bans. You'll see what leads me to this argument. [[14.40 hours]] The crucial argument for smoking ban is that it would not follow in the finals anyway. On the contrary, excessive regulation leads to these regulations being violated. And I can't imagine how in small villages, small pubs this will be observed, virtually. Ask yourself who will actually control the ban in those small villages. So the ban would only be formal. I do not deny that it has some kind of preventive effect, which means that it will push the operators or owners to turn their facilities into purely non-smoking pubs, non-smoking locals or nalops. I'm not denying this. But I'm saying, the crucial thing is that it would only be formal, in some way, a ban. But now let us move on to the whole material as a whole and then we will also get to my amendments. Personally, I am not too much for detailed regulation, rather I am behind setting the framework rules that the company will follow and will be clearly enforceable. Detailed regulation, as I have already said, in my opinion, misses the effect. It is not possible to predict all the details and events that may actually occur in real life. I welcome in the law that some things, some products that are sold, such as tobacco or in some way hard alcohol, will need to be sold in specialised stores. Yes, that is precisely the kind of regulation that we can clearly regulate. That means there will be a trade in which it will be sold, only persons over the age of 18 will have access, so it is a type of proper regulation. Let's be aware of that. That's how it can be regulated. However, there is still a lot of nonsense, paradoxes and wrong, bad regulation in the law. Let me give you an example. Of course, this example will not be just one, there will be more. Title II, Section 3 (b) 3. I personally propose to delete this paragraph because it is technically difficult to implement. In practice, the ban is to sell anything through a vending machine, and that's nonsense. In fact, there is a ban on the sale of alcohol or tobacco products in automatons, but in practice it would mean that nothing could be sold at all. So this is a difficult technically feasible step, so I will propose this paragraph completely in a detailed debate. Article 5 (1) (a) 1 is technically and therefore legally unclear. What does it mean that the goods are to be separated and separated? What is to be separated from in this case? I don't understand a bit. Maybe even you don't understand what I'm supposed to separate the goods from. If I am to separate tobacco products, for example, from cookies or alcohol from laundry products, so be it, but that is not clearly given in the law. So once again, you see the ambiguity of what I'm supposed to separate these things from. So this paragraph is quite confusing again. Article 6 (1) (a) 1. This provision is only possible if there are electronic IDs. These, ladies and gentlemen, are online sales. So strictly speaking, it can practically be an invasion of personal freedom. Someone will know about me as a citizen somewhere, where, when, how much I buy. And that is the space of my personal freedom, which is none of anyone's business, provided that the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms is in effect. The same is true in Section 15. Again, who cares? If I am a citizen who is over 18 years old and I buy, for example, a few bottles of hard alcohol over the Internet, then who cares. It's like a space for my personal freedom. No one can limit me in that case. Article 8 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (a) is a highly complex provision. As far as restaurants are concerned, I'd leave the adjustment to date. That's what I was talking about at the beginning, when we currently have an adjustment to the ban on smoking in restaurants or catering establishments, it doesn't matter what we call it at the moment, so we have an absolute benevolence. We tell owners and operators to do what they want. Let them choose whether they want to have a smoking or non-smoking facility, it is currently happening that you have these two variants, and then you have the possibility of building separate spaces, as the law says, which has been discussed here around 2007. During the last parliamentary term, we also came across this question, but the law was not discussed here in the end. So the same adjustment is still in force at the moment. It should be noted that until 2005, there was an adjustment from 1989, when so-called Time regulation, which means that when lunches were served, it was written directly that when lunches were served, smoking is prohibited. This was respected until 2005 and even at present there are establishments that are thus regulating themselves. And for this example, I have an argument that maybe operators or owners themselves know who they are going to the appropriate establishment, whether they are smokers or non-smokers. According to this, they decided whether they wanted to have smoking or non-smoking facilities. If I, as a non-smoker, go to an establishment where I smoke, and I know I'm familiar when I enter the facility, then it's got to be enough for me, and if I don't want to go there, I'm gonna find an establishment where there's a total ban on smoking. But since I have a lot of friends who are indulging in smoking parties, or whatever we might call it, I'm going with them to the smoking pub, especially in the villages. The fact that, of course, I'm going to smell, or that I'm going there to spoil my health, in some way I'm reflecting myself, and it's my best conscience and my best conscience, and I have to count on it, of course. The second question relates to the staff serving there, how this would be adjusted if it were smoking facilities. But let's move on. I would not even forbid the sale of alcohol through a vending machine - § 11 para. 4. We are now coming to § 11 para. 7. That's a very interesting paragraph. How are you going to figure out how much this person has permiled? There's a provision that when someone comes into the restaurant, obviously in a drunken state, the owner or the waiter doesn't have to pour it. But someone just needs one beer and it's already broken, someone just needs ten beers to be in the same case as when someone has one beer. So how do you want to judge? You can't give him a breath because you don't have the authority to do it, only the Police of the Czech Republic can do it, and in that case I would call the Police of the Czech Republic, I would give him a public breath and according to that I would decide whether he is under the influence or not. Another option is that I let the person pass the line that I'm going to draw for him, and if he swings, I'm not going to pour it either. But these are provisions that are problematic. I point to these examples of how detailed regulation leads to considerable chaos, because the operator or owner cannot predict this. These are my observations on the law as a whole, which are not only about smoking bans, but also about the prohibition on the sale of alcohol. But now let's take a look at this popular issue of banning smoking in the food establishments. I'm already here when the law was discussed here six months ago, pointing to different types, different possibilities that exist in Europe. The claim that a large proportion of countries in Europe have a total ban on smoking is completely misleading. Perhaps it would be good if Mr Vyzula listened to me through the President. He said on the radio this morning, where we were together, that there was a total ban in most countries. Yes, he exists in a number of countries, including Ireland. He is needed in Hungary, Romania. In Romania, no one follows it anyway. And, of course, there are many states in Europe that have just gone the way of partial regulation. I used Austria's position there in a certain way. Because it said that Austria would be completely banned from smoking. Yes, he will. In 2015, a total smoking ban was approved in Austria, but they still took a transitional period of three years, so the total smoking ban will be from May 2018. Notice that long period of three years. If we introduce a total ban on smoking in restaurants, it's gonna be six months. Let us ask ourselves why Austria took three years to do this. This leads me to believe that this is a precautionary reason for pushing the operator to create non-smoking establishments over a period of three years. It means there's some kind of prevention. That means in three years they'll have most non-smoking restaurants and pubs there. [[14.50 hours]] The second factor, which plays a role in Austria, is that there is a constitutional complaint lodged with small operators. Small operators - small pubs - protested a total ban. It is precisely because the total ban, once again coming to the beginning, the total ban on smoking, i.e. full regulation, will lead to a lack of compliance with this in small villages, i.e. a so-called formal ban. We'll say, "Yes, we can't smoke." Okay. I, of course, reflect it, fully support it, I'm a non-smoking person, I don't mind. But in small villages, and I can only imagine it from reality, it will be a formal ban. There's already been an interesting phenomenon nowadays. Pub operators, where ten people go every day, and they are smokers who smoke that cigarette at beer or cards, so it leads to pubs becoming closed companies, i.e. clubs. Whatever we call this club, and I've said it here many times, whatever it is, a chess club, a chess club, a man club, don't be mad, Maxips Fík and others, whatever we call it, it's not a smoking ban, ladies and gentlemen. And when I asked the proponents of this law how it would be in the case of clubs, it was answered to me: "You know, Mr. Ambassador, the law cannot affect everything. And we're back to the detailed regulation. The law really doesn't affect everything. So if we ban smoking in these little places, it's going to be a club, everyone gets their entry cards, or membership cards, or an entry chip, and it's going to keep on smoking. So we lead it, as they say, from nothing to nothing, and the result in this case is absolute zero. I therefore lean towards models that operate in neighbouring countries, which means Austria and, in particular, Slovakia. When we look at the case of Austria, Austria has an adjustment made so that establishments up to 60 m2 can choose whether to be fully smoking or non-smoking. There's some liberating in there. An establishment between 60 and 80 m2 if they can't show in any way that they can rebuild the establishment, so they can choose. And those above can set up a building-separated smoker. I have therefore prepared my amendment, which is now reflecting this current situation in Austria, which is still there. And even if it pays, maybe it won't, I can't guess, a total ban on smoking at the food establishments, so there will still be an exception for hotels. Be careful with that. So it's not a total ban anyway. Then we can continue the discussion here, so that we understand each other exactly. So my amendment to the model of Austria will be - letter (k) will therefore be new: In the internal area of the food service establishment except for establishments where the floor area for visitors is less than 60 m2, in which case the owner or operator of such an establishment may decide whether the establishment will be smoking or non-smoking, and is obliged to state this fact in accordance with Section 10 letters. (b) this law. If the floor area intended for visitors is more than 60 m2, the operator or owner is obliged to proceed in accordance with § 10. To understand what § 10 means, it means that it will be able to set up a building-separated smoker. He'll be able to! If he doesn't, he'll have a completely purely non-smoking device. I have the same basically with the second amendment, I'm just putting 80 m2. It's exactly the same. It is simply a typical example of the Austrian model. As far as the next amendment is concerned, this time it reflects the Slovak model in a certain way. In Slovakia I also went to see, as in Austria, how it works there. And I was quite interested in the Slovak model. He's perfectly simple and fairly clear. I was at a restaurant that pretended to be purely non-smoking. When I asked them about the smoking ban, they said, "Yes, there's no smoking in this whole establishment until 9:00 p.m. At 9:00 p.m., the kitchen closes and this part becomes a closed section and there is a bar in front. And you can smoke in that bar. However, the Slovak model also says something else, which means that when you enter the food establishment, the first part must be non-smoking. In the rest, the operator can easily set up a smoker. Then, of course, I was in another restaurant in Slovakia, where they dealt with it in a way that when you came in, the first part was non-smoking and the smoking part was up on the balcony, just like our foyer, they had it on the first floor. Another solution. Smoke, of course, didn't bother non-smokers at all, and smokers, if they wanted, went upstairs. So it also makes sense. And it's an interesting type of regulation. And it's a regulation that's clearly defined and quite controllable. My next amendment will read: In the internal area of the food service establishment, with the exception of those establishments which, for non-smokers, have at least 50 per cent of the area of the establishment intended for visitors and are structurally separated from the part for smokers so that harmful substances from tobacco products do not penetrate the area reserved for non-smokers. The space for non-smokers shall be the first one to enter the food service establishment. It is precisely copied and implemented into our legal order in a certain way, as stated in Slovakia. I'm going to give you another observation here, this time from our parts, and it concerns a total ban on smoking. I often, I don't say very often, but sometimes I go to restaurants here in Prague. And I went to this unnamed restaurant that was smoking, virtually. it had structurally separate spaces. The first part was smoking, which I didn't care about, so I'd prefer this exact option, when the first part would be non-smoking, but so be it. Suddenly, I found out that the facility had become a purely non-smoking restaurant. And when I asked the operator, respectively. the owner, who was there, who led them to do it, so besides fixing it in some way now, it led them to the fact that we here will approve a total ban on smoking. At the same time, I was told that here in Prague it is a common phenomenon and here in Prague there is quite a significant fluctuations of people, it changes a lot, there are a lot of tourists, so tourists go there for food, drink and leave. It's completely different in the village. But to get to the point, they drove the smokers out in front of that entrance, as I was told they'd be standing in front of that entrance. And when I went in, I had to go through a bunch of those smokers, which I did, too, 'cause I don't like it when I was a non-smoking, so before I got in, I was totally scented. That's one thing. Meanwhile, they were throwing everything on the ground, so they polluted the public area - that didn't bother anyone either - because the ashtrays weren't installed for them at all. And by the time I got inside the food service facility, I sat by the door, because there was a table there too, my colleague Vondráček and I had it there, and now it's not sitting here, reserved, and when it opened, the doors were closing, the smokers kept coming out, so the smoke was coming back into the establishment again, and I smelled it again. So we didn't get anywhere again. And there's a total ban, and the smokers are out there, and it's all going back to the establishment. So that's another thing to consider here, how to adjust this. It's beautiful to ban everything, to say it's all wrong. Until now, when we've had a total benevolence here, we're gonna make a strict line and say, "Nothing's gonna happen." Everyone just stops smoking. And that's not true either. Foreign experience says that of course it is a good way to go, that smoking is harmful to health, but abroad they wanted to reduce the number of tobacco consumers. And all of a sudden, when this was introduced, this ban didn't decrease the number of consumers. I'm saying here that I'm not denying the preventive sort of thing that it's going to reduce the number. But at the moment, we need to raise a little company. And in my opinion, the best partial regulation. Partial regulation to get the company used to it. She needs to get used to it first, otherwise it's just a formality. [[15.00 hours]] There's another experience I'm gonna share with you, which I've experienced about smoking bans at stops. Quite often I take the train, there was a lockout, there was a bus and we waited for a delayed passenger train. We were standing on the platform where there was a big red sign No Smoking. And now everyone was standing there, about 50 people, and 20 of them lit a cigarette. Do you think someone was dealing with this? Nobody cared about it, not the conductor, not the smokers. Nobody cared. I don't blame the conductor, because he'd better get whacked out of his hands, and worse, maybe he'd end up in the railroad. It's such an extreme case. But that's really how it is in reality. I've really been there, and that's how it works. It's a formal ban again. We are creating many formal bans here, which say "yes, everything is forbidden," and then it somehow incarnates into the statement "what is forbidden is finally allowed." And then, in the final of the forbidden fruit, it tastes the most. If we really strictly forbid something, it's gonna be broken anyway, especially in this case. I do not deny that smoking is actually harmful to health, it is without discussion, but I look at it from a regulatory point of view, that is, the administrative regulations to make them enforceable. I think the Ministry is going with good intentions, but in my opinion, it's going to go with the effect anyway. If someone here is using an analogy with Ireland, realize that other people live in Ireland, it's a different mentality. This must also be taken into account. Cultural tradition, cultural history needs to be taken into account. If we've allowed something here, allowed it for a long time, whether it's the first Republic, when smoking was in or in some way regulated until 2005, and then it's completely out of order, and now we want to come up with the toughest restriction, then we'll be papal again than the Pope. In this case, it really seems illogical to me that we are going this way of a strict ban on everything. That's just wrong. I'm pointing out here that even well-meaning regulation is ultimately missing its effect. There is also one claim that the road to hell is often paved with good intentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kostřica has the floor, Mr Vondráček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Government, Members, allow me to introduce you to my amendments, which have been distributed to you in the form of Amendment 5008 and 509 in electronic form. In the introduction, let me express my thanks to the Minister of Health and his team for actually deciding to address the anti-smoking law in some way. I will mention especially the anti-smoking part, because by my focus I am a surgeon who works with oncologically ill patients especially in the area of the head and neck, which as such is quite the most exposed to the risk of serious disorders due to smoking. I would like to take the liberty of signing up for several amendments, which I would like to make briefly. There are nine of them in total, but I will try to keep you informed as soon as possible so that I don't waste your valuable time and our valuable time. The first would be this part - the ban on smoking in restaurants, which means a total ban in the interior, which means the marking of the garden. In Article 18, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (k) it is understood that in the premises of the food service establishment, the prohibition does not apply to the outer premises of the food service establishment or part thereof, provided that such premises are reserved for smoking, clearly marked with a graphically visible smoking mark and ensure that the smoking area reserved does not enter the places where smoking is prohibited by this law. [[Operator]] The main purpose of this prohibition is to protect against passive smoking on the one hand, on the other hand to ensure the possibility and right to health and safety for the work of workers working in this establishment. Its importance is also to prevent smoking of children and encourage quitting addicts who have decided to stop this habit. This proposal allows for the creation of a purely smoking outer space, the so-called garden. Compared to the original existing proposal, there is a difference in the fact that the outer space will have to be labeled non-smoking. The point is that all spaces that are external are not automatically considered non-smoking. I see the main positive influence of this variant where it is, for example, gardens that are near sports facilities or children's corners, especially where a number of young athletes, soccer players go to relax after a game in the garden to refresh themselves, and at that moment they are exposed to smokes from the cigarettes of their fans, fathers and so on. I think that this is a very favorable thing, and it would still be such an incentive not to create a bad example of adults who should affect these children. This proposal has already been discussed on 25 May 2016, when the full ban on smoking was released due to the prior approval of Mr Marek Benda's conflict-of-law amendment. The Collision Amendment was not incorporated in the Government's proposal at the time. In my opinion, it is very desirable, especially if the Ministry of Health really wants to reduce smoking, so that the situation from this period is not repeated, so that the Chamber of Deputies is first voted out by the strictest proposal and gradually progressed in the event of its non-approval for relief. That is the only way to prevent it from happening, as I mentioned here, from allowing even the most stringent variants. There is still a bit of a problematic law, which has been approved mostly by one voice, and it is about smoking water pipes. I would recommend that it be defined that these water pipes can only be smoked where a special space is reserved, because otherwise there is a danger that these water pipes can be smoked anywhere, and yet it is known that smoke and harmful effects of water pipes will not be used in anything with a common cigarette, or even worse. As the second part, I would like to mention the ban on smoking in the internal workplace. That's part 15, which would be referred to as part 16. The proposed ban on smoking in internal workplaces fulfils, inter alia, the international legal obligation of the Czech Republic, Article 8 of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which we must fulfil under this commitment by 30. 8th next year. The practice of today's restaurants, but also of other workplaces, where the employer himself specifically forbids smoking by his internal regulation, has shown that this legislation does not ensure this against passive smoking. The absence of a direct and complete ban on smoking causes problems consisting, for example, in disputes about the premises defining the workplace of a particular employee and in the fact that the obligation not to smoke does not apply at all to persons who are not employees, for example to guests of the restaurant. In the future, employers are thus exposed to a high risk of liability for injury caused to workers. It is therefore proposed to prohibit smoking within the internal space of work in the law, where, in conjunction with Section 3 of the Labour Code, the actually enforceable obligation of the employer to ensure compliance with the smoking ban and the obligation of employees and third parties to respect that prohibition will be clearly established. Furthermore, I would like to propose that the authorities of public health protection and the State Labour Inspection Authority and the Regional Labour Inspectorates should also have the authority of the supervisory authority in this case. Control of compliance with this law will be carried out in the same way as the existing control activities of these authorities. [[15.10 hours]] In the third part, I would like to address the protection of dwellings, where people are involuntaryly exposed to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke not only in public places and workplaces, but also in their own dwellings, if someone is smoking them so-called. into the window or, for example, in the common hallway of the apartment building. This violates their fundamental human rights to the integrity of the person and the favourable environment. At the same time, only the theoretical possibility of turning to the court by a private action from Immissions is completely inadequate and inappropriate and in a way often undermines good neighbourly relations in individual residential areas. The dispute can then fundamentally disrupt neighbourly relations and lead to violations of civil coexistence. In addition to the protection of dwellings, this proposal also includes an explicit ban on smoking in common parts of the housing house, such as in the hallway, in the elevator. This prohibition may in some cases contain house rules, where the "no smoking" sign is placed in the elevator, but enforcement is very problematic without explicit legal support, including sanctions. It is therefore necessary to lay down a rule of public law in this case, which makes it clear in advance what behaviour is not acceptable and thus avoids neighbourly disputes. I would also like to mention the ban on smoking in the zoo. You know that in most cases these facilities are visited especially by families with children who are one of the most frequent visitors to these zoos. Almost complete smoking ban introduced some zoos, as far as I know, it is necessary in Olomouc and Brno, on the contrary the Prague zoo allows smoking in all external areas and restricts smoking only in pavilions. The Chamber of Deputies has already adopted a ban on smoking in the zoo, with the exception of the outer areas that the operator of the zoo will provide for smoking. This exception, however, devalues this law because it allows the operator to reserve the entire outer space for smoking. And we're back to where we were, that basically the smoking ban is being enforced only in those pavilions. So it would be worth it here to § 8 para. 1 put another paragraph where it would be first: in the area of the entire zoo. Next, I would like to mention the issue of smoking in a car with children under the age of 18. Surely you know that parents are obliged to care for their children's health. Such care should also be reflected in the fact that they will not expose their children to passive smoking. There are a number of cases where these standards are violated and irresponsible drivers smoke in the car space where children are transported. So I'd like to put in practice a ban on smoking in cars with children under the age of 18. Just for your illustration, the ban on smoking in cars with children applies in England, France, Canada, Australia, Italy and other countries and in Czechoslovakia since, I believe, 1932 until 1951, a total ban on smoking in motor vehicle drivers, when it was established that smoking while driving is prohibited by the driver of the motor vehicle. At all, the driver must avoid anything that distracts the driver from driving at the expense of driving safety. I believe that the similar amendment here was to the House press 508 and received a unanimous positive opinion from the Committee on Health. But in 2016, in the third case, it was not approved by a single voice difference. So I think that this is a matter that should really lead us to deal with it and to make it clear to children that they are transported in cars where there is no way to smoke the driver or parents. I think that this kind of control - or has always been asked how to control it - is very similar to driving using a mobile phone, so I don't think it should be a big problem here, too. Others are such more problematic things, and this is a structurally separate space where it is an attempt to ensure that this space is a spatially closed part of the building, which has a floor, ceiling, etc., because otherwise the constructionally separated space reserved for smoking is contrary to the first principle of the directive of the very framework convention which we are to comply with since 2017 with the tobacco control parties. There is no technical solution that would effectively prevent tobacco smoke from penetrating from smoking areas. Thus, persons in other parts will continue to be exposed to tobacco smoke. In order not to do so, it is necessary that the building-separated space reserved for smoking is almost the entire establishment and the premises will only separate the air through which the smoke spreads freely, so certain additional conditions should be added. The building-separated space for smoking must not occupy more than 50 per cent of the total floor area of the public-access areas and the building-fills which separate the space for smoking must be closed by automatic system in the presence of persons who smoke so as not to penetrate smoke into areas where smoking is prohibited by this law. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I would also like to mention the authority of the municipality, where the municipality may declare a ban on smoking by binding decree, as well as the use of electronic cigarettes or the consumption of alcoholic beverages in a public place or public access to an action, provided that such place or action is open to persons under 18 years of age, restrict or prohibit the sale, supply and consumption of alcoholic beverages and cigarettes and smoking and use in the event of cultural, sporting or other social events accessible to the public at certain days or hours or at a specific place. This proposed text disproportionately and for no reason restricts the existing competence of municipalities and completely unsystemically privileges tobacco products against alcoholic beverages. The Constitutional Court's case-law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u13	Colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I ask for peace and secondly, I ask the speaker if he could set his microphone better, because there are complaints that you are speaking off the microphone and you are not hearing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u14	Thanks for the heads-up, I'm getting close to the end, so I won't be bothering you for too long. The point is to extend the authority of the municipality from the public area to other publicly accessible places not yet governed by law. These are already mentioned zoos or some parks that are not public spaces. I would just like to point out that in New York, where, you all know, there's a huge, huge area of Central Park that hits a large percentage of New York itself, there's a total ban on smoking at any hour around the area, and there's a huge space. So I think that even here, in these cases, we could take a little example in some way. I'm still getting a ban on smoking in prisons. It seems to be just as a very framework issue, but remember that some prisoners who are in prison do not have the opportunity, like other free residents or citizens, to leave these areas, which are flooded with pollutants in terms of huge amounts of smoke in these areas. I would like to add that the prison service should be able to carry out the verification of compliance with the obligation laid down in this Section 8 para. 1. It is a relatively intense problem of protection against passive smoking in those prisons, because there are diseases such as Bürgerův's disease, where also stay, i.e. Even passive smoking can make the health of those patients very significantly worse, in this case prisoners in the respective cells, and it would certainly be possible to say with certain hair pulling that this is a form of torture if we were not able to ensure that the Czech Prison Service is able to ensure and have the opportunity to ensure that persons in these buildings are protected from the damage caused by smoking. [[15.20 hours]] Finally, the last part that I would like to mention and which I would like to draw your attention to is the ban on smoking in medical facilities. The proposal is that it is recommended to provide for the possibility in the premises of the health facility to reserve the outside space for smoking, as it included the previous government proposal. The current text of the proposal does not mention the outside space reserved for smoking. This raises the issue of whether the smoking ban is to apply to the entire outer space without exception or, on the contrary, whether the smoking ban is not to apply to the outer space at all. There are already some medical facilities that prohibit smoking in the entire complex - I think it is Motol Hospital, Trutnov Hospital and others - or with the exception of outside areas reserved for smoking - for example in the Hradec Králové Faculty Hospital. It is therefore proposed to meet these initiatives and to ensure a uniform legal regime for the prohibition of smoking in indoor and outdoor spaces, with the possibility of setting up external smoking areas. That's all in a nutshell here. I would take the liberty of having one more small sip, that during my work I conducted every week oncological rounds of interdisciplinary, where we walked from two, five and sometimes into sixteen new patients who were affected by a malignant disease in the area of our head and neck. And very often, unfortunately, I had to tell those patients that they would either be subjected to exercise or that there would be death, that there was no other way to treat them. [[unintelligible]] And believe me, when you talk to these people after a while, they always just say - please, nicely, just tell me why someone didn't knock that cigarette out of my hand. It's really the kind of thing you say to yourself - it doesn't happen to me. But if it really occurs that the patient's own life is at risk or is severely limited by not being able to speak well, he will not be able to eat well, etc., then these people are really resorting to some kind of opposition and they are saying - why, please, you have not forbidden me in some way for what reason I have been supported in this way. And I think - and I very much appreciate the fact that this law arises here with the support and for the plaintiff of the Ministry of Health, because I think it is something that we owe to our society in a way. Thank you for your attention. I would also like to add that I would then sign up for the authorship of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Klán's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to my previous speaker. He was talking about the examples of the smokers - why someone didn't take it out of my hand. Then I have to ask the other side. Why are tobacco products actually distributed? Why are they sold? That's a perfectly simple argument. Then why is the state distributing it, selling it, and taxing it? So let's also ask this question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u17	Chairman Kalousek. A real point, Mr. Chairman, is that correct? Or do you wish to speak with priority rights? Seriously, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u18	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to fix my colleagues, but I'd hate for this sentence to remain true in the air. The state doesn't distribute it, the state doesn't sell it. They distribute and sell it to legal and natural persons. The state has taxes on it, yes. But it certainly doesn't distribute, it certainly doesn't sell. That was here 27 years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u19	Mr Kostřica also, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u20	Thank you. It's just a little thing. Of course, these proposals go further and further away from the total ban on smoking, etc. There is also one special proposal that has been discussed in medical professional societies, when it was recommended, given that there is, of course, an addiction, and the harmfulness of this smoking habit is very rapid, so that, for example, children born in 2010 may never receive cigarettes in their lives. This means, by the time they are 18 years old, they will not be allowed to smoke in order to avoid smoking habits. It's more of an interesting thing, but even such proposals appear in professional medical societies. This is due to the fact that smoking does not really occur in youths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u21	Mr. Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u22	It's been talking about smoking bans all the time, and how we're the worst in Europe. But, of course, this has to do with the consumption of marijuana. That's where we are. Now let's ask ourselves why. The next question to the discussion is only. If this leads to the fact that when a large benevolence is allowed to smoke, it is available - I was saying the principle of good regulation here, i.e. that if there are special stores where tobacco will be sold, tobacco products really specially, it is a type of good regulation that can be controlled, so we will eliminate it. But we're not getting anywhere with a general ban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u23	If there are no further factual remarks, the word duly applied for by Mr Vondráček shall be given.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to get back to the concept that the Minister here has tried to introduce that we will be more brief and more relevant. I wouldn't want to complicate the adoption of this law, which he's already tried his own. The discussion was off the charts. We've already discussed where we're going. I don't want to go back to smoking. I would just like to draw attention in the discussion to my amendment, which concerns § 13 para. 3 and which is that the seller is obliged to have in the range of drinks offered in this establishment one soft drink cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic beverage offered in the same volume. This is a matter that we did not deal with at first communion, more important tasks were to pass this smoking ban at all. I was brought to the attention because as a legislator, I sacrificed myself, put my life and health at risk, and I went to the pub to ask about it. Those innkeepers warned me that it wasn't clear to them. What is it, then? One non-alcoholic beverage of the same volume must be cheaper than one alcoholic beverage, i.e. A pint of something must be cheaper than a pint of beer. And is this one case enough? So maybe it could be said that a blanket of beer and a blanket of water would be sold, or would it be on the menu, and would you have done your duty by now? There was a bartender leaning toward it. I didn't agree to it. I was more concerned with all the volumes. That if you're offering a pint of beer, you must have a pint of soft drink cheaper. If you're offering a small beer, a third, you have to have a cheaper third of something. The problem here is that the soft drinks are distributed in different packages than the alcohol. For example, different cokes are in two ounces, not in three ounces, so the innkeeper in question would have to buy a little bit and complete his offer accordingly. So it would already hit his range of what he can and can't sell. And now the main thing. Alcoholic beverages are also sold in volumes of 0,05 and 0,02. Well, in order for the innkeeper to do it, if he's selling a bottle of rum, he has to offer a bottle of water. Did it attack the authors at the Department of Health? If the minister ever tells me who wrote it, I'll take them to the pub and we'll discuss it. But take it, if I think about it, really if we talk about every volume, then even like those shots, some soft drink has to be offered. It's all about the irregularities here. Then I was asked what it was to have in the product range. He's not exactly a legislative term to have in the product range. Is it enough if it's written on a beverage ticket or does it have to be in stock? And what if it comes down to the warehouse just when someone from the control office comes in? Will he understand? Can he make excuses, or won't the clerk understand? Answer each other's questions. You have experience with civil servants, how it would be handled. [[15.30 hours]] So I guess in the vast majority, they'll all be dealing with it by offering the same volume of tap water. Everybody's gonna do it. I'd do it as a pub boy, too. Perhaps they are reasonable and will maintain what is in some pubs today, that for lunch, for a menu, they offer a pitcher of water free of charge and that we may not kill water free of charge, in some pubs that they will still be free of charge over lunch. But to do that, we'll have a third of the water. Now, if you need a Pilsner for, say, 37 crowns in some restaurants, there'll still be a pint of water for 36.90. It's gonna be fine by the letter of the law, but I'm gonna ask all of you if this provision of the law is really useful, if that's what we really wanted. I sat with some of my colleagues at lunch, they explained it to me. The original idea was good. When you come to a discotheque, it often happened that a pint of beer was by far the cheapest drink that was there, because if you wanted to buy a coke, you'd double it for the same amount. So I understand where this was headed. However, I object that the legislative text itself could probably have written better, so that it made sense to fight against what I am saying here. That means a good thought, a good intention, a good result in, like, three, I'd say. So I don't want to talk about this after it's an attack on free private pricing. I leave these noble arguments in my amendment, which I have read into the system, and there is a detailed explanation for it, you can read it in peace. I will not bother with this in this section, and I would rather ask you, because I have also tabled this amendment to the Health Committee, but it was actually not the result of a procedure that was voted on at all because, in substance, the same was put forward by colleague Benda. His vote was earlier, he wasn't accepted, mine couldn't have been voted on. So I took the liberty of presenting him here again in plenary, and I'm going to ask you again, let's say at peace, let's think about it. The law won't be easy anyway, there are a lot of issues, we'll definitely deal with water pipes, various limitations and different systems, and this is a relatively small thing that could complicate things for us. So if it would not be best at this stage, 3 of paragraph 13 to release and perhaps to remember the discussion and to return to it, but for the moment not to address this question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give another word, I'll read the apology. Today, from 15 to 16.15 for personal reasons, Mr. Josef Uhlík apologizes. Now another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ivan Adamec and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u26	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I never really wanted to go against the smoking law because I have a little problem myself. Not that I smoke cigarettes, I really don't care, but sometimes a cigar, yes. But the Minister provoked me a little bit, and the debate that was here, and of course we're at second reading, so I'm going to say what I'm going to lean towards. Of course, when I see it, opinions go through the political spectrum. We all have smoking opponents, I get it, I understand doctors for sure, then we have liberals who say, whatever the innkeepers do, and then, of course, we have those who wouldn't want regulation. I confess, so I refuse to regulate on principle, so I have a big problem with that. And I have to say, the situation has really improved and changed. The minister no longer wears an urn, which is good. I don't know if he had any family in there, but I hope it was an empty prop. But he says that every other reading is better and better, and when I learned today that this is the priority of this coalition, this bill, I don't understand it a little bit, but I understand that we probably all have a different priority and that you decided to approve it in the form that you like it. I have to say that I overheard recently, and it's a very recent day, two days ago, on the radio, on the radio, the innkeeper's opinion that they're actually okay with the law, but they're saying that even without the law, non-smoking restaurants are growing. And then I have to wonder if really smoking in restaurants is something that we have to regulate by law. Because the idea that we regulate every human activity by law, in my opinion, is completely wrong, and on the contrary, when we regulate it by law, how many times we do more harm than good, because we find, of course, that human qualities are such that the law of course goes around and is not for, I would say, morale in society is good. Absolutely not. So the pub is growing, so I'm wondering why to regulate. Then I also hear that some parents welcome to go to a non-smoking restaurant with their children tonight. I can't imagine taking kids to a foursome. Let's face it, these aren't the restaurants that we know there is, of course, one innkeeper, mostly the owner, and that's definitely not going to have dinner for that kind of visitor composition. When I hear a smoking objector here, I understand. I understand - yes, it's harmful to health, it's what experts say. I know from my cases that sometimes it helped, but I don't want to argue with experts here, I don't want to make myself someone I'm not. And I certainly don't mind that the public sphere has already made that regulation. That's definitely okay with me. It is perfectly fair to say that if this House decides that there will be 100% or 100% in the public sector of regulation. There will be a 100% ban, so I may not like it, but I say it is the right of this House to decide what public space will look like. Eventually, it's working now. Smoking is banned in public buildings, it's in places where it's public, such as stops, etc., so I think it's right here. And the whole problem is, and it's hard to explain that actually, as my colleague here said, it's normal not to smoke, so I'm also saying that it's normal to do what I want in my property in accordance with the law. And that's what comes to mind here, and that's why we reject complete regulation. By the way, when I heard a speech here a little while ago that it should be forbidden to smoke in cars, that it should be forbidden to smoke in parks, I can ask myself, where will those cigarettes be smoking? But of course, it's a completely different problem here. If parents are reasonable, they don't smoke in the car. And they're their children, their responsibility. Let's not take responsibility for our parents. We still have that, we're trying to keep playing at the fact that the state will regulate everything, and I can't accept this and I'm against it. So what I'm saying is, if there's a tendency to increase the powers of the municipalities, that they can regulate the areas where you can smoke in the park, in the forest park, etc., then I'll be hard against it. By the way, smoking came here - it was not customary in the Central European space of smoking in the historical period before America appeared before Kolumbus brought the first tobacco from America, where the culture was founded in a completely different way, where, of course, members of the American continent smoked, even had it as a social matter. You will all remember Indians, whether real or artificial by Karel May, that peace was confirmed by smoking a peace pipe. If we're gonna do some business here or if there's an action, what are we doing here in our space? A cigar doesn't burn here, sometimes it does, but there's a glass of alcohol to drink here. So now we ban smoking, then we ban alcohol, and then we can do whatever we want, and I don't know what. So I would like to say that I also support the possibility of the owners having some space. By the way, it regulates itself at this point, non-smoking restaurants are increasing, and if we strictly insist on bans everywhere, then the village pub ends because the EET is joining it, there's just no reason for village restaurants to be somewhere. I support Marek Benda's proposal, and even if you're already determined in advance, I'm telling you why I'm going to do it, and I think if someone here is talking about right-handness, about obstruction, I'd say property, property ownership, then don't tell you what you're gonna raise your hand for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u27	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. For the sake of order, I say that from 15 to 16.15 Mr. Josef Uhlík, but Mr. Jaroslav Klaška, is not sorry. Now next in line, Mr. Mr. Marek Benda... First of all, Mr Klán and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to reflect a little bit and respond to my previous speaker, Mr Adamec. Of course, I agree with him on some things. And I'm going to answer here and to regulate the ban on smoking in parks and somewhere else where it can still be banned. It's the wrong kind of regulation again. Again. Who's gonna control it, who's gonna enforce it? That's the problem. We're going to ban it formally as at the stops, as I've set my example here in my normal proper application, at the station. It's formally written that it's forbidden, but everyone's breaking it anyway. Nobody's following it because nobody's making it work. That's one thing. And when he spoke of the amendment that Mr Benda has in his system, I will also support him, because he reflects in some way the Danish model, which I have also mentioned here, where there is a certain choice. So me, too, and as I say, I'm a leftist politician, I'm proud to be a leftist politician, so I look at reality with normal eyes and common sense, how it normally works in reality. So it's better to actually accept some compromise than to make some strict bans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u29	Thank you. And now, Mr Marek Benda, duly applied for, and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u30	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers - there are exceptionally many - rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen. In general, I was expected to be haunted at second and third readings. I'm not going to do anything like that. I'm even friendly myself. Mr Vondráček's proposal, which I also submitted to the Health Committee - and which I found that he had confused colleagues from the Health Committee so much that they were unable to recognise that it was the same proposal, and only because it was my proposal, they did not support it, and if it were the proposal of Mr Vondráček's colleague, I would have withdrawn it. I will join the proposal submitted by my colleague Vondráček. I will not put forward x amendments, only a few that I consider necessary. The minister here said, every reading of the law improves. I totally agree with that. Except for a tiny change. He's so decent to his design. I understand that. But every other reading from the bill will throw away some other crap that the ministry and its officials have written. Forgive me for being a little expressive, you know I don't use it very often, but when things are completely illogical and completely contrary to common sense and the natural course of things and the world as we know them, I'm not afraid to mark them with a slightly stronger word. So, yes, every other reading, and if we repeat the reading, and maybe I'll suggest it in the third reading, if we repeat another ten, we'll always find another part that can be greatly improved. Which could be put into a state of common sense. At this point, I would particularly like to try to convince you that the proposal for separate smoking shops, as presented in the second reading of the original ministerial proposal, was approved by 94 votes in this Chamber of Deputies, I think by a perfectly conscious 94 votes. And then it was used only as a pretext to bring this proposal back into the government to the Minister of Health. In order to convince you that this proposal is reasonable and is consistent with the Ministry of Health's plan, it is consistent with what the Ministry of Health wants to enforce, and it would be appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to back it up again and not put pressure on its party secretariats, virtually. coalition nines, but voted in the way that individual Members think the vote should be taken. In general, the effort of social democracy and the Minister of Health to enact a total ban on smoking in all public and virtually. In private but public-accessible eating facilities, I consider it an idea that belongs exactly to those ideas that are being carried by the Marxist intellectual left and that are driving them away in the end, driving away the normal rural voices that have always voted for them. Because I think if this law falls on anyone, even in connection with the EET, it's going to be the village fours. There is no real problem in Prague. On the contrary, it is difficult to find a restaurant in Prague where you can smoke. Here you already have most non-smoking restaurants, as the press release presented by the associations of hotel operators and restaurants. And now I don't know if I'm quoting the association exactly. Most newly founded enterprises are non-smoking. It's just the market's doing it itself. The only ones who really get it are country pubs that go for beer, beer smokes, no food is served there, and that either close or force them to get completely into the base of the grey economy. Because they put a ball on the outside, they say it's a club, and they're just gonna let them in on knocking or their friends and friends or people giving away keys. If this is to be a target, I think it's a very wrong target. During the summer, the Parliamentary Institute worked, and I assume that you all have this at your disposal, a study on what smoking ban looks like in individual European countries and what the possibility of some separate space looks like, virtually. exceptions. I'll take the countries we got in detail first. Then I'll go through the ones we got at least in the general report. Denmark, Nordic country. Bars - smoking is not allowed in establishments greater than 40 metres. Smoking may be allowed in such areas only in smoking or smoking cabins. Food must not be served in smoking rooms or smoking booths. Smoking facilities up to 40 square metres may be permitted at their discretion. One of the strict countries. Germany. We all know that Germany does not have a centrally regulated smoking ban. It has regulation at Member State level. But only three of these Member States, Sarah, North Rhine-Westphalia and Bavaria, have a total ban on smoking. Everyone else has some exceptions. Poland. Smoking is prohibited in bars and restaurants except smoking exclusively for smoking. That's exactly what I'm trying to suggest here. Smoking facilities exclusively used for smoking. Equipment having at least two rooms may be intended for smokers if it is equipped with ventilation to ensure that tobacco smoke does not penetrate other rooms. Even food can be served in these areas. Poland. I'm not even asking you to. Sweden - restaurants, bars. Smoking is prohibited in all establishments where food or drink is served. Smoking is permitted only in outdoor areas or in special rooms which are equipped with ventilation and are intended for smoking. It is not possible to bring food and drink into these spaces. Switzerland. Adjusted at canton level. Some cantons allow smoking in small bars and rooms that do not serve food and drink and which are equipped with the necessary ventilation. Now, countries where we don't have this detailed report anymore, but I'm gonna go through it again. [[15.50 hours]] Belgium. Smokers are allowed to exist, they must be separated and equipped with ventilation. No food can be served in smoking shops. Bulgaria doesn't allow smoking, that's right. Estonia allows smoking. Finland allows, must be structurally separated and ventilation equipment. Smokers must not serve or consume food. Same with France. Yes, smoking rooms allowed. They shall be structurally separated and equipped with ventilation. No food must be served in smoking shops and there is also a ban on access to minors. Another country, I'm not going to calculate all of it, but of the big ones we're talking about - Italy, yes, smoking allowed. They must be separated by construction, equipped with ventilation and smaller than non-smoking areas. I could count another one. But if we go through European countries, the majority is modified to allow smoking plants to exist, which are structurally separated and equipped with ventilation. And now, let's look at the proposal that we've been arguing about all this time, which Professor Vyzula, the chairman of the Health Committee, has taken - and I'm a little sick of - and you know that I've already said that - he said that's the proposal that turned the anti-smoking law into a smoking law. I understand that it was a strong statement at a certain emotionally tense moment, but nevertheless I am trying to convince this House that it is indeed, but it is not. What do I suggest? In restaurants and other public catering areas, provide for a total ban on smoking except for a separate smoking area. Of course, this space might not have been created, but it could have been created. It is purely up to the owner or operator of the restaurant to set up such a space. And if such a space were to be created, it is said in the law, of course: Where an operator of a food service establishment sets up a building-separated smoking area, it shall ensure that no food is served in such an area except for dishes which customers themselves carry into such a separate smoking area. None of the attendants and staff need to be there. Furthermore, the operator of the food service establishment shall ensure that the building-separated space reserved for smoking in the food service facilities is not more than 25 per cent of the total floor area of the establishment. That's a maximum of 25 percent. Of course, it must be as stipulated, another special ventilation, a special entrance, must not be brought in food. That doesn't make the staff come in. Then I wonder what's wrong with it. On the contrary, if we don't do something like this, it's most likely to happen spontaneously and alone, except it won't be part of the establishment anymore, but it'll be some other public space marked as a smoking shop, except the restaurant won't report to it anymore. I have repeatedly said and asked the Minister to explain to me whether he or those fundamental advocates the need for a total ban on smoking, in which he sees the advantage of smoking being driven to frost, virtually. Outside the building, except someone wants to punish them. That's a possible punishment. But then my colleague, Rom Kostřica, has explained to us enough colorfully how we smokers will be punished at the end of our lives with diseases that will affect us, so I think this punishment will come naturally. But it's useless to be punished by the state. Moreover, this, of course, leads to - and this is known particularly to the centers of larger cities, where the number of restaurants that are non-smoking is expanding more and more - it leads those smokers to stand outside the premises, to form a group, to children to be just a bad example - just a bad example, and to many times to harass people above the plant, whether by excessive noise or by inhaling tobacco smoke. I wanted to ask this House very much to consider - and I am really putting a minimum of proposals, and then in a detailed debate I will draw attention to some of the proposals relating to the penalty section, where I think that some of the sanctions proposed by the Ministry are absolutely disproportionate risks that lie within them in violation of this law. But I would like to ask the House to consider Mr Benda's amendment, not by accepting the coalition's agreement, that the coalition has agreed this way, but by asking whether the proposal is or is not reasonable, whether it helps and can help the minority part of society that is committed to smoking, and whether, in any sense, it harms the majority part of society that has decided not to smoke. I think that the majority of society that has decided not to smoke is in no way harmful, in no way does it matter, and then I think it is reasonable for the minority to meet the proposal to be agreed and to allow it where it is possible, where the operator will stand to have a separate space, where it will be possible to sit and light the cigar, pipe or cigarette in peace, was created and not pushed into that grey space. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u31	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, let me also say a few words in this less important law for citizens of the Czech Republic. First of all, here I represent my colleague Václav Snopek, who has already shown a quite erudized interest in this law in the past. Unfortunately, he is not present, yet he has furnished me with 28 pages of comments, which I am very happy to present on his behalf to the committee responsible for studying and discussing, and I will sign up to this amendment in a detailed debate. Now a few small words on the nature of this law. My previous speakers dealt quite very cleverly with the battery of this design, pointed out its errors, shortcomings, or, on the contrary, pointed out its benefits and benefits. On this point, I would like to accept the opinion of myself, Members of Parliament, and also, I admit it, an occasional smoker. I'm not an addicted smoker. I tried for myself that I just didn't have a problem not smoking the whole vacation, but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u33	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down so that you understand what is being said here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u34	Thank you. But I confess that sometimes I like the pleasant smell of tobacco and the peace it gives me. That is why I will allow myself to divide the contributions that are being made here today, and the position of our honourable House on this law into categories. The first categories are those who see a certain mission in this, mostly doctors. It's a message to try to cure the infirmity of this law. Here I think the path from their point of view is understandable, even though I think it's in vain. The infirmities of their practice know thousands and treat them by law, in my opinion, do not lead to the goal. They may also realize that, and they know that this is simply a small effort to save someone who will take heart that compliance with the law will help him healthily. Yes, I'm able to understand. The next group to perform here feels obliged to the hospitality workers. The passive smokers who are being poisoned by smoke from those who smoke in these businesses. I also understand their position on this law and I am able to perceive it. I feel a certain responsibility to the people around me when I smoke. I'm not trying to blow smoke in the face, as they say. I'm just trying to smoke where I don't bother. [[16.00 hours]] There's a solution to this. The solution has already been communicated before me and, in my opinion, the world is sufficiently documented how to proceed. In that last case, I can imagine an area without operator, when anyone who wants to smoke it simply takes his coffee, which he ordered, out of the space where it is not allowed to smoke, into the closed ventilated space, where he drinks it with a taste, even if a non-smoking person would not enter the space. Yes, I understand the attitude. The third position here in this House is, let's say - I don't want to use some pejorative expression - people who see it as a particular mission. This is what we meet with people who defend the environment, which many of us say are eco-related, which we just think about. They are simply people who perceive that smoking is not healthy, is bad, is a bad example, and have taken on the goal of fighting against it. These are people I understand too. I understand that they have a mission and they want to promote it. You will get to know these people quite clearly, because they really want something to change in this particular matter. Unfortunately, the fourth group, in my opinion, the largest group that is represented here, is a group that looks at the laws from a media perspective. They're looking at whether the law is medially interesting, whether it's medially dangerous, and whether it could be used for visibility. You can tell these people by how they behave in front of the microphone and how they behave behind the scenes of this House. And I think that the laws adopted by this fourth group are in direct conflict with the interests of this society. And I will not repeat the arguments that my previous speakers here have said, I will not repeat the factual proposals and changes and I will not argue with them or support them. But I draw attention to the fact that this House does not slip into the articulation of the fourth group, which is only about making it visible, which is about gaining political points and which is about showing itself in a better light than it really is. Thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u35	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Jaroslav Krákora's rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I just want to introduce you to two sentences: that in a detailed debate, I want to adopt an amendment concerning the issue of drug policy and addictive substances, when the government sets up an advisory body and appoints a national drug policy coordinator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u37	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether at this point the appellant or rapporteur wants the final word. It's not like that. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I'm registering several applications. The first in a detailed debate is Mr Jan Klán. Please take the floor. Mr. Pleticha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u38	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. As I have already announced in my general debate, I am signing up for my amendments, which reflect models from Austria and Slovakia. They are listed in the system as House documents 5060, 5061 and 5062 and 5063. These are certain modifications of the same thing. At the same time, I want to read one amendment in the second section 3 paragraph. Three, I suggest we launch. It is technically difficult to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u39	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Pleticha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u40	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I want to sign up for my amendment, which is under number 5132 in the system. My amendment concerns the removal of the obligation to label the means of transport at the entrance by a sign in accordance with the annex to the Law of dimensions 12 x 16, because this matter is unnecessary. This regulation affects, for example, transport aircraft, it does not matter whether our carriers or foreign. However, it has been prohibited to smoke on decks since 1990 and the "smoking" sign has been banned over each seat, but not accompanied by the Czech text "smoking prohibited" and with dimensions of 12 x 16. Just as in the subway according to the law, every entrance to the subway car would have to be marked with a special label 12 x 16 non-smoking, while smoking has been prohibited in the entire transport area since the beginning of the subway. It would turn out just as absurdly to the international speedsters passing through the territory of the Czech Republic, typically on the line Berlin - Vienna, Berlin - Budapest. These are the wagons of foreign carriers. There would have to be a sign at every entrance. Similarly, I could continue - trams, buses. All these carriers have already had this regulated in the transport regulations, in the legislation relating to public transport. This is only another well-meaning obligation that affects the carrier, but completely ineffective. In the end, it will only lead to a further increase in costs for transport undertakings. On the other hand, it will also be a job for the label maker, but it doesn't have much to do with smoking. That's the main part. In connection with this, there is also a need to adjust the penalty provisions, because I cannot imagine how officials from the Office of the City of Prague 6 would go to the international area at the airport to check whether foreign aircraft have properly marked entrances. It's the kind of stuff that's left over from before. Unfortunately, I don't think the Ministry of Transport has worked properly, which should have caught it in the proposal. It's still in the last version. Perhaps now we can clear it so that the law has a head and a heel and unnecessary absurd situation does not arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u41	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Vondráček. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be quick. I just want to sign up for my amendment, which I have already duly justified in the general debate. It is introduced in the system under number 5059. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Benda, Mr Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u44	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore also be fairly brief. I would like to put forward one amendment hiding under House document 5097, those are the famous smokers, which I firmly hope will receive majority support in this House. Furthermore, under House document 5098, I put forward five further proposals, which deal in a small way with some of the shortcomings that remain in the Government's bill. In addition, in Section 36, I suggest that paragraph 12 be deleted, that is the penalty part, and if I propose that paragraph 4 be deleted in Section 35, then I suggest also that the prohibition be deleted from the penalty part of the action. I'd be a little late for that. [[16.10 hours]] I understand that the Ministry is proposing fines. Last week, in the context of criminal law proceedings, I pointed out here how many different sanctions we have in thousands of laws, how absolutely they have no internal logic and consistency. I'm afraid that even here in a number of cases, we are proposing completely inadequate financial sanctions for basically trivial violations. But financial sanctions are a thing that, if it's too big and I try for some time with the administrative justice system, I believe that the administrative justice system will end up combing it into some form that corresponds to the seriousness of the error. Contrary to the prohibition on the activity of natural persons or the prohibition on the operation of an establishment, which in fact means either physical or legal in the sense of a legal person, almost winding up. At the moment the administrative decision takes legal power, it is final, the appeal to the administrative court has only the effect that it is then decided, and there I see it as very dangerous that we do not get into situations... And really, I tried to point that out to the committee. The idea that I would say that a person who drinks alcohol before an activity where he could endanger health or property may, for a year, prohibit activity, regardless of what activity it is... When we have an adjustment to driving in cars, we have it very precise, very clearly described how the sanctions look, very clearly described that up to 0.22 is tolerated, up to 0.9 is a violation with up to half a year of withdrawal. And how it works! And here at the same time, when a doctor, a teacher, a firefighter, eventually even an MP, comes to work under the influence of alcohol, so an organ can, and there are about seven bodies that can decide to do so, he may decide to withdraw his license for a year to operate a business. I really find that very inadequate. And I would ask very much that even if you wanted to push through the bill in this form, that those two amendments should still be considered, because they seem innocent, but even if it were five people to whom they would fall and fall in this devastating way, I think that this is an entirely inadequate situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u45	And thank you, too. Mr Luzar now, Mr Uhlík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have already announced in the general debate, I present here, for my colleague Snopek, an extensive substance of amendments with due justification. These proposals are registered under number 5133 in the system. I would just like to say here that, given the content, I would not recommend the Committee to shorten the time limits for discussion, because in my opinion, it is necessary to deal with all the comments which are included in this proposal. I confess, I do not envy the committee for this work, but in my other outputs I will no longer elaborate and read individual points. I firmly believe that if we are serious, we will find common sense in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u47	Thank you. Mr Uhlík will be the last to speak, or he or she will be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby subscribe to my colleague Bartošek's amendment, which is listed in the system under House document number 5046. The amendment concerns the financing of adictological services, treatment and prevention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr. Krákora.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u50	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members. As I have already said, I am signing up for the amendment under number 5131. It concerns the establishment of an advisory body and the appointment of a national drug policy coordinator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-001-010.u51	I thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. I don't see interest. In that case, thank you and I finish second reading of this bill. I'll read the apologies. On 25 October from 17 to 18 o'clock for personal reasons and on 26 October from 16 to 17 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes. Furthermore, from today's meeting, Mr Kořenek apologizes from 17.15 to 19.00 for working reasons. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
