ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended, and other related laws /house print 569/ - second reading The hearing was suspended at the 44th meeting and then suspended until this afternoon in the decision of 25. This year's 5th. We interrupted the negotiations on this press on May 25th. The item has not been launched and it is therefore necessary for the proposal tabled to be presented by the Minister of the Interior, who is on the spot. And a colleague of Koníček, too. So, Minister, you have your opening words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce a government bill amending the law on association in political parties and in political movements and other related laws. The main objective of the bill is to introduce a more transparent control of the funding of political parties and political movements. New obligations are laid down for these political entities, in particular the obligation to use the so-called "financing'. transparent accounts. Furthermore, the financial limit for donations from both natural and legal persons is set. The Parties and the Movement may not accept in one calendar year from the same person gifts which would exceed the sum of CZK 3 million. A member's contribution in this amount will also be considered to exceed CZK 50,000. The obligation to provide a more detailed overview of revenue and expenditure on annual financial reports, including election expenditure, is also introduced. Parties and movements will be obliged to publish annual financial administrations on the Internet. The accounting auditor will be able to have the party after a maximum of five years and will then have to change it. The bill allows the party or movement to form or be a member of the political institute. According to the draft law, the political institute is a publicly beneficial legal person aimed at supporting research, publication, educational or cultural activities in political and public life. The possibility of providing a State contribution to support the activities of these institutes is also being introduced. On the basis of the recommendation of GRECO, which is the Group of States against Corruption at the Council of Europe, the content of the bill is also the establishment of an independent office for the management of political parties and political movements. The Office will be an independent body formed by the President, four members and other employees of the Czech Republic, i.e. the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc, and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was ordered to the Committee of Constitutional Law. The Committee's resolution was delivered to us as House prints from 569/1 to 5. The minutes of the meeting of the Supervisory Committee were also served as the House Press 569/6. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, Chairman of the Committee, Vladimír Koníček, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. At its 31st meeting on 13 April 2016 on this House press in order to recommend the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill tabled, out of the ten Members present, three voted in favour, zero voted against and seven abstained. So the resolution was not adopted. So much for the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Vladimír Koníček. And now I would ask the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, also the chairman of the committee, Mr Jeroným Tejc, to inform us about the discussion in the constitutional committee, to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to shorten my speech to refer you to the press on this point, where you will find the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee of the 60th meeting held on 30 March 2016. The Constitutional Committee has discussed and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies the adoption of this bill after the discussion which has been repeated in this press, with the fact that there are several parties to the amendments that you will find in the committee resolution, which are, of course, forwarded in writing. They concern both the issue of the adjustment of financial reports, that is, what they should contain, and specifically the functioning of both the supervision of the management of the parties and, of course, the questions of the Office. So much news for this press for the negative committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u7	I thank the President of the Committee of Constitutional Law for the report and open a general debate in which I have two Members now signed up. First Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u8	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. At the outset, I will briefly comment on the TOP 09's established or proposed political party oversight authority, because in this law, the right debate on this is being set up here. I have to give credit to those previous speakers who expressed disapproval and doubts about the establishment of this office, whether from a constitutionally formal point of view, as well as content. It is really a question of whether a simple law which does not have the character of a constitutional law can establish an office to oversee the activities of political parties whose activities are enshrined in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This is very controversial and I think very problematic. And now for the very purpose of establishing a new office. I myself oppose the creation of new authorities in a situation where it is not clear and there is no clear analysis that existing institutions could also manage this activity. I ask, for example, what is the control committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which carries out certain activities towards political parties, less independent than the new Office for the Supervisory of Political Parties, which is politically occupied on the basis of the will of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. On the contrary, all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies are represented in the Supervisory Committee, and there can be some cross-checking of this activity. The new office, which is supposed to have 15 employees, probably none of us fully believes that, and I think that it was possible to define control activities towards political parties from existing institutions, whether the Commission of the Deputies, of course the tax and financial authorities, as well as the Supreme Audit Office. After all, last year, in view of the competence of the Supreme Audit Institute, if there was a will here in the Chamber of Deputies, then I do not see why we could not trust the Supreme Audit Office to supervise control activities towards political parties when we change the Constitution and we did not have to create a new office, which will be politically occupied and whose independence can be greatly doubted. I will now introduce you to the content of two amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. As the first amendment, which I believe will lead to greater transparency in the financing of political parties, I say that loans and loans to political parties should only be granted to banks, i.e. licensed entities licensed by the Czech National Bank, according to my proposal. They are credible entities and there are clear, readable rules for lending political parties. On the contrary, this proposal would therefore exclude the possibility of financing political parties through loans granted by different anonymous natural or legal persons to whom political parties may then be obliged after the elections. So it is for greater transparency of political parties that banks, as credible institutions licensed by the Czech National Bank, should provide loans and loans to political parties. And the second amendment, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate, is to propose that political institutes be removed from this bill. Through these political institutes, the state budget, taxpayers, would finance a hidden or hidden election campaign of political parties. I do not think it is appropriate to increase the cost of the state for political parties, and indeed those costs would then be used to promote political parties especially before the elections, and this is not desirable. Therefore, I propose an amendment which will exclude political institutes and their funding from the state budget from this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u9	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek and ask colleague Hovorka to wait, I have two factual points. First, Mr Jeroným Tejc's factual remark, then President Stanjura's. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor of a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u10	Mr Vice-President, I would like to take the liberty of responding to the words of Mr Plíšek and others that have been raised here in the direction of the establishment of the office. I myself was very skeptical and, to a large extent, I am still skeptical of whether the office is the best choice. On the other hand, we faced a decision as to whether to have no control or control by the Office. From the outset, I supported the debates that have been going on for several years in order to be the Supreme Audit Office, but this is not something that only the SAO does not prevent, even the setting up of these supervisory authorities, even though we can have disputes about it as it is in Europe, but it is mainly the practice that prevents it, because I cannot imagine that if we want to set up a check that we can do so by amending the Constitution, virtually. Constitutional laws. I am convinced that this would be just a game of trying to make a difference, and we would eventually achieve nothing. So in this I definitely perceive skepticism to the new office, I'm not very much a follower of this solution, but we choose from the variants that we have here, and another option than either not to check or control the office here at the moment is not on the table. And for those who are not satisfied with the fact that the office is being created, and they call it useless, so I would like to say that from my point of view, no office is useless if it is based in Brno. I would like to propose that this office change its registered office from the proposed Prague headquarters to Brno. I'll justify it at second reading. And I would also like to say that this is not just a proposal that is unfounded. I think that this can also have economic implications, and this is favourable, because, of course, in terms of the functioning of the office in such an expensive city in terms of rentals and also the search for labour, Brno would appear to be a cheaper option than Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u11	I thank Mr Tejc for his time. Now, Mr Stanjura also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. To follow up on the previous speaker, if I had known, I would have drafted an amendment that we would do a pilot project, and the Office would work for the first years to control the economy at the Brno level. That would be logical. There would be an office in Brno, in particular to control urban organisations and then to evaluate the pilot project whether to transfer such an office to central level or not. Just a brief response from the Member, not to the main thing he said, but he said here: we approved the amendment to the Constitution on the SAO. We may have, but the amendment to the Constitution didn't go through. Just so we're clear, there's no change in the Constitution due to the SAO. I know Mr. Colleague Plíšek knows that. Only for those who may have watched it, the upper chamber refused to change. And remember how We told you: do not hasten on the law. I look forward to voting on the rejected law on the SAO, how those who were for him for the first time, now for the second time, do not know whether to approve it or not. But they hit a dead end we warned about. [[16.10 hours]] Because I still have 55 seconds, so... This office is useless. If anyone says otherwise, I think they're wrong. But it hasn't come up yet, and there are already myths at the microphone - the office will secure, the office will check, the office will check. I think that sometimes less is more, often less is less than more, and do you find the existing system when we control each other's management reports in the control committee to be bad? That's what they're built on, for example. the precinct electoral commission that our representatives control each other so much, thus ensuring independence and that it will be fair. As soon as any government majority takes over that office, there may be doubts. If it were at least that the office had as many members as the House parties, and each elected one -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u13	Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u14	I'm sorry, Vice-President, I can see it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u15	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Koníček and then by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u16	Mr Vice-President, I must respond to President Tejc's words because he said that you have a choice between the office or no control. I would really like to say that, because at the moment, even though the law will still be adopted in 2016, there will be a review of the inspection committee of the Chamber of Deputies, so the current situation is that the annual financial reports of the political parties are being checked. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior, it has already been said here in the speech of Mr Plíšek. Really, what is the office or, if established, will be more independent than the fifteen members of the Supervisory Committee who are given a mandate in elections? And every four years, no later than four years, they change. You were watching the inspection committee change. For the time being, three electoral periods control annual financial reports. There is one Member left from the first parliamentary term, there are three from the second parliamentary term. So there's 12 new ones. Every four years, the majority of the Supervisory Committee shall be renewed and checked by that authority. You're always calling for sanctions. Do you really think that the outcome of this law will be that this office will grant you the $10,000 or the $100,000 fine every 14 days as political parties? Is this the result of the establishment of the office? I think that's the way to hell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u17	Thank you, Mr Koníček. I note the factual remark made by Mrs Miroslava Němcová and the application with the priority right of Minister Dienstbier. Now, therefore, a factual point, Mrs Němcová. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the need for a new office reminded me of the debate we had in the Chamber of Deputies, I do not know now whether it has been 14 years or how long since we talked about the establishment of a new office, then the Ombudsman's office. Everyone here has been enchanted by how this will be a wonderful office, which will ensure all the reform of public affairs, will help politics, will be a very strong support for our citizens, and that without such an office, we simply will not move one step. We, as the Civil Democratic Party at the time, did not see such good in the establishment of this new office. We have defended ourselves with reasonable arguments against its origin. And now only Mr Tejc's proposal reminded me of my own activity, when already in despair of how to prevent this law from ever going through, so I naively took the idea that then the law assumed that the headquarters of the Ombudsman would be in Prague, so I thought to myself, so I will propose Brno, taking it up with all the other Members who are from somewhere, they will propose Opava, Ostrava, I don't know what everything, and that will simply destroy the law. It didn't work then, it stayed with the design Prague - Brno and won Brno. And what is the result of the dispute about the usefulness of the Ombudsman's office at that time, we see today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u19	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Now with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier and still registered in the debate in the general part of Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, after all, stand up for the newly proposed office against the reservations that have been made here. I would draw attention to the fact that the proposed legislation introduces a number of responsibilities in terms of the financing of political parties. After all, the scope of control and activity will be much wider than that carried out by the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies today, including administrative decisions. Undoubtedly, the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies is not an administrative body. I think the reasons for setting up an office are here. The proposal was also based on the recommendation of the GRECO Group to the Council of Europe, which deals with recommendations on combating corruption, which also recommends, within certain standards, the establishment of an independent institution to control the financing of political parties. And I would also mention that the office is designed very cost-effectively. It's not a huge institution that swallows a lot of money, too, and it's set up in some sense. So it's actually a gentle setting of such an institution. And when I mentioned administrative proceedings here, that is precisely why this authority or authority cannot be entrusted to the Supreme Audit Office. Of course, it would be theoretically possible to change the Constitution, but it should be pointed out here that the Supreme Audit Office's character as an institution would be completely changed, because the SAO does not actually decide anything. Today, it issues control conclusions which are, in principle, a finding and recommendation for a controlled entity. It does not decide on any sanctions, it does not lead to any administrative proceedings, and therefore, although the SAO variant was discussed at the government level, it was excluded as impossible, because even the amendment to the Constitution was not seen as an appropriate and possible solution without distorting the nature of the Supreme Audit Office. I think there are good reasons for an economic independent office. And I would like to comment on one more thing, and these are the political institutes. Mr Plíšek here mentioned the possibility of abuse in the financing of election campaigns. If anyone takes a good look at the rules that are set out there, I think abuse is ruled out, as those political institutes are defined, what the rules of action are, what they are allowed to do. And, of course, it's possible to talk about whether these rules can be specified so that the abuse can actually be ruled out. Here I would also point out that the inspiration came from the German Federal Republic, where the so-called. political foundations, which form one of the pillars of civil and political education, are a more political part of the system, and then even civil education. In Germany, they go from budget to political foundations, not to mention civil education, to more resources than, for example, the activities of political parties themselves. I think it has also been given experience of how weak the democratic society in Germany was between wars, how easily developments in Germany have turned towards Nazism, and the lessons learned from this development from World War II have therefore led the Němec to invest huge resources in the civil and political education of their population. Even the rules for the functioning of political institutes, as set out in the proposed law, have tried very consistently to build on this very well-functioning German model. I think that, in addition to the political institutes, it is also necessary to discuss civil education, that this should also be strengthened as one of the two pillars in this area. That is why I would like to stand up for this institute, as well as for the austerity independent control office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u21	That was Minister Jiří Dienstbier and now, with a factual remark, Mr Koníček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u22	Mr Vice-President, I would like to correct Mr Dienstbier's argument. In the previous parliamentary term, the Supervisory Committee acted as an administrative body. I remember this well because I signed the decision when we fined the President of the Supreme Audit Office in February for not providing the documentation for carrying out the economic control where the SAO Act has this competence of the Chamber of Deputies. So, yes, in the pre-past parliamentary term, the audit committee acted as an administrative body. So, Minister, you weren't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u23	Thank you. Now duly registered colleague Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u24	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would follow up with Minister Dienstbier. He was talking about inspiration from German law. That's why I'm concerned that he didn't take over the whole law. Because then he would know that, for example, the Bundestag exercises control over the management of political parties, and their law is far more transparent and understandable than the law we have. However, it can be fixed. I'll get to that one step at a time. To the reservation, which is towards the fact that we cannot use the SAO to control the management of political parties, because it is the Supreme Audit Office, which is not an administrative authority, I want to say that this system works in Austria. And if we want to apply the principle here in our country, to use the services of the SAO, there is nothing to prevent the SAO from carrying out the control and granting the penalty to the designated financial office in the Czech Republic. There's no problem here. As regards the GRECO findings, or the recommendations of the GRECO parties, the Council of Europe anti-corruption group, which has repeatedly criticised us, there is, for example, a separate transparent account for all revenue and expenditure associated with the election campaign and the publication of a separate statement of campaign expenditure, there is no problem at all. Annual and financial reports in electronic form are available online, which is also not a problem. Mandatory designation of all pre-election advertising by the logo, on behalf of the contracting authority, is also not a problem. Independent supervisory authority, which will actively investigate the management of parties and campaigns, based on information from the media or citizens' initiatives, or on this information, and all financial transactions over CZK 20,000 cash-free. The only reservation is the special office that is to be created because, as I say, German legislation has been quite emphasized here, as well as the quality of it, so I would recommend, since the explanatory report on this bill also mentions Austrian legislation and Austrian control of political parties and movements, or the German system of control of the management and financing of political parties, then I would recommend that the law be translated and transformed whole. I have not had so much time, but I have prepared amendments aimed either at maintaining the competence of the Chamber of Deputies, or, as in this German amendment, the powers to control the President of the Chamber of Deputies were passed on, as is the case in the Bundestag. I would first like to mention the amendments that I have prepared for the limits on donations. I think there should be a limit on donors for the party, from one donor in one calendar year to the next at a maximum of 3 miles. Crowns. A similar limit should also be introduced to donations to political institutes and commercial corporations. It is necessary by law to limit the spectrum of possible donors of the political institute, as in the case of donors authorised by political parties. This measure can prevent prohibited donors from sending donations to the Institute's accounts instead of parties. The status of a public company, as currently proposed, does not preclude political institutes from receiving revenue from donors who are not allowed to donate funds to political parties and movements, e.g. trust funds, foreign donors, public participation entities. This condition does not preclude the possibility that a particular firm may pay back or in advance provide a counter-service to the political party by sending a donation to the political institute instead of to the political party. So these are two amendments aimed at limiting donors, both in the case of political parties and in the case of political movements. And now, therefore, for the amendment that I have prepared following the German legislation to transfer competences to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. A brief statement of reasons. The explanatory memorandum to the government proposal that we have made available, as one of the options for resolving supervision, also considers the option in which the function of the Chamber of Deputies is left to the supervisory authority. It is also possible to agree with the conclusions of the explanatory memorandum that it is not justified to require that it be given at the same time all the authorisations which belong to the classical administrative authority. Nevertheless, it is possible for the Chamber of Deputies to exercise full supervision over the management of political parties and movements. The proposed amendment, which I will then make, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, wants to remove the unnecessary creation of a new central administrative body to oversee the activities of political parties. The current draft envisages the establishment of an additional office which will expand the administrative apparatus, although it is clear from the good political practice of neighbouring states that similar measures are not needed to effectively supervise political parties. The amendment is based on the practice of the German model for controlling the financing of political parties. The German model gives the President of the Bundestag a clear definition of the powers to control and manage political parties and movements as a quasi-government body. The German model directly envisages, in its wording of the Law on political parties, that the President of the Bundestag issues administrative decisions and imposes financial sanctions. Since Germany can be considered one of the most developed democracies, the proposed procedure cannot be regarded as a practice contrary to the principles of the rule of law. The proposed amendment envisages that the President of the Chamber of Deputies will be given powers that have so far belonged to the Chamber of Deputies as a whole, and will also be able to impose sanctions for violating the law on association in political parties. Since this is a very specific law in itself, because political life is built on it, it is also justified if a specific model of control and punishment of political parties is set. Moreover, the proposed amendment, according to the German model, also envisages that the President of the Chamber of Deputies will regularly inform the House of its activities and that it will monitor its activities properly. The responsibility of the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the proper exercise of the powers conferred can also be attributed to this coherence. If we follow foreign practice, we will find that the proposed report on the action envisaged by the amendment is a very thorough and responsible document on several dozens of pages in German conditions. The proposed amendment to our legislation should therefore also look similar. At the same time, it should be recalled that the proposed amendment will not entail any significant costs for the functioning of the system. It can be assumed that the administrative apparatus of the Office of the President of the Chamber of Deputies will need to be increased in the order of individuals, but it will certainly be a fraction of the costs against the costs of setting up a new office. It should be pointed out that the Czech legislative regulation is designed in a rather complicated way, and its overall simplification should therefore be considered in order to increase legibility and clarity. If we look at German legislation, we will find that it is very clear and clear in the text. The new administrative authority appears to be redundant with regard to the Austrian arrangements in which the Austrian Supreme Audit Office plays an important role. It is strange that the original government proposal and its explanatory statement express themselves very marginally and reject it without further detailed analysis in view of the need to amend the Constitution and the Act on the SAO. However, it should be said that even such a variant would seem more acceptable than the creation of a new office and unnecessary growth in the administrative apparatus. So much for that one amendment. And otherwise, on the other hand, or on the next amendment, leaving the House with jurisdiction, that is the possibility of leaving the situation that is now, with the fact that the inspection committee seems to continue to exercise control, a brief justification. [[16.30 hours]] A reasoned report as one of the options of the solution also considers the option in which the function of the Chamber of Deputies is left to the supervisory authority. It may be agreed with the conclusions of the explanatory memorandum that it is not justified to require that it be given at the same time all authorisations belonging to the classical administrative authority. Nevertheless, it is possible for the Chamber of Deputies to supervise the management of political parties, albeit limited in scope, until an effective way of cooperation between the Chamber of Deputies and the administrations is prepared. The proposed amendment wants to remove the unnecessary creation of a new central administrative office, which will expand the administrative apparatus, although it is evident from the political practice of neighbouring states that similar measures are not necessary to effectively supervise political parties. The Chamber of Deputies retains the right of supervision and review of the annual reports. In view of the comments of the explanatory memorandum, it has been left unsolved by sanctions in breach of the law by a political party or movement. However, this problem can be quickly eliminated in the future after a constructive debate on how the mechanism can be set up. The proposed change will certainly not lead to deterioration compared to the current situation, while preventing the creation of a new, redundant administrative office. Last but not least, as the explanatory memorandum states, the proposed amendment will not entail any significant increase in the cost of the system's operation. It can be assumed that the House's administrative apparatus will need to be increased in the order of individuals. It must be pointed out that the Czech legislative regulation is designed in a rather complicated way and should be fundamentally simplified. That is all I wanted to do about my amendments, which I will then apply to in the context of a detailed debate. I've basically had reservations, and I've had reservations, and I've been consistently communicating here since the first reading, and it's not a change in my mind. I think the office is useless. And if the practice says that this system works in Austria, this system works in Germany, and Minister Dienstbier himself said on the microphone that German legislation is handled very well, then let us take from this German legislation the part that concerns the control of the German Parliament's management, namely the Bundestag. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u25	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Martin Lank is also enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly present the amendment of the Dawn Party to the National Coalition. This amendment regulates § 4, which defines the conditions for the creation and operation of the parties. This paragraph states that the activities cannot be carried out by parties who violate the Constitution and the laws, who want to eliminate the democratic foundations of the state or threaten the rights and freedoms of citizens. Of course, this is all perfectly fine and it is a necessary condition for the functioning of democracy. In our opinion, however, it is not okay that the definition of hate ideology is criminalized on the basis of these paragraphs. And, yes, I'm talking specifically about the definition of Islam. Islam is now more of a significant part of its adherents than a religion, rather a political ideology, an ideology that clearly suppresses human rights, tramples on equality between men and women, does not recognize the right to be without religion, permits humiliating and cruel punishments, does not allow the free will of a partner. I hope that we can agree that this does not belong in the European area. Yet there are opinions that trying to ban this destructive ideology is an incitement to hatred, to religion. We therefore want to establish once and for all that efforts to suppress Islam are allowed and that this cannot lead to a ban on the activities of a political party or movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u27	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. I ask first if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word after the general debate. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Mr. Home Secretary Milan Chovanec. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, very briefly. The debate has been going on for a very long time. It led in a coalition, led in committees, and we came to an opinion that is a compromise, and that is the creation of this small office. I'm also not in favour of creating new authorities for everything, but here I think there's only one reason for justification. If we want enforcement within the framework of this law and it is possible to impose a penalty, a penalty expressed by a fine in financial terms, neither the Chamber of Deputies nor the SAO's Supervisory Committee will be able, from our point of view, to impose these fines and subsequently enforce them as bodies which are not administrative in this matter. We are concerned that in this case, if this were to happen, the parties who would receive these fines and turn to the Czech courts would be able to suspend the fines. That is, if we accept the philosophy that the offence is to be followed by punishment, and the penalty is therefore a fine in financial terms, then there is no other way than this office from our point of view. In the debate, there were proposals that control should be independent, some activists, let's say, after the office is supposed to be much bigger. This is a compromise proposal. Again, I'm not a supporter of the new authorities, but here it is from my point of view. As far as the seat is concerned, Mrs President, Mrs Němcová has already spoken about this. There were suggestions on the committee that it should be based in Brno, Ústí. It is for these reasons that the committee has not united on where this seat should be. I suppose we'll have a debate about that. Well, that's just a brief summary of the debate. Of course, we will then decide by voting at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u29	Mr rapporteur, you are interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u30	Thank you. I am merely saying that there was no proposal in the general debate that we should vote on. And I would just like to correct the Minister's final words when he said yes, there was some consensus in the government coalition, and then there was a consensus in the committees, so the report from the Supervisory Committee shows that there was no consensus when the Supervisory Committee, as a guarantee, did not adopt the resolution. Three pros, zero cons, and seven abstentions, Minister. That was the conclusion of the review committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u31	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee if he is interested in the final word, let me welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of the Committee on Finance and Economic Development of the House of Members of Morocco. The delegation is headed by Chairman of the Committee, Mr Said Khairoun. Welcome. [[The MPs have risen and applauded.]] I am still asking the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee if he is interested in the final word after the general debate. It's not like that. I am opening the debate in detail. Mr Martin Plíšek will be the first to speak in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u32	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to apply to two amendments concerning banks' lending of political parties, as well as the removal of political institutes from the bill. Both amendments are deposited in the system under No. 4115 and I have both justified in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u33	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. And now Mr Jan Sedláček continues to speak. Mr. Jeroným Tejc will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to Amendment 569, House document 4496. The justification for this amendment is part of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u35	I thank Mr Sedláček. Now, colleague Tejc. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u36	Thank you for the floor. If the office is not established - and it will certainly be great news - then we will have to decide if it is established where it will be based, and I therefore propose and submit to the amendment under 4065 to replace the word "in Prague" in Section 19 by the word "in Brno." As I said, not only economic reasons lead me to do so, but also that if the office is to be independent, we have heard that several times, then perhaps it should not be based where most of the political parties have their headquarters. I think that Brno, as a city of justice, where logical courts will review decisions or that office, is the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u37	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Calm down, please! Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare my amendments, which I have put into the system under the numbers 4157, 4158, 4501 and 4502. The first amendment, 4157, concerns the amendment in Section 18, the limitation of the spectrum of possible donors of the political institute, as in the case of donors to political parties. Amendment 4158 refers to the absence of circumvention of the maximum permitted amount of the donation per party from one donor in one calendar year to 3 million. CZK, and a similar limit should be introduced for limits on donations to political institutes and commercial corporations. It therefore applies again to § 18. Amendment 4501 concerns essentially the abolition of the office and the transfer of powers to control the management of political parties and the movement to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, which I justified a while ago. Amendment 4502 is essentially the abolition of the Office and the retention of the powers of the Chamber of Deputies, in this case the Supervisory Committee. I have justified all these amendments in the general debate and I consider the justification sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u39	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u40	Thank you for the floor. My colleagues were quick, I have a little bit more, but I'll try to be brief, too, so we don't waste that much time. My first amendment is in the House system under the number 4132 and its content is that it prohibits the acceptance of gifts, respectively. to provide donations to those receiving state subsidies. The essence of this is that, on the one hand, a company that receives state subsidies extends its hand to the state budget and, on the other hand, issues it to political entities and cannot be separated. So if anyone wants to apply for subsidies, they must not sponsor and contribute donations to political parties. I hereby declare myself to the House press 43 (?). Short justification. The reason for this is a clear inquiry into state budget finance and greater transparency. The second amendment, which is under number 4408 in the House system, states that, if a political party or a political movement is established or the statutes are amended, these statutes, which are submitted for registration at the Ministry of the Interior, are signed by all the members, so that the founding association is sure that the statutes agreed upon and the political party is to operate on them are in line with the interests of the founders. Short justification. This is because there is a total guarantee for members who base this party on participation in the association they agreed upon. It is given, I confess, even by my personal experience that I have gained, so it is also for the purity of the political environment. I hereby report to the House of Press 4408. My next amendment, which is in the House system under the number 4409, says that if political entities merge or their demise, the original data remain in the register, so that they are further traceable and clear history. Reason. There are several reminders of this. I met the problem myself that I couldn't trace the information. I have also noted similar comments and criticisms from the Supervisory Committee that this is not being addressed. Basically, there is no record of the entity that goes down that way. It's about making history traceable. I therefore report to the House of Press 44009. We've done half of it. Another is the press, which is in the House system under number 4410 and says that if there are changes to the statutes of a political entity, either the party or the movement at the meeting, conference or assembly, the draft statutes submitted to the Ministry of the Interior must be signed by all members of the draft committee. I'm stressing the draft committee. This justification is essentially the same or similar as in the House's press 4408, the guarantee of a negotiated and ensuring the purity of the political environment. I therefore report to the Parliament's Press 4410. The fifth amendment is under number 4499, which extends the data contained in transparent accounts. In the draft law, this is because there is revenue and expenditure on political campaigns, and I am proposing that this be extended also to the normal operating expenditure of political actors, because I believe that there is a real possibility and concern that these amounts that will be spent on election campaigns will be assigned to operational expenditure, in time shifted so that these expenditures are hidden and dissolved over a longer period of time. I believe that this danger is quite real. The reasoning is simple - ensuring that the text is fulfilled and the ideas of the law that we are amending and setting the limits to avoid these transfers, which could distort the amounts spent on election campaigns. I hereby declare myself to the House of Press 4499. And we are at my last amendment, which is in the system under the number 4500, which says that the annual reports are also required to present those political entities that have ceased their activities either by dissolution or by merging with another political entity. The practice so far is that it is to appear in the annual report of the merged entity. The practice is, however, that these data, as I have found, cannot be traced there. This amendment of mine states that it clearly states that this obligation is for the period from 1 January to the date of termination of the original political entity. The reasoning is once again such that history is traceable if there is an interest in looking into the past of this entity, which has not so much ceased, as it merged with another entity. I hereby declare the amendment, which is in the system under the number 4500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u41	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. I shall make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 16.30 to the end of the date of the hearing and for days 2 and 3. 6. Apologizes Mr. Vojtěch Adam. Now, Mr Martin Lank, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u42	Thank you for the floor. I won't hold you up, just very briefly. I would like to sign up for the amendment that I have tabled here and which is introduced in the system under the number of House document 4412. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, so far the last one entered in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u44	Thank you for the floor. I want to present two amendments. The first, whose House Document number is 4503, concerns the payment of the State contribution to political parties. Nowadays it's backwards twice a year, which means once every six months. Thus, political parties must ensure operational funding for a period of six months, either from savings or from credit. I suggest it be four times a year, i.e. the need to secure operational funding would fall from six to three months, which is certainly a good thing. My second amendment is contained in the Houses of Document 4504. In it, I propose to return the state contribution for the mandate of both Members, Senators and regional representatives and representatives of the capital city of Prague to the original and long-term level used. The two House documents also contain reasons in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-014-016.u45	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I'm asking if there's any interest in the Minister's final words. It's not like that. The rapporteur? It's not like that. After the end of the detailed debate, I can say, and the rapporteurs are checking me that there was no proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee or to shorten the deadline for the third reading, and that it should not be dealt with by the guarantee committee. So I can end the second reading of point 16. We're good to go. According to the approved agenda, we have the item number
