ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u1	7. Government bill on central accounting / House printing 718/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you here that the establishment of a central register of accounts is, in particular, an essential element for the activities of law enforcement authorities and tax authorities in the long term, and yet unrealistic, to increase the efficiency of their activities. Its contribution to simplifying and accelerating the activities of these institutions as well as its importance in counter-terrorism measures is indisputable, and that is why this issue is very topical throughout the European Union. I hope that we have also explained enough in the committee meetings that the proposal prepared in cooperation with the Czech National Bank is minimalist and balanced, and there are no pitfalls that would mean limiting the protection of banking secrets or personal data. On the contrary, one of its benefits will also be to limit the possibility of leaking information from ongoing proceedings. The Committee on Budgets recommended for approval as a guarantee proposal. As the petitioner, I also agree with the proposal for the establishment of a supervisory authority and the extension of deadlines for the retention of information on requests and answers, as proposed by the Security and Constitutional Rights Committee in its resolutions. I would therefore like to ask you to support the proposal with these amendments during further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Security Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 718/1 to 718/5. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies will discuss in the second reading the Government's proposal for a new Act on Central Accounts Recording prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the Government resolution of March 2014, when the first Deputy Prime Minister for Economics and the Minister of Finance was ordered to establish a central account register. The operator would be the Czech National Bank, at the cost of the state. The Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed this bill. The Guarantee Committee recommends approving without comments, the Constitutional and Security Committee recommends approving the amendment concerning the extension of the powers of the Chamber of Deputies, which will monitor the provision of data from the central accounts through the Supervisory Authority. I recommend agreeing with the budget committee's resolution on this law on central accounting at second reading and releasing it by third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u5	Thank you, too. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Ivan Gabal, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, colleagues, let me introduce you to resolution 116 of the Security Committee of the 28th meeting held on 27 April 2016 on the Government Bill that we are discussing. Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening appearance of Deputy Minister of Finance JUDr. Alena Schillerová and following the report by the rapporteur, Ivan Gabal, and following the general and detailed debate, recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the draft law as amended by the following amendments. If you don't mind, I'm not going to read you the amendments in detail, I'm just going to introduce you to their point. During the first reading, the House noted that the law did not include any control of the process of accessing information to bank accounts, so that the amendment introduced the control into the system because, by virtue of the founder of the Czech National Bank, it is not obliged to carry out the control. In fact, the audit records and concerns the electronic record of all the requirements that the CNB receives from authorised persons. [[15.20 hours]] Secondly, the control is entrusted to the current Commission for wiretapping control, and it is all included as an amendment to the Security Committee, which is already in the system. Or, the main message is that the Security Committee, in addition to supporting the draft, also supported the introduction of a control system for accessing the central bank account register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I ask that Mr Marek Benda take the floor of the rapporteur of the constitutional committee and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. I do not see Mr Benda, so I will ask the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee chair's duty is to be vigilant and to represent the absent rapporteur, so at this point, allow me to represent my colleague Benda. The Constitutional Committee also adopted a resolution on this issue at its meeting on 28 April. We recommended The Chamber of Deputies will adopt this bill as amended by the amendments. You can find the print under the number of this print, 718. However, let me briefly justify the amendments that have been adopted. For one thing, we have proposed extending the five-year deadline to the ten-year period, i.e. the deadline for the retention of data requests, i.e. in order to be able to check back, for at least ten years, how these applications have been handled, and we have also adopted a new paragraph, or we propose adopting a new paragraph 11 - checking the provision of data from central account records, i.e. establish a control to be carried out by the Chamber of Deputies, which would set up a supervisory authority on this matter. It is not so much the case that we are setting up a new body of the Chamber of Deputies, but that we would include this power in a commission that is already working and dealing with, for example, today. the question of monitoring wiretaps. So it's more of an effort to accommodate those who are concerned about the abuse of this central registry. I am not afraid of this, but we have come out in a vote to strengthen this control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u9	I thank you and open a general debate to which I register an application. I shall therefore ask Mr Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u10	Once again, thank you, Mr Vice-President. As I have quite criticized in the last press the impotence of the Ministry of Finance, and that although it is to be a priority for my government, it takes them a year, so in this case I must commend the Ministry of Finance and Government that it will finally be a central register and that nothing will prevent it. The emergence of a control investigation or control group here in Parliament does not prevent anything. From my own practice, I know it's just for form anyway. So it will certainly make it easier for law enforcement authorities, and it is only good that this House is coming to a conclusion. I would like to thank the government for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u11	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance spoke here about the fact that the committee meeting succeeded in dispelling concerns about the fact that this Act on the establishment of central accounts can also be abused. Well, I am neither a member of the Committee on Budgets nor a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I am a member of the Sub-Committee on Banking and there was also Deputy Secretary Schillerová, there were other representatives, including the Director of the Financial Analysis Office. I think the bill on creating a central account log requires our attention. Any central registration of data can always be justified by lower costs, efficiency, time saving in the event of their legal use. Everything happens under the argument that, in fact, in the 21st century, this trend is completely natural and necessary. It is already less said that the constant desire to centralise data on natural and legal persons should also have limits of some proportionality in relation to the interests of the State, whose crossing leads us to absurd ubiquitous state control. At present, although I am not an expert on electronic systems, I believe that anything can be recorded and centralized through electronic systems. Therefore, we should be very careful about every further breakthrough of what the state records in one place. The government therefore proposes centralising the accounts of both natural and legal persons in the register, which will be managed by the Czech National Bank. Personally, I would have assumed that in such a case, the government would have carried out an up-to-date assessment of the effects of regulation of this standard, which should be preceded by the substantive intention of the law. Even what didn't happen. As I read in the explanatory memorandum, based on today's historical feasibility study, the methods of making the financial sector survey more effective from 2010 to 2011 on data from 2009 and part of 2010 were abandoned from the assessment of the impact of regulation on the originally considered substantive intention of the law. I consider this to be a mistake, because the final report has therefore been processed on the basis of today's many outdated and outdated analyses. I note that only, if I remember correctly, were data boxes launched in that year, and this novelty was evaluated in the analysis from the perspective of large financial institutions with a negative impact. The explanatory memorandum states that on the basis of the Government's resolution of 22 December 2014, the processing of the substantive intention of the law was abandoned and the final report was drawn up on the basis of the original materials of 2009 and 2010. I'll admit it's a bit of a special procedure for me on the side of the government. It says elsewhere that the legitimacy of this objective is given by the government's own resolution of December 2014. And when I go back to the 2010 analysis, it was actually considered to be the so-called 2010 analysis. a system of national accounting records, which should simplify access to bank data of all institutions which, pursuant to Section 38 of the Bank Act, have the power to break banking secrets in clearly defined cases. This applies both to law enforcement authorities, the Financial Analytical Service, and to courts for the purposes of civil law proceedings, but also to tax administrators, not just to the Financial Administration, i.e. social security authorities, health insurance companies, municipalities, labour offices or intelligence services. The current proposal for the creation of a central account register implies the narrowing of those authorised persons on the provision of data only to law enforcement authorities, the Financial Analytical Office, the Financial Administration, Customs Administration and intelligence services. That means, and I don't want to judge it, that, anyway, other authorities that are in charge of, say, tax matters or fee matters can't use data from the central account register. [[15.30 hours]] I was quite impressed, and it was already discussed here at first reading that the Czech National Bank will not be responsible for checking the eligibility of requests for data that will be sent to the special data box of the Czech National Bank for central account records. Even as I read in the explanatory memorandum, it was perhaps one of the agreed fundamental points in the preparation of this bill. When we look at the costs and economic benefits of the central account log, it is written in the explanatory memorandum that the costs of building the central account log system at the Czech National Bank are expected to be about 12 million. CZK and operating costs of the bank of between CZK 6 million and CZK 8 million. CZK a year. These costs will be refunded by the Czech National Bank from the chapter of the Ministry of Finance. The analysis data from 2009 shows that the overall costs incurred by the financial institutions for the replies of the authorised applicants were somewhere around 100 million. CZK and for eligible applicants, where they were able to monitor the cost of making and sending the request, amounted to about 18 million in 2009. Kč. However, the amendment to the Central Account Register Act narrows down, as I have indicated, the persons entitled to apply only to law enforcement authorities, intelligence agents and then the authorities of the Ministry of Finance, as if the other tax administrators were not here, but I do not want to comment on that. It follows that the potential economic effect on the part of both financial institutions and entitled persons will actually be limited because the beneficiaries will not be so much. Overall, a detailed calculation of savings and other benefits by introducing a central account log system, I must say that it has been disposed of, otherwise I cannot call it that it has only been made by a qualified estimate based on a study from 2010 and practical experience, since it is irrelevant with regard to the current government decision of December 2014. That's what it says in the explanatory note. So there's a qualified estimate here that the savings for the applicants will be about 10 miles. CZK and cost savings for credit institutions approximately 20 million. Kč. But mostly, if you look in detail at the explanatory report, increase the effectiveness of tax collection of 10 billion, again called. a qualified estimate. They are therefore only numbers for numbers that cannot be verified, nor do they come out of any responsible analysis, and it is therefore a question of whether this central account log is intended to serve again mainly one resort, which will have an overview of bank clients' accounts in a situation where the system administrator will not be held responsible for the eligibility of requests for data from the central registry. These are all very dangerous matters. And I assumed that there would be more amendments in the committees, at least there aren't many adopted. I agree that there is a need to set up at least some parliamentary control, because even the questions that were on the subcommittee have shown that only the staff of the Czech National Bank will carry out the checks as such, but there will be no system control. However, it is a question of whether this amendment is sufficient in relation to the potential difficulties that the Minister of Finance has mentioned, this misuse of these accounts or central accounting. You know, it starts only by registering an account number and, if necessary, the name or the name of a natural or legal person, the question is what happens next. And that's what I'm really worried about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-002-007.u13	I also thank you, and I ask who continues to report to the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I will ask the Minister and the rapporteur if she wishes to hear the final words after the general debate. It's not like that. I have no record of a motion to re-negotiate the committee, so we can continue with the debate in detail. No one is going to sign up for it either, so I will end the debate in detail and ask the final words now. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? They don't want to. And since we have nothing to vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Let's continue with point number
