ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (insolvency Act), as amended, and some other laws /house print 785/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I'm very sorry, only the Minister has the floor, no one else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you very briefly our prepared amendment to the insolvency law, which sets three main objectives. The first is to limit the possibility of bullying entrepreneurs by so-called bullying insolvency proposals. It's a practice that has spread quite a bit, plagues many of our entrepreneurs. It takes advantage of the fact that our computer system leads to the fact that immediately after the insolvency proceedings are filed, this proposal appears in Internet databases, which is somewhat principledly good, but here it is abused. This leads to a significant reputational risk for the company to which such a proposal was made, not to mention some other consequences of the type of impossibility to report to some tender. This abuse is that, through various purposefully founded, often offshore companies with white horses, proposals are made entirely fictional on the basis of imaginary claims against completely healthy companies and by the various other loopholes that these people have adopted, they manage to drag out the removal of these proposals by several months, and if one such proposal is resolved after much effort, another similar proposal is made. The amendment therefore proposes to a large extent to address this matter by allowing the judge to suspend the publication of the proposal for a week and in that week to assess whether it is not such a bullying proposal. There are other things that should also help. The second area then concerns the fight against insolvency mobs, where we have succeeded, we believe, to identify most of the currently used criminal schemes in insolvency proceedings using the expert group we have set up to do so, and we have a legislative response to these schemes, which means that we are closing the paths that this criminal practice has found. We're not entirely illusioned that these mobs will find other ways again, but I think it's a step more than necessary. At the same time, in order to make it difficult for the mob to operate in general, we are introducing several instruments, or we are proposing to introduce several instruments, which will increase our possibilities at all to detect unfair practices in insolvency proceedings and to prosecute unfair practices in insolvency proceedings. The third and last main issue dealt with in the proposal is debt relief, these are consumer insolvencys, small debtors, where by introducing a compulsory filing of this proposal through a lawyer or non-profit organisation approved by the Ministry of Justice, we are trying to push out of the market the so-called debt-deprived agency, which, on the one hand, are entities that do business black because they actually provide legal services without being lawyers and without being subject to appropriate regulation, and on the other hand, those services are often poor and especially very expensive. According to the research carried out, the price they charge is between 10 and 30,000, and there are cases where it is 50,000, and that is basically for filling out the form. [[11.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that some of the details of this law will still be the subject of an intense debate, in particular, or I suppose, in the constitutional committee. I'm sure there's still room for some adjustments, but overall, I believe that we need this law immensely. It is the fruit of a long work of a committee of experts drawn up for this purpose, so I ask that it be released for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Chvojka to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. He assessed it factually by the Minister, maybe I'll just repeat some things. It may be necessary to begin by saying that the expected deadline for the press to take effect on 1 September 2016 will certainly not be able to make it, that is a shame, but there is nothing to be done. I believe that this is not a cause for any political conflict, because the press regulates things that are useful regardless of how we view them as representatives of all parties. It certainly strengthens the press and wants to protect even more consistently the rights of creditors of insolvency proceedings. As the Minister said, there is a very significant strengthening of the supervisory powers of the Ministry of Justice over insolvency administrators. The possibility of such supervision has been, or still is, very limited until it becomes effective to the press. It will be possible if the insolvency administrator in any way violates its obligations or very significantly violates its obligation, so the Ministry of Justice will be able to take the right to exercise the insolvency administrator away from it. Surely the institute needs an even greater strengthening of the protective elements, which prevent the administration of so-called. insolvency proposals, the court will have the opportunity to make a preliminary assessment of whether there is any bullying proposal, and will not have to issue a decree for the insolvency register for seven days on the opening of insolvency proceedings. From my point of view and certainly from the point of view of the ČSSD, I really consider the most important point of view of the press the regulation of entities that provide debt services. Surely you all know and have seen various ads and flyers and billboards, when e.g. Company Insolvence s.r.o. or a natural person offers to file an insolvency claim for you and that the proposal will be successful and the court will comply with the debt waiver and confirm it. Of the 90 percent, this doesn't usually happen, because the proposals are written very amateur and wrong, and instead of the person who is in a very serious personal situation being in debt and having no money, somehow helped, these subjects will withdraw him from the last money he has left, and without any responsibility. So that's really something that's useful, and I'm giving her credit and welcome. Indeed, these debt relief services will be able, first, to provide only qualified persons, who are undoubtedly notaries, lawyers and insolvency administrators, and there will be a fee that they will be able to take for it, a maximum of four thousand plus VAT, if it is a proposal for joint debt management of spouses, a maximum of six thousand plus VAT, which I think is a very solid amount. Yes, it's true that the ones I was talking about, that is. Those companies that abuse it sometimes ask for five thousand, sometimes by ten thousand, sometimes by twenty and in the worst version even by fifty thousand, which unfortunately the debtor will throw out for nothing, and sometimes it is his last money, and rather the proposal that the debtor gets out of his difficult position and has been confirmed by the debt, so he gets even deeper and the court does not confirm the debt. Those are the so-called ones. qualified people, qualified entities who will be able to provide these services, i.e. once again: lawyer, notary, insolvency administrator. Furthermore, and I consider this to be correct, this option will be given to entities which will, of course, have to withstand accreditation from the Ministry of Justice, they will have to prove that they really understand the matter, and there will be an obligation to provide these services free of charge, which is a very significant step forward compared to today's situation. So it's a thing that wants to help people who are in a really difficult life situation. Perhaps I would just add that I am certainly on my own, and surely our entire parliamentary club will support the amendment by Antonín Sed, who would like these services to be provided by registered social service providers, because they already have a long-term experience of helping these people, whether they are people who live in excluded localities or people who simply live in excluded localities, but they have come into this very difficult life situation. So I support the proposal, I acknowledge, I believe that if the effectiveness of September 1st, 2016, is not achieved, at least since the New Year. That's where I think the odds are. I think that we are certainly still going to have a meeting on the Constitutional Legal Committee, which, in my opinion, should not be fundamentally long and fundamentally contradictory. I think that these things are for the benefit of the whole society and of all the people who are in this situation, regardless of who is on which side of the constitutional committee. So I expect that this discussion will not be substantially long and that the law will be effective from that date on January 1, 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his introductory words. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Vít Kaňkovský joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u6	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would follow up with some comments on both the Minister and the rapporteur, I think we will be meeting more or less. The Minister has presented the three basic areas with which this amendment comes, and the rapporteur has also mentioned them, and I would like to address the priority of the one area, and this concerns precisely the debt-debting companies. We all know that these debt relief societies are another form of parasitisation to the misfortune of some of our fellow citizens or families, and we can, of course, philosophize how many families or individuals have been in this situation by their own fault. Of course, some of you might say, and this is really an opinion that it's a majority, but I'm hearing opinions that if someone has done something in this area, let them figure it out for themselves. I don't think it's that simple. We can ask what would be the next step if we treated it this way. I think that chaining social pathological phenomena and other secondary consequences should be a memento for us and that it is really appropriate that we somehow treat these parasites in society. [[11.40 hours]] If I were to comment specifically on the proposed amendment. Overall, KDU-ČSL agrees with the substantive and legislative intention of this proposal and supports its referral to committees. I suppose, and it has already been said that the Guarantee Committee will be proposed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and it is appropriate. I myself will propose that it be referred to the Committee on Social Policy, because, in particular, the issue of insolvency and everything related to it is in very close connection with other social issues. So I think that the Social Policy Committee should also discuss this press. It is likely that some aspects of this bill will be discussed in the committees. I would like to highlight one here, and this is also in the context of the constitutional right of every citizen - a certain difficulty in the citizen's access to the court, by making the proposed changes impossible for him to file an insolvency proposal for himself, but only on behalf. This may be one of the problems we should be discussing. Furthermore, we have been discussing this for several weeks, and this has also been discussed here by the rapporteur, with representatives of the nonprofit sector, with the Association of Civil Advisory, with representatives of Charity of the Czech Republic, but also with other nonprofit organisations, and this is already the problem of social advice, plus the submission of insolvency proposals by civil councils. If we had adopted the bill as it is written now, we would have excluded these entities from the advice and, in particular, from filing insolvency proposals. Civic counseling in the form of social services provides the largest share of people in insolvency situations from the counseling itself to the preparation of their own proposal for debt relief. They provide this service free of charge, in high quality. It should be stressed that overdebting is not only a legal and economic problem, but it is, in large part, also a social problem. It is therefore a complex of problems with which civil counseling workers usually have great experience over the x years they have done it. The proposed amendment sets out a situation where social counseling could not write insolvency proposals for its clients in distress for the purpose of debt relief, even though they really have the greatest experience. It must also be said that these counselings have up to 90% success in preparing those insolvency proposals, respectively. The proposals prepared by them have up to 90% success then in court. And it must also be said that this social counseling and these civil counselings also contribute to ensuring that the courts are not overwhelmed by those basically invented or in some way poorly prepared proposals, which then overwhelm the courts and cause problems in carrying out their activities. That is why I would strongly advocate that we discuss the best form of the amendment in committee discussions. It has already been said that a Sed amendment has already been introduced in the system. Our club also has its amendment prepared, which addresses the situation and the filing of insolvency proposals. My colleague Seďa and I will not quite meet in a legislative factual way, but I believe that we will also find the best form in cooperation with the petitioner and just when we work in committees. And here I would also intercede, as would the rapporteur, to postpone some political primacy here, but to try to find a proposal that will really be the most acceptable in terms of practice. I cannot imagine a situation where we would not be able to offer free counseling and free preparation of an insolvency proposal to those of us who find ourselves in the most difficult situation in our lives. I'd consider it a very dangerous phenomenon. So we're proposing a referral to the committees for us. We would like the proposal to be referred to the Committee on Social Policy, which I will then propose. And I mostly intercede for a substantive discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u7	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. Another duly registered member is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. Unlike other proposals by Minister Pelikán, I can welcome here that, finally, after quite a delay, she arrived at the first reading of the amendment to the insolvency law. After the proposal has been interrupted several times in the Legislative Council of the Government and corrected there, we have received a text which we can certainly talk about in committees, in the constitutional committee or in other committees, because the objectives it sets, such as preventing bullying insolvency proposals, improving and refinement of expert advice on debt relief or the provisions they want to combat the insolvency mafia, are certainly not about the division between the coalition and the opposition, the right and the left, etc. So it is good that this proposal has finally come here and that we can then devote ourselves to it in committees. I will mention here at first reading only some of the reservations concerning the position of creditors, and soon I will mention passages which, in my opinion, harm or weaken creditors. And unfortunately, it is already a trend that we see in some other proposals from the Ministry of Justice. I will present earlier ideas on debt forgiveness to multiple debtors or currently proposals for a significant reduction in the executor's remuneration, which, in my view, will lead to less enforcement of the law, weaken creditors and favour debtors. I would therefore like to mention in this law an adjustment on the basis of which a creditor - a legal person - must, when submitting an insolvency application, provide evidence of his claim by written recognition of the debtor with a certified signature or enforceable judicial or notarial decision or confirmation by the auditor that the creditor charges for the claim. In my opinion, these requirements are completely disproportionate, in practice difficult to meet and mean weakening the position of creditors. The aim of this adjustment was to prevent bullying insolvency proposals, but the provision in question will in no way lead to this objective being met in practice. In addition, the proposal contains other and much better measures to prevent or at least minimise the harmful impact of bullying proposals. I find it really pointless to want a creditor to document the claim by giving the debtor a written recognition, plus with a certified signature. Similarly, the requirement to document the claim by an enforceable decision, in particular by a court judgment which appears to be most impractical. Then I also do not understand the requirement to prove the claim in the accounts. In practice, such an alert does not demonstrate anything about the nature of the meaning or legitimacy of the claim. So not only these questions that I have mentioned here should be dealt with by a guarantee constitutional law committee. And I expect to improve this proposal on board. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u9	I thank Mr Plíšek. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this proposal tabled, because it is another pebble in the mosaic in which we are trying to help people who are in a difficult situation. I would like to focus on the very area of the person who gets into a difficult situation and needs debt. According to the amendment, the proposal can be written and filed by a lawyer, notary, insolvency administrator or so-called. an accredited person. As far as accredited legal entities are concerned, according to the proposal, they will receive accreditation from the Ministry under the conditions laid down by law and will have to provide services free of charge. [[11.50 hours]] The law says it can be a community service. Public utility within the meaning of the new Civil Code is one of the conditions for granting accreditation. At this point, the proposal does not count on the organisation having to have a public utility status. I believe that the Act on Public Benefits has not yet been adopted and this will need to be clarified in some way in the law. Nonprofit organizations will have to process proposals for debt relief free of charge. So let's ask ourselves who's going to pay for it. Even nonprofit organizations, community service organizations, have employees they need to pay. So here, I think we're gonna need to figure this out if they're gonna provide it for free, who's gonna fund this community service organization. There are a number of things that need to be clarified in the law. I am happy to participate in the legislative process, and I recommend that we move this law forward to further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u11	I thank Mr Kudel, who has so far been the last duly enrolled in the general debate. And Mr. Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, although the Committee on Budgets is not the one who is the guarantee committee on this matter, I would like to take a few words on this bill, which is another law to prevent business with odds and which is to fight poverty, etc. It's easy! Stop the executions! A chance for a new life. With such promises, various financial "advisors" and private firms turn to debtors to whom they offer personal bankruptcy as a saving solution to their financial problems. However, it is no exception that these entities are only trying to make money on people in need and, as a result, of course, they are even more indebted. The situation could help us deal with the proposed amendment to the insolvency law, which is presented by the Ministry of Justice and which we are also discussing. If the amendment passes in the proposed text, proposals for personal bankruptcy could only be submitted by notaries, lawyers, insolvency administrators and accredited publicly beneficial companies. It would therefore end in a practice where people and companies perform this activity without sufficient qualifications. But this is not the only important change. The amendment also sets the maximum amount that can be charged to the debtor for submitting the proposal, namely CZK 5 000, and in the event of the debting of the spouses it is CZK 7 500. In addition to non-profit organizations that have already produced insolvency proposals free of charge, a regulated environment with clear rules would be created. It would therefore end in loan-making practice, where debt-debting companies abuse the burdensome situation of debtors and have their aggregate sums paid, on average CZK 15,000 for the insolvency proposal. By combining "immoral practice," I do not mean merely that these are high sums. In practice, we are normally confronted with the advice of debt-debting firms to borrowers to borrow a loan to file a personal bankruptcy, but they should not worry about its repayment because they will apply for personal bankruptcy immediately afterwards. However, by doing so, the debtor is guided, on the one hand, to the crime and, on the other hand, to the detriment of the creditor, which he usually does not know at all. As debt-deprived companies live on debtors, they pay a direct consideration: the more, the better. The logical consequence of the situation where firms and private advisors are motivated by the financial reward for drafting a proposal is that personal bankruptcy is offered to people who do not meet the criteria for its declaration, and therefore the debt waiver will not allow them to do so. However, companies usually do not mention the possibility of rejection. And when that happens in practice, the borrowers are also waiting for an unpleasant surprise - usually they get into bankruptcy and they can lose all their assets in it. Getting into a debt trap is easier than many of us can imagine, and there are thousands of companies on the market capable of taking advantage of this situation. It is therefore crucial for the State to lay down rules that limit poverty business to the maximum. And the upcoming amendment to the insolvency law, virtually. Today's amendment, which we are discussing, is also one of the tools to get closer to this state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u13	I thank Mr Votav. Another duly logged in... Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u14	Thank you for the floor. Again, I have to respond to the Minister, because I have nothing against this bill, but the philosophy that is rushing this hall, consisting of saying, for example, Mr Votava, that it is a law that will prevent poverty and so on. I think it's a total illusion. It's the election of votes again. I quoted here a few days ago because Andrej Babiš, Tomáš Baťa, was here. And I'm gonna repeat that quote, and I'm gonna keep telling you that, and it's gonna come in handy here, under this law. He literally said: Bankruptcy is a matter of moral opinion. I have to comment on his life. Tomáš Baťa first company, written on his brother, went bankrupt. And now a description of Tomáš Baťa: We took credit, we had some machines and we sat in pubs, because we felt like we were gentlemen. Then there was bankruptcy, which means the bills had to be paid. And Baťa literally writes that the most important thing was the preservation of his name. And that's why he decided not to sleep, eat, and work. And where did he go after that, we know. But there was no bankruptcy. Either we raise Tomáš Baťa in this nation, or we raise people who are constantly borrowing. Then the state or this House will be saddened, and they will always be saved somehow. But it's a completely uneducated method! I understand it's working today. But the educational impact on this nation is terrible. And let me say one more quote from Tomáš Baťa about this misery, which I also agree with. He, now I may not say it exactly, but he said about this: The causes of poverty are in the hearts of men. Beautiful way of putting it. No state, no business and all that, but it's in the hearts of men. It's either work or it's not work. If they work badly, yes, they may be bankrupt, but it's part of economic life. Personally, I also feel sorry for a lot of people who get into trouble by their own fault. But these people will always be enough, no law can stop it. And again, rather than always saving those who often - and I am sorry - deserve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u15	I thank Mr Blažek. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to my colleague Blažek through you, Mr Vice-President. He's putting something in my mouth that I didn't say. I, my colleague, did not say that it would eliminate poverty! Although I think that in the Czech Republic it is not so terrible with poverty and poverty. But of course he can't eliminate misery. I wanted to say that this is the fight against poverty and the plight of people who are being abused by a number of people, companies that offer indecent acts debt to those people. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u17	Mr Kudela - I apologize, he is duly registered. Then Mr Blažek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u18	Hello. I do not want to start a debate, but I also have to respond to Mr Blažek. There's no way we're letting anyone feed on a human problem. You can't process your own insolvency proposal. He will use some service to make the service even more beggar, to get him into even more trouble. We can't let that happen. That is why I am in favour of adopting this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u19	I thank Mr Kudel. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u20	To Mr Kudel through you. What the world stands for has always been earned by human stupidity. We can't stop it. This debate is useless. And I would like to thank Mr Votav, because I also do not think that we live in a state and at a time when there are many people suffering from poverty. I often hear that description again because of voter voices. But please read about how people lived a hundred years ago, maybe 60 years ago, and let's talk about some misery today. It's not. It's an objective picture of the reality that it is. Yes, people are poorer and richer. That's what the world's always been like. But I thank Mr Votav, and take it from me as reconciliation, by your means, for this statement I thank you, especially when the Social Democrat says it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u21	Thank you for thanking me through this. Yes. This has so far been signed up for the general debate by the last Member. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. I am not reporting, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the Minister's final words. [[Yes.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u22	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. I just want to say that I am pleased with the debate here, because it fills me with optimism, and I look forward to working on the committees. It seems to me that there is a really wide understanding of our intentions. At the same time, I only ask that we actually cooperate and listen to each other in the committees. Even in the Legislative Council, we have not changed much; rather, it took us longer than we managed to explain some things to the Legislative Council why we have them there, as we have them there. That's a typical example of the bookkeeping card. This is an important measure against bullying proposals, because if someone has something in their accounts, it also means that they had to tax it, and in addition, accounting is done chronologically, which means they can't invent an old claim today. So it's something that comes from observing how bullying works, and from that, those people who see it every day in practice, they say, this could help. That was just an example where I think that if we explain things well in committee work, there might be less of these changes than we expect at this point. And the last thing I'm asking is that we don't have a debate in this connection about whether or not there should be more or less delays. I promise you that I will bring another amendment to the Insolvency Act to the House in a few months, I hope, and it will be about whether there should be more or less debt, so let's save the debate for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Minister. Still the rapporteur with his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u24	I'm a little more general and wider. The insolvency law was adopted in 2006, effective from the next year, and it was then that it introduced the most important novelty of the debt institution. I think it's a very useful institute. And it's not whether we owe more or less, but the institute has parameters that weren't here before. In the past, when the debtor was up to his neck in debt, he never paid anything because he was wearing several executions, several tens, or even more and had virtually no real opportunity to get rid of debts for the rest of his life and somehow to get out of it and become a real person in some way in the future who would be without debts. Debt is a good institution. I think that he deserves some other parameters, which may have been mentioned by the Minister that they will be in a larger amendment, because today it is basically five years, 30 percent of the outstanding amount has to be repaid. Maybe let's discuss whether, if the creditor agrees to this, it should not be divided into more years or with the consent of the creditor to less percentage, not 30%, but even 25%. But it's a useful thing, because if there wasn't a debt institution, the debtors wouldn't have paid anything anyway. That way, they'll pay at least 30 percent. And let's not ask people who, unfortunately, and sometimes by their own faults, take - and it has to do with the consumer credit. Whoever took too much consumer credit and didn't pay, then ended up in insolvency. So they're kind of continuous containers. But let's not want people who actually have their own faults getting into a couple of different companies to walk around the sewers, have no place to sleep, and become homeless. It's just that the debt institution is very good, and I know from my own practice that it has helped a lot of people. And I appreciate that it was actually the government of social democracy that passed the insolvency law and in it the debt institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u25	Thank you, too. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. Before we proceed to the vote, I'm registering your application for withdrawal. So I'm going to check you out and apply for re-engagement. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution: Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 389, registered 135 Members and Members, for proposal 132, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. Mr. Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u26	Hello. I would suggest, as I have already announced in the debate, a committee on social policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-004-040.u27	I wonder if anyone else still has a proposal for the commandment of this press. It's not like that. In that case, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the Social Policy Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 390, registered 139 Members and Members, for proposal 101, against 23. I also note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you, I am closing this item and opening another item on today's agenda, and that is
