ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u1	27. Government draft atomic law / House print 560/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Government's proposal for an atomic law. This law brings a comprehensive new regulation of the peaceful use of nuclear energy and ionising radiation and is intended to replace the existing Act No. 18/1997 Coll., on the peaceful use of nuclear energy and ionising radiation and on the amendment and addition of certain laws. The reason for the adoption of new legislation is the need to adapt Czech law to current requirements in international law. At the same time, the fundamental new regulations of the European Atomic Energy Community must be transposed into the Czech legal system. Last but not least, the new law is intended to overcome both the substantive and legislative technical obsolescence of current legislation. All changes compared to existing legislation have as a general objective the strengthening of public protection against potentially hazardous activities through the precise determination of the obligations of the persons carrying out those activities. The guarantee economic committee discussed the draft law and proposed its approval with amendments of a legislative technical nature governing certain additional shortcomings of the proposed regulation. The petitioner agrees with these proposals. The Environment Committee has proposed the approval of a law with amendments in the field of radioactive waste management and the provision of contributions to municipalities that may be affected by the deep-sea radioactive waste repository. The petitioner has a neutral opinion on these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u3	Thank you, Minister. One more apology. Mr Petr Adam apologizes from 19.15 hours for work reasons. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as press 560/1-4. So, please, step by step, the individual rapporteurs. First of all, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Milan Urban. Please inform us of the committee's discussion of the proposal and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already announced this, or commented on how this proposal was discussed in the Economic Committee, so I will limit myself, given the time, only to introduce you to the Economic Committee's resolution. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament after hearing the introductory words of the President of the State Nuclear Safety Office, Dana Milan Urban's report, and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the House of Parliament discuss and approve the House Press 560, as amended by the approved amendments. 1. In Part Two, Title IV, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: 4 dot shall be replaced by a comma and the following shall be added: (p) which reads: verification of the financial cover card. 2. In Part Two, Title VI of Part 2 § 138, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 'radioactive substances with low dispersion and sources of ionising radiation' is replaced by 'and radioactive substances with low dispersion'. 3. In Part Two, Title VI, Part Two, § 139, paragraph 2. 2 the words "for transport which requires authorisation under § 9 para. 4', deleted. 4. In Part Four, Title II, Section 215, the heading is replaced by the following: (a) the words "public supply" shall be replaced by the words "public need." II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. III. He instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee. IV. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, who is Mr Jan Zahradník. Mr Zahradníček, Mr Klán, will be prepared instead. Yes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Committee on the Environment at its 29th meeting on 4 February 2016 on the Government's draft atomic law, House Press 560. After the reasons given by the President of the State Nuclear Safety Authority . Dana Drábová, D, report by Mr Jan Zahradník and after the debate by the Committee on the Environment I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. These are the following: 1. In Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 2 the words "to future generations" shall be replaced by the 2. In Section 108, the following paragraph 4 is inserted: (4) Procedure for establishing the exploratory territory for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas, the procedure for establishing the protected territory for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas, the procedure for authorising the operation of radioactive waste storage and the procedure for ensuring respect for the interest of the municipalities to which the contribution from the nuclear account belongs pursuant to § 117 para. 1, and their citizens in these processes, lay down a special law. 3. In Article 113, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is deleted... In Article 117, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 3 is deleted. paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be referred to as paragraphs 3 and 4. Paragraph 117 (4) reads: (4) Each municipality in whose cadastral territory a protected area for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas has been established shall receive a one-off contribution from a nuclear account of CZK 50 million. In the calendar year in which a one-off contribution was granted to the municipality, the contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be granted. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). II. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. III. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. IV. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. vážený President, the Committee on the Environment also adopted a further resolution on this proposal, the House of Press 560, on a proposal from Mr . Michal Kučera. On this proposal and following the debate, the Committee calls on the Ministry of Industry and Trade to submit a separate law that will address strengthening the involvement of municipalities in decision-making in the process of selecting deep storage by the end of 2016. So much for the report on the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Please, Mr Klán, who will inform us about the negotiations of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development for this absent Member, Josef Zahradníček. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 36th meeting after Ing's statement of reasons. Danou Drábová, ., President of the State Office for Nuclear Safety, following the report by Mr Josef Zahradníček and following the debate, adopted a resolution recommending the House Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u9	Thank you, too. I'm opening the debate. With priority rights for TOP 09, Mr Kučera. And I'll apologize to Mrs. Golasowská from 7:00 p.m. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u10	Hello, and thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today's amendment to the atomic law, which is a rather complex amendment that really interferes with many areas of peaceful use of nuclear energy and ionising radiation. It covers all areas from nuclear safety to measures to control and respect the ban on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Despite the number of amendments to the atomic law in its use, it turns out that there is a need for an amendment. These reasons are both in the use of nuclear energy or ionising radiation in the production of electricity, application in medicine, industrial application and, of course, in the reduction of the risk of misuse of nuclear materials, respectively. nuclear weapons. As I have already said, the amendment to the law is quite extensive and a little bit fits in it one moment, a moment which is very troubled by our communities, and this is the search for a location for so called. deep storage of nuclear waste. We are currently monitoring the course of this selection, which has a relatively serious impact on the sites in that it brings uncertainty into the mentioned sites. The process is quite long. According to the information from the office that makes the selection, it is said that it is not pushed through time to proceed to the shortest possible selection. And in the meantime, these communities really live in uncertainty. This uncertainty does not only stem from the fact that it does not know whether a nuclear repository will be built or not, but, of course, it has an impact on a particular life in a given community, especially in that it is there for example. can devalue investment in real estate, because real estate prices there can, of course, fall for this reason -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u11	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u12	- that it is unclear whether or not there will be a deep storage site. At this point, I am not talking about whether or not the deep storage is, and whether or not it is in the village concerned. I'm more of a judge of the process right now. That the location of the deep storage will have a lasting impact on the selected location, I think that is clear to all of us. The process of selecting the site is such a non-standard and uniquely long-term process that the interest of municipalities in the selection process should be clearly declared. One of the problems we can discuss here is the fact that the legislation does not provide for a requirement from the municipalities concerned at a certain stage of the selection process of the appropriate site to agree with the intention of placing the repository in the site. As I said before, it brings the uncertainty to individual communities. I do not really mean the situation where the citizens concerned are determined to have the repository there or not, but the process itself, which is rather complex and too long for many. I would like to say that the strengthening of the role of municipalities should take place for the first time at a stage in which up to two of the most favourable sites from the originally six sites under consideration will be evaluated on the basis of the geological surveys carried out. This is in the phase before the opening of the procedure for the establishment of a protected area for special intervention in the country. And the question is whether it's enough or not. In a debate that took place in particular on the Committee on the Environment, I think, quite qualifiedly and with the help of President Drábová, I was prepared to make an amendment that would just allow municipalities sufficient opportunities to participate in the process of selecting a deep storage. The amendment was prepared, I think it was in good condition that it could be implemented into this atomic law. However, at that moment I also heard quite rational arguments from the Office for Nuclear Safety and representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I did not present the amendment at that time. The reason is that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has promised to address this situation by a separate law, which would just strengthen the possibilities of involving municipalities in the process of selecting deep storage. I think this procedure is cleaner than implementing the atomic law, which, as I said here at the beginning, is quite complex, complicated, and the shot is on several hundred pages, so I think a separate law will be more appropriate. Mr Zahradník, rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, has already informed you of this resolution, which has been passed in committee and which is more or less requested by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to present a separate law that will address strengthening the involvement of municipalities in the decision-making process in the selection of deep storage by the end of 2016. It is more or less a confirmation of the state, which according to representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is already, i.e. If the information sounded right there, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is already preparing a law that should address this situation. And I think it would be good if we then adopted this accompanying resolution in the third reading, so that the House's efforts to address precisely this situation with the choice of a deep storage and, at the same time, to strengthen the involvement of municipalities in the decision-making process can be clearly seen. So that is everything on my part at the moment, and then at third reading, we could continue to address the motion for a resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another in the general debate is Mr Zemek, who will be prepared by Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u14	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not originally intend to perform when this amendment came to the House. However, I must admit that I have been misbehaved - and I say this with pride because those lobbying were representatives of scientists, representatives of museums, representatives of universities, to which this amendment quite a lot touches. I'll start by saying I don't want to question the law as a whole. Not at all. I do not want to question the expert erudition of the State Nuclear Safety Authority headed by Mrs Drábová. However, we are exposed to a certain - as I would say in a cunningly - conservative approach to nuclear protection, and unfortunately it affects a much larger group of people and a much larger group of people than we think. [[19.30 hours]] Based on negotiations with those representatives, among other things it was Charles University, Faculty of Science, Czech Technical University, Czech Geological Service and others, we found that they were not even invited to the preparation. The SÚJB was actually the main person who prepared the law or the amendment. And unfortunately, if he failed or did not want to invite, these institutions, which are directly affected by this amendment, were simply not invited into the meeting. We didn't find out until the hearing. I've arranged for a hearing with the Economic Committee to be held. It has resulted in several amendments tabled, which are more or less prepared by these institutions, and which I will then explain in detail in the detailed debate where I will sign up to them. As I said, and the amendment as a whole, of course, I do not want to question anything, but certain minor changes would be appropriate to facilitate the work of institutions such as universities and geologists and so on. You know, I have this particular case in how it affects these institutions. According to the novel, for example, when a scientist takes a stone from an old uranium heap, he's already committing an offence. But on the other hand, the State Office for Nuclear Safety doesn't mind cases of the type where Jablonec built a neighborhood of residential buildings directly on the outpost of an uranium vein. The residents there are hit by heavy radiation, and no one cared. So in this example, I'm showing you the issue of the State Nuclear Safety Authority's view. Though their intentions are good, I have no doubt that they are not. They too must abide by international treaties. For example, the Czech Republic is bound by the Nuclear Non-proliferation Convention. But in some cases, unfortunately, we are more papal than the Pope, and I will try to alleviate that in my amendments. If I wanted to lighten it up a bit, then if the Austro-Hungarian government had acted as strictly as SUJB, then probably Marie Sklodowská-Curie would never have found radiation with her husband. At this point, I thank you for your attention and in a detailed debate, I will clarify the substance of my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u15	I ask Mr Zahradník and Mr Klán will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the atomic law, as I have come to know it, has, in my view, three such fundamental issues. First of all, it separates the existing law, which applies, the public aspect of the whole thing, the private relations, the possible compensation for damage to a nuclear accident, and it leaves those other things to the old one. I didn't want to deal with that. I think the way it is, it's gonna be okay. Another problematic point was mentioned by colleague Zemek. It is actually a point, but it is a place, a problem that is solved in a comprehensive House of Press 560, which has about 800 pages, underlaw standards. These are the different limits which the law actually intends to introduce and which ministries will then apply through decrees or some other sub-legal norms. These limits are sometimes such that they complicate the handling of radioactive material so much that basically some institutions will still deal with an extraordinary radioactive event in any activity. Since I am convinced that these things are being dealt with under the law, I did not want to deal with this and I did not want to put changes in the same spirit. Then there is the third, already mentioned problematic area, and that is the question of storing radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. I have carefully thought about this, and I have also been meeting with the mayors of the municipalities in the vicinity of which the mentioned sites are for the establishment of a zone for possible future disposal of waste. I've learned that opinions about it are variable, to some extent. From a prior refusal to even the possibility of doing the survey to a more or less positive approach to conducting the survey. Some municipalities are so crucial in their refusal position that they even return the contribution they are legally required to receive from the State. The question of defining the deep storage of nuclear waste, in my view, is absolutely essential given that it is as defined in Section 106 of the Act on the storage and location of the waste in the area without any intention to remove the existing waste. We need to notice the word "no intention." We would like our decision to influence the intention of our followers to deal with the material that we now consider nuclear waste. I do not know to what extent we can exercise the right to influence this intention. After those generations, they will have some way of thinking and access to the stored material and their intention in no way will we influence in future time. However, this question is a question not of years, not of decades or centuries, but of thousands and tens of thousands of years, as are the half-lifes of individual nuclear materials. Moreover, what we consider today to be nuclear waste, which we want to impose without intent to remove it, can certainly be a body for reworking, for converting into valuable nuclear fuel or for some valuable radioactive material. However, since I am a supporter of nuclear energy to the body and soul, and I am aware that if we want to support nuclear energy here as an important part of our energy mix, we must address the very idea of such a storage here in our country to support, promote and establish. So I did not intervene here in Section 106, I left it as it is, and I focused on what impact it might have on the process of establishing the territory for future storage for those who will then be personally involved, that is for citizens, the inhabitants of those territories, and for their municipal authorities, which are responsible for the development of the territory. This concerns § 108 in our law. I have approved my amendments, which I have formulated for this purpose, in the Committee on the Environment, which adopted them, and which was recently tabled as proposals directly by the Committees. Paragraph 108 shall contain the following elements: 2, which says that radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel can only be treated in such a way that, as it was in the original proposal, future generations are not caused by an disproportionate social, technical and economic burden. Future generations are always the ones that will ever be in the future. So I think we need to think about current generations, so in my first proposal, the word "current" is added. Secondly, the State Office for Nuclear Safety argued that a law-making process is under way to regulate, establish procedures and organise the participation of municipalities in the process of finding this repository. I was worried, I confess, that, after the approval of this law, this intention would not diminish, and so I suggested that Paragraph 108 be proposed. 4 which is currently talking about the specific law governing the procedure for determining the research territory for the disposal of waste, the procedure for authorising the operation of storage facilities, the procedure for ensuring respect for the interests of municipalities and their citizens. That is, if we approve it this way, it will be an obligation to bring forward the law, which Mr Kučera then actually also defined in his motion for a resolution accompanying our committee resolution, the obligation to present the law here will be laid down. [[19.40 hours]] And I finally focused on the material things that belong to the municipalities if they get to the list of potential sites, the so-called protected areas where the repository could grow up, or rather than grow up being dug into the country, so I've been dealing with financial claims here. A contribution from a nuclear account belongs to the community where the research area is determined. This defines § 117. This contribution was limited by an annual amount of not more than CZK 4 million 500 thousand. Since, according to my information, the process takes place in such a way that, on the one hand, a flat-rate proportion of the contribution is determined and then the second part of the contribution is calculated for each meter in the village's cadastral infiltrating the area for future storage, and the second part of the contribution is rarely higher than CZK 5 million. Then I simply suggested that the limit be removed from the law, so that the municipalities would get what really belongs to them according to the methodology. And finally, for the last time. In paragraph 4 of § 117, the amount belonging to the municipality, in whose territory the protected territory will be determined directly, was originally determined, so it should receive a one-off contribution of CZK 30 million according to the original proposal. In fact, I have not been able to obtain information from anyone about how the petitioner reached this amount of 30 million crowns. It seemed to me that it was an estimated amount, and I took the liberty of reaching out to the committee with a proposal that this amount be set at CZK 50 million, which was approved by the committee, and we will also be discussing these proposals at third reading. Which, in fact, I think I have also fulfilled the obligation to justify the Committee's amendment here at plenary at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Klán, Mr Kučera's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Zahradník. And to his words, it was with the intention of removing the nuclear waste. I think that this is precisely the crucial thing that really gives it the dimension of certainty for the community, whether it will ever be handled further in the future, or if it will actually be permanently stored there. Because, of course, I understand, I understand what the half-life is, what boundaries we're talking about here, but of course, that sometime in the future, and the future really doesn't have to be in thousands of years, it could be decades, that they'd consider removing the waste and driving it somewhere to rework, it would completely change the view of the deep storage. I think it would also change the view of the process of deciding whether or not to set up the deep storage there. Because the idea that the material will be treated twice means that it will be picked up there first, then it will be stored there somewhere and then it will be removed again and transported somewhere else, so I think it would make the situation and the willingness of the municipalities, which is now quite small, the willingness of the municipalities to have such a type of storage on their cadaster. So what I'm thinking is that the option that was left there today, and I'm glad that a fellow Zahradník joined it, too, is the right option. Of course, what will happen in a thousand years, I don't think we or the future Houses of this century have to deal with that anymore. So I think it's right that we've agreed to keep this view that I've been talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u19	There is still a factual point, Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u20	Mr President, I hope, too, and Minister and rapporteur, I also hope that it will be that, therefore, if we really decide that it will be somehow definitive. The question will be whether the tenure will remain in the awareness of future generations. Because a colleague named Kučera has mentioned a thousand years. In a thousand years, none of us can imagine the social system and the governance of society here in our state, in Europe, will be in the world. But the material will still be alive, it will still decompose, work and be dangerous in some way. I just want to give an example that we were dealing with here two years ago and which is again medialy attractive today and attracts interest, and so it is the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice-Vlachovice. When guns and ammo were put in there, everyone thought we'd make a great lookout, that'd be great, that'd be covered by a fence, there'd be cameras, there'd be spotlights. But then some camera stopped working, the spotlight, somebody made a hole in the fence, then somebody robbed it, then somebody there - I don't know what happened to it. The truth is, it kind of blew up and caused a lot of trouble. And that was, I don't know, how many, not ten years ago, it didn't keep it so aware that it wouldn't cause these problems. The awareness here will have to be tens, hundreds, thousands of years. Let's also think about that in some legacy of such significant things, so that it doesn't happen that it's some forgotten thing that's going to happen, that something's going to be there, maybe in a few decades, hundreds of years, but then it's only someone who really learns and evaluates that what's there could be important to him for some hard-to-predict reasons that he doesn't take it out, take it out, and somehow use it with evil intent. We just have to think about this, too. I intercede to be aware, not directly by legal dictum, but in awareness, that's what we keep thinking. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u21	Thank you. Mr Klán will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u22	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me make a brief statement on House Press 560, the atomic law. My previous speakers have been dealing with a lot of problems here, and I might have a little bit of a say in that, but I'm not gonna keep it here. So I will specifically focus on the position of municipalities around our two nuclear power plants, namely Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant and Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. I will present to you here an amendment which, of course, is conducted in the system, put it there by Mr Zahradníček Member, but it is absent, so I was asked to bring it a little closer to you here. In some ways, the amendment reflects the position of municipalities around these two nuclear power plants. In Section 117, at the end of paragraph 1, the dot would be replaced by a comma and the following point (d) shall be added: the designated zone for emergency planning of a nuclear installation. Second, Paragraph 117 would be inserted as follows: The Administration grants a contribution to the development of municipalities where a nuclear accident planning zone is set up. This contribution is provided annually in the amount of CZK 200 million to the nuclear accident planning zones of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant and the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant for the duration of the nuclear accident planning zone. Paragraph 5 shall become paragraph 6. [[19.50 hours]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth (c) the rules for the grant of the contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall read as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Fourthly, in Section 238, supplement the repeal of the existing Atomic Act No. 18/1997 Coll. as amended. A brief statement of reasons. The total amount of the contribution I was talking about for municipalities in nuclear accident planning zones is to support the project for the development of the municipalities concerned. It is an allocation of funds from the so-called nuclear account to municipalities in the five- and twenty-mile zone of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant and in the five- and thirteen-mile zone of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant for a total of CZK 200 million. For this purpose, it is proposed to use the wording of § 117 of the draft atomic law, the House's press 560 when in paragraph 1. 1 Paragraph 117 would be supplemented by new words after point (c), as I have already said. The compensation for the municipality concerned in the region is proposed. There is a large population in the municipalities where the disaster planning zone of the nuclear facility is announced. It is used similarly to, for example, in Slovakia and Spain, the principle of compensation to the municipalities concerned as a result of the setting of the emergency planning zone, as already mentioned above. Of course, I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Finally, I'm going to say that if the radioactive waste is stored for thousands of years - I once studied electrical engineering - we discussed it many years ago - I believe that there will be some technology over the years that will certainly process this waste again so that it is no longer dangerous. But it's necessary to secure the storage for the time that the technology is discovered or invented. I also firmly believe that we will come up with thermonuclear energy, where almost no radioactive waste will come from it, and our civilization will continue to flourish further in technology and progress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u23	Thank you, too. Furthermore, I do not have an application for a general debate, which is why I am ending it. I will ask the Minister for the final word after the general debate. He wishes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to confirm the determination of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to prepare a special law to address the issue of nuclear storage. It really wouldn't be good to burden the atomic law. I would also like to stress that if a nuclear repository is built in our country, it will only be possible for the respective municipalities to agree. I can't imagine without them. And I think it would be solvable. At present, however, we are faced with an attempt to delay the selection of the repository, including by delaying the geological survey, only to claim and hold the hostages of seven municipalities, when the real negotiation of the permit of a building will take place only at two locations, because until the last moment one backup will be held. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u25	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur? [[No.]] In that case, or I have already concluded the general debate, so I am opening up a detailed debate in which I have four applications. Mr Okamura apologizes for reasons of work until the end of the day. Mr Šrámek's apology has now arrived from 19 a.m. to the end of the day, so I apologize to him. I have four applications for a detailed debate. Three are on the board, but there is still a written application from Mr Birke's previous meeting, so he will be the first to speak. And Mr Zahradníček will be prepared - who is not here, so I will take that as an application from Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me, in a detailed debate, to sign up for an amendment by the House document number 3781. In my opinion, it is not necessary to read, it is present in the House document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u27	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Klán and then Mr Zemek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u28	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced in the general debate, I am signing up for an amendment which has been inserted into the system by my colleague Zahradníček and is led as House document 3824. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Zemek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u30	Thank you. I'll try to be brief in terms of advanced times. I would like to sign up for several amendments. The first one is 3833, it's about the radon program. There is a major change proposed, when in the current draft, in this novel, a private person can actually be sanctioned if he does not make adjustments to the house where radon was found. There's a fine of up to a quarter of a million. In my adjustment, I propose to waive this penalty, but there remains an obligation to make those adjustments. That is one amendment. The second, under heading 3922, concerns a specific Czech product, which is uranium glass. It's kind of an interesting art thing. However, even if there is the name of the uranium glass, according to the State Nuclear Safety Authority, such material is not radioactive or minimal. Therefore, it is suggested to release it, because it is artistic glass. [[unintelligible]] It is a traditional Czech product, and unfortunately, if the amendment were to be followed, there would be quite a big restriction on the loading. Of course, this is not about the coloring material itself, which is subject to the law. However, according to SÚJB, the uranium glass should not belong here. So that's the second amendment. The third concerns already mentioned museums and minerals. According to the proposed amendment, any manipulation of uranium mining residues, such as piles, and there are a lot of them in the Czech boiler, hundreds and hundreds of locations, so even if a scientist would turn there a single stone that doesn't even contain uranium ore, he is already committing a misdemeanor. So even here, I'm suggesting some relief. It is an amendment under number 3842 which I am signing up for. The next amendment concerns research, which is under number 3844, where an exception is proposed for research and development activities. In the present text, there is an obligation to report any activity, i.e. any minor action under the research project would have to be reported, which may also be contrary to a certain academic freedom. So that is another amendment. Another proposal is under the heading 3845, concerning the nuclear waste charge, where it is proposed to reduce fees for government or state institutions, such as schools, hospitals, museums, where a new rate is proposed less than the commercial ones. The next amendment concerns the dilution of radionuclides. He's under number 3846. Dilution of the radionuclide is the standard method of disposal that is used in scientific workplaces where the radon is actually diluted for as long as it is harmless. In essence, the proposed text proposed by the SÚJB or the petitioner does not recognise this, and thus it also runs counter to another paragraph in this same draft law. So I'm suggesting this dilution or disable this procedure from that paragraph. These were the amendments I had read. I believe that the House is a sovereign, and while I have no doubt about the expert erudition of the State Office for Nuclear Safety, I think that in some of these cases it is possible to mitigate. I hope that these amendments will still be discussed and, if possible, supported, which would make the work of museums, scientific institutions and universities much easier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-013-027.u31	Thank you. And when the ovation is over, I'm going to ask who's next reporting for a detailed debate. Mr Klán, who was written on the board, has already spoken, so I assume he does not wish to speak for the second time. In that case, I have no further applications, and I am ending the debate in detail. Let me ask you about the final words. Minister or rapporteur? It's not like that. Since nothing has fallen out of the vote, I am also ending the second reading of this press. More apologies. Mrs Wernerová, from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons and Mrs Nytrová and Mr Šincl, from 19 a.m. to meet with the Algeria delegation. So many apologies. Let's continue with the point.
