ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u1	157. Government bill on gambling / House print 578/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff, as well as the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is therefore the budget committee, Mr Jan Volný. The amendments are in press 587/4, which was delivered on 2 March 2016, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 587/5. I would like to ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u2	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment here on the bill on gambling, the gambling tax law and the amendment law, which together form a completely new regulatory framework for the gambling market. The proposed regulation is a reflection of the objectives of the Government of the Czech Republic and, in view of the ongoing infringement proceedings on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the result of harmonisation with European Union law. I therefore welcome the fact that we can contribute to the approval of modern regulation in such an important area of social relations as gambling, which can be seen as an extraordinary and turning point. The proposed bills replace the completely inadequate and obsolete Act No. 202/1990 Coll., so 26 years old law on lotteries and other similar games, as amended, and brings a comprehensive regulation of the operation of gambling, especially in the form of consistent protection of betting and their surroundings, ensuring measures to prevent and combat sociopathological phenomena associated with the operation of gambling, opening the Czech gambling market to operators located in a Member State of the European Union, regulation of the operation of gambling through the Internet, new authorisation procedure and, last but not least, the introduction of an effective control mechanism. [[By opening it?]] In response to the current unacceptable high incidence of illegal gambling, the bill significantly strengthens the position of individual administrations in the relevant areas of gambling. Through the emerging monitoring system, but especially now significantly discussed blocking measures and other powers of both the Ministry of Finance and Customs will enable the new regulation to effectively prevent illegal activities. Furthermore, with an emphasis on the implementation of the constitutional right to self-government, municipalities will make even wider decisions on municipal matters in the areas of gambling, but while maintaining the right to entrepreneurship and legitimate expectations of legal operators. The proposal for a Gaming Tax Act responds to the opening up of the gambling market to entities established abroad and to the growing use of the Internet in this area. Therefore, there will also be a new tax on foreign operators and Internet operators. The rates of taxation are designed to reflect the harmfulness of individual gambling, as well as their profitability. Three rates of taxation are proposed compared to today's two rates. Their height increases slightly compared to current rates. This brings the proposed rates closer to rates in the surrounding countries. Please note that any reduction in rates compared to the government proposal would mean a reduction in the expected tax revenue. Finally, it is proposed to abolish direct contributions to the Czech Olympic Committee. Sport financing should only take place next time from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which will be for this reason, and this is the proposal of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance, up to six billion. [[9.10 hours]] The effectiveness of the Act is proposed from 1 January 2017. I'd like to comment mainly on the discussed blockage right now. The Ministry of Finance tried to explain this issue. We've had a series of meetings, especially with Mr. Bartoš, the chief of the Pirates. I would like to read here the letter I received from Tipsport, which says: "We, representatives of Czech legal betting offices, are eager to expect the adoption of the law, namely its blocking mechanisms against illegals. The biggest problem of today's online gambling market in the Czech Republic is the illegal market. The ratio of the legal and illegal online market in the Czech Republic is one to one. Each second bet in the Czech Republic is illegal. - Once again: every second bet in the Czech Republic is illegal. - The gambling market is gradually moving from retail to online environment. The new law will make a strong contribution to this trend by allowing online casinos and online numerical games. And if the state can't block illegals, it will collect less on taxes and levies than it does now, and the black market will grow significantly faster than the legal market. Blocking illegals is therefore an alpha and omega of the entire law, without which the whole standard loses its meaning. Czech companies are unable to compete with illegal companies. Illegals do not pay any taxes or taxes. The operation of lottery activities in the Czech Republic is cheaper for them by hundreds of millions per year than for Czech entities. The state budget is missing a billion crowns a year in taxes. This situation is unsustainable and rather absurd. The new law gives the state two basic tools to fight illegals. It's about blocking illegal websites and blocking bank transfers. Illegal websites mean sites that are in Czech, which are aimed at players in Bohemia. These are instruments recommended by the European Commission and are now using 18, 18 countries of the European Union as a standard. There is no way to talk about censorship or violation of the Constitution, and there is no way to talk about these measures as ineffective, because experience from other European Union markets clearly shows that these measures, together with their effective enforcement, have helped substantially reduce the volume of the black market for online betting in those countries. If the state fails to block illegal companies, the adoption of the law will lose most of the original intention, which was better regulated, to comply with the requirements of the European Union, to collect more in taxes and to block illegals. There will still be half of the market, which will not have to and will not actually comply with the new standard, and the share of illegals will grow throughout the market." They're also sending me a blocking map of Europe. This is a blocking map of Europe and a red field is a blocking website. [[shows]] So today, in the European Union, there is a blocking of the website of Norway, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, France, Spain, Italy, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece. The black field is blocking bank payments. This is done by Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Denmark, Germany, Belgium, France, Spain, Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania, Greece. So it's not the finance department's fantasy, and no one here wants to limit anyone. But if someone's doing business here without a permit and they don't pay taxes, then the Treasury has to submit this proposal. And of course, it is important that you all vote in favour of this law, because these illegals, who have made the Czech Republic a tax haven for several years, will finally be forced to leave the Czech market or to apply for a license and participate in a fair competition with Czech entities, in a highly regulated environment. So much for Mr. Knybel's letter from the CEO of Tipsport. I would still like to comment on the draft tax. The Treasury Department... Of course, if we go back to history, you'll remember that gambling had such a special position with us and actually didn't pay any taxes until 2012, they didn't start paying taxes until 2012. And we actually made a benchmark at the Ministry of Finance, we compared the rates, and the proposal that the Ministry of Finance is proposing today, that is, taxing 25, 30, 35 percent, was created before it was found that we would not be able to make this law as of 1 January 2016 and that there would be an annual vacuum, and that is why 23, 28 plus 80 crowns were temporarily approved, which applies in 2016. Today, of course, municipalities are getting out of gambling, in 2016 they should get about 5.1 billion. and state 4.1 billion. Since 2014, based on the fact that the government didn't want much to finance sport, there has been an anomaly, a tax sign for the Czech Olympic Committee, which will actually get 600 million this year, and in these proposals we say that the financing of Czech sport should come from one place that this anomaly should end. So what I'd like to say about the taxes is that the budget committee's proposals have a negative impact on the 450-mile withdrawal. CZK, Mr Votava's proposal has a negative impact of 250 million. CZK and Mr Stanjura's proposal up to CZK 1.6 billion. So I would very much like you to support this proposal when voting on the proposal from the Ministry of Finance, because I'm sure all of your voters will watch closely if you want to support our young athletes and sports, because historically there is such a link, we didn't invent it, and here we do not have a state lottery, as is the case in most or in some other countries in the European Union. So I would like you to really support the coalition government's proposal and the Treasury's proposal in terms of the issues I was talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate and I have three applications for it so far. Mr Šincl, please, and Mr Farský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to appreciate the efforts of this government, which, as the first government since 1990, has prepared a proposal for a truly comprehensive regulation of gambling in the territory of the Czech Republic, which is represented by three draft laws, namely the Gaming Act, the Gaming Tax Act and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of both previous laws. I believe that it is really appropriate here to highlight the efforts of the government as a whole, because they were indeed all coalition partners, who, with joint efforts and joint work at the government level, managed to comprehensively redesign the original into the government submitted, not quite a satisfactory proposal from the Ministry of Finance's workshop, into the form in which it is presented today for approval to the Chamber of Deputies. If we compare the original proposal with the current version of the bill, I think it is quite indisputable that, without incorporating changes at the government level, I mean at least some measures taken to prevent dependence and others, the original proposal would be completely inoperable and, today, hardly supported by me. [[9.20 hours]] Repeatedly during the discussion of these three prints, there was information about the fact that the existing legislation represented in particular by Law No. 102/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, not only does it not reflect in any way the technological developments achieved in the previous more than 25 years in this area, but also constitutes a regulation whose compatibility with primary European law is still subject to review by the European Commission. I therefore consider it primary to point out that, after the government-level interventions today, we will vote on a bill which is not only fully compatible with European Union law, but, above all, contains comprehensive legislation on the operation of gambling in the environment of the Internet, i.e. where the majority of it is already taking place today. In this context, I consider it necessary to emphasise at this point that, thanks to the difficult enforcement of law in the Internet environment, it is quite appropriate that the bill contains effective instruments to combat the illegal supply of those who refuse to submit to a new regulatory framework. In this way, we will be able to guarantee the protection of Czech players, achieve an increase in the tax revenue from this activity for Czech public budgets, and effectively affect today's commonly realized illegal gambling operating in the Czech Republic. In view of the fundamental importance of the regulation of this area in society, I have already called for all three proposed laws to be thoroughly analysed at the start of the first reading and to assess its impact on society as a whole. In my opinion, interest in the speed of adoption of the proposed legislation should not outweigh expert discussions within the Houses of Committees. In this respect, allow me some reproach to the petitioner, the Ministry of Finance. This, despite all the political declarations, failed to submit a proposal for a new law within a deadline to be determined by the government approved by the legislative work plan. This deadline was originally set at the end of 2014. Thanks to delays on the part of the petitioner and the not-quite-quality way of processing, the government was forced to adjust the original proposal. All the more striking is the fact that the Minister of Finance, by letter, called on all coalition partners not to intervene in the bill as far as possible, since it could allegedly delay its adoption. I do not consider this argument to be very happy and, in my view, may even undermine the foundations of parliamentary democracy. It was precisely because of this pressure of the Minister that it was not possible to complete a number of other necessary instruments in the bill, which were rejected by the petitioner not because of their factual incorrectness, but with reference to the necessity of renotification and the possible delay in the entry into force and effectiveness of the regulation. I mean, in particular, various other measures to prevent addiction and others. It is enough to read the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the amendments I have tabled myself, which, as a result, have only tried to reduce the dependence of pathological players even more. This, in my opinion, was from the Ministry of Finance's staff an almost university of counter-arguments trying to explain the reasons why they cannot support these amendments made by me. Thanks to this approach, I believe that today we will be voting on a bill which, although it represents an indisputable qualitative move forward, could have been much better, more stringent and more effective. This law had the potential to get a mark for one in the finals. However, thanks to the objections that have already been raised here, I have to evaluate it with a mark of three. Now allow me to proceed to specific issues which, even after this law has been approved, need to continue to pay more attention. First of all, I would like to stress that, in my view, the Ministry of Finance will have to add significantly to the issue of effective sanctions for illegal gambling, which is currently experiencing unfortunately unprecedented booms, which fundamentally undermines proper competition in this sector and which, in particular, significantly endangers consumers themselves, the citizens of the Czech Republic. At present, illegal gambling takes place in our territory in several forms, both in the area of online gambling operated from abroad and in the area of technical gaming facilities, where there is mass replacement of legal gaming equipment by various quiz-type devices clearly passed by the lottery law. The procedure of the Ministry of Finance against these and other forms of illegal gambling seems to me not entirely effective. The number of illegal devices operating in the Czech Republic is increasing at an exponential rate thanks to the Ministry of Finance's approach so far. The new law does not bring any shift in this regard and it is so obvious that the problem of illegal gambling in the form of quizomats and similar facilities operating in the territory of our cities and municipalities will continue to be very delicate. I am very sorry that the petitioner has squandered an opportunity that will not be repeated for some time. The second point, which, in my view, is worth a lot of attention after the approval of the new law, is the process of building a central technical information system for the supervision of gambling operations. This information system should not only serve to monitor all bets, but also to collect data on all gambling players. The cost of creating this system will be estimated by the Ministry of Finance to reach up to several hundred million crowns, so I think it is appropriate to ask whether the Czech Republic really needs such a costly and robust system and what led the petitioner to the idea of creating a register and collecting all data about citizens of the Czech Republic, i.e. not only pathologically dependent or receiving social benefits. I don't have a problem with those. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In addition to this consideration, it is worth noting that the Ministry of Finance has already paid public funds to external entities in the order of CZK million only for the preparation of the procurement documents for this public contract. All this, please, in a situation where the Minister often praises his ability to provide all these activities with his experts working directly at the Ministry of Finance. It is therefore appropriate to ask the Minister whether his legal team at the Ministry of Finance is capable of -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u5	Ambassador, I'm very sorry, but the noise level is too high. I ask everyone not to discuss and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u6	It is therefore appropriate to ask the Minister whether his legal team at the Ministry of Finance is able to draw up a public contract and whether and why he needs an external contractor to do so. In this regard, it is appropriate to appeal to the Minister to follow the current position of the Government on the effective management of public funds and to dispel the prevailing doubts about the need for this public contract and its preparation by external bodies. In my opinion, there are more than enough experts and experts in the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to vote on the bill, which, as I said at the outset, represents in many steps in the right direction. For this reason, I and my colleagues from social democracy will vote for him. Nevertheless, we should not forget some aspects that accompanied its preparation and which ultimately can negatively affect the stability and effectiveness of the proposed regulation of gambling. Some of them I tried to describe backwards in my speech, and others I deliberately poke out for the future, because without further pressure on the Ministry of Finance in the area of measures to prevent addiction, effective sanctions for illegal gambling and control of the public contract of a huge dimension prepared by external entities at the Ministry of Finance, the primary objective of new regulation, i.e. ensuring the proper operation of gambling in the territory of the Czech Republic, which will provide sufficient protection not only against illegal supply of gambling but also against the unfortunate consequences associated with their disproportionate participation in these games, may not be likely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please Mr Farský and Mr Bendl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will start today with a little untraditional, but a text that I think should be heard here. He was supposed to be at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, but there were no representatives of the Association for Internet Development allowed to appear. I hope it's not a sign of future order. The Internet Development Association is not an organisation, only one of the lobbyists. It is an organization that brings together dozens of players in the Internet market. You will find among them the List, you will find among them Mafru, you will find among them the Czech Press Office, you will find there O2, Vodafone, T-Mobile. So their opinion is not the one that should be taken lightly. I will now read not my words here, but the words of Mr Simkanič, President of the Association for Internet Development, and I will take my opinion: "Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak here before the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies." - That didn't happen, but I'm gonna leave it there for authenticity. "As Chairman of the Association for Internet Development, I represent the leading players of the Czech digital economy from content providers to telecommunications operators. The reason for my performance is the only one. We are deeply concerned about the effort to entrust the politically managed office with the power to block access to the website and we fear that you have not received complete and objective information from the petitioner on this matter. Imagine the following situation. Any contribution on Czech Television or Nova violates valid legislation, which sometimes happens. As a result, however, the screen blackens because one member of the government decided to block the broadcast of the entire television. This is an absurd idea, and I doubt that many of you would raise your hand to the law that will give such an opportunity to a minister. Yet you are going to support the bill on gambling, which contains a similar weapon against the website. History is full of examples of trips to hell paved with godly intentions, and I think you can have another on your conscience, if you trust one ministry with unprecedented power to intervene in a free internet environment seemingly in the name of fighting gambling. Will you stop gamblers? No. The ways around this blockage are trivially simple. Will you destroy such illegal gambling? No way. He will continue to offer his services over the Internet without any difficulty. Will you put absolute power in the hands of the Treasury to decide the fate of the website? Definitely and without any doubt. Are you really sure this power will not be abused? Do you want to create a precedent that will allow it to interfere with the freedom of the Internet environment next time under another and another pretext? What's the excuse next? Pedophilia, pornography, terrorism, the right opinions, or the right ones? Do you want to turn the Czech Republic into a China that fully controls the Internet? Do you want to make the Czech Republic Turkey blocking foreign social networks like Facebook or Twitter? Do you want a guy who says he buys the media to write the truth by chance? Bottom line, in this case, it's not about gambling. The point is that you will open Pandořin's box, which threatens the basic civil and constitutionally guaranteed freedom, by an absolutely unnecessary and ineffective measure. There's hardly going to be a way back. I have already mentioned that the Ministry of Finance gives incomplete and misleading information to Members. He is referring to his defence through foreign practice, but according to our findings, this experience from abroad shows that illegal gambling operators and players are extremely easy to circumvent such a measure. In France, for example, according to the renowned daily Le Monde blockage, every other player goes around, and it should be pointed out that nowhere, even in Denmark, which is referred to by the Czech Ministry of Finance as a model example of blocking, the Ministry does not decide about the illegality of the site, but only the court on the basis of the complaint of the state regulator. The Czech Ministry of Finance argues wrong by foreign examples, because the Czech proposal significantly exceeds the framework of foreign legislation and does not reflect the necessary safeguards against abuse or negative experience from abroad. There is no way to completely prevent illegal gambling on the Internet and to reduce it significantly should help in particular to block payment transactions, which the present gambling law also contains. This tool targets illegal gambling operators much more effectively, and unlike blocking the site, it is not entirely exploitable to liquidate any website and does not interfere in a censorship way with Internet freedoms. Therefore, on behalf of the Czech digital industry, I ask you not to entrust politicians with the power to censor the Internet and to support the release at third reading of the blocking of access to Internet sites from the bill on gambling." So much Ján Simkanič, Chairman of the Association for Internet Development. I identify with his words. I would like to say that Sections 82 and 84, as proposed, are truly exceptional in our legal order. In order for Treasury officials to decide, in non-transparable proceedings, to block any websites that are being labeled as spreading, promoting, allowing illegal gambling, it is a breakthrough into the freedom of the Internet that has not yet been here. Of course, the Internet is already limited: child pornography, arms trafficking, etc. But is it that the Ministry of Defence is blocking sites with illegal arms trafficking, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs blocking websites with child pornography, and the Ministry of Health is blocking sites with illegal drug trafficking? It's not because it's the court's decision. And why, in this case - in this exceptional case - does the Ministry of Finance want to usurp this power? Don't they trust the courts? There are no slower courts, preliminary measures and its application can be far faster than any decision of the courts. Why does the Treasury want to pull this off? Why does he want power and control over the Internet? Why does the Treasury want to become Big Brother? I didn't get that answer. This table was shown here. [[He's pointing.]] I'm not gonna upset her at all. I think and my amendment, which is in the press, wants to block the bank payments that remain. I'm not interfering with Section 83 at all. All I'm saying is that paragraphs 82 and 84 should be adjusted so that the blockage is preserved, but it was not on the will of the officials, but it was on the will of the court. We are perhaps still in a legal state where courts, not officials, decide what is legal and illegal. From this point of view, I hope that you will not support this proposal that this bill, as defined in paragraphs 82 and 84, does not support and accept an amendment that retains this power to block the website, but leaves it to the court where it belongs. To do what the Ministry usurps and what is another unanswered question for me, it is that in advance it must know that what it proposes to do is essentially blocking the Internet, as the Ministry of Finance has prepared it, ineffective and, at the same time, easily exploitable measures. Inefficient in that it can be very, very easy to bypass. Abuse that you can also block sites that are uncomfortable to you. And as such, the measure should not be in the hands of an office under the authority of politics. And it doesn't matter which politician will ever sit there in the future, but we, as politicians, are not supposed to usurp that power. Internet freedom is one of the fundamental freedoms of democratic societies, and please do not shift this provision into China. I'm going to give you an absurd example that I know from a friend of mine who's been living in Russia for a while. But it is an absurd example that you may find impossible that this cannot happen in the Czech Republic. I thought about many things a few months ago that they could not happen in the Czech Republic, yet the events of the last few weeks have greatly broadened my horizons and imagination. [[9.40 hours]] In Russia, if there is any blogger, some blog that will publish information that is uncomfortable and uncomfortable to the local leadership, so not that in the first stage this blog is deleted, it would still look like censorship, but in the debate under this blog you will need a guide on how to make a bomb or call for a terrorist attack, and then the whole blog, including its entire history, is blocked and deleted. Is that the authority you want to give to the Treasury? I didn't. Thank you for your attention and especially for supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u9	Mr Bendl, please, and Mr Hovorka will be ready. [[Mr Votava is reporting to the speaker.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I forgot Mr Votava with a point of fact. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would first of all like to turn against Mr Farský's opening words through you, Mr President. It is not true that representatives of the Association for Internet Development did not get the floor on the Committee on Budgets. The first reading, when the budget committee was going on, they spoke, they were given the floor, they had the opportunity to comment on blocking the pages, as the Ministry of Finance suggested. Yes, it is true that after the plenary amendments returned to the guarantee committee, I did not allow the public to speak out, as is normally the case, because we only expressed opinions and, of course, we voted on these opinions. Then I talked to them and explained it to them, and I even had them in my office where we explained some things. So please don't say such things that it determines the next time as it will be in other cases. It won't. The public will be given space, but for the first time reading on the Committee on Budgets, not when the opinions are voted on by the Committee on Guarantees after the third reading. I've got half a minute left, so in short. Please don't make everything a big brother like this. This blocking pages including blocking payments is not an invention of the Czech Republic. [[The speaker's showing the map.]] The minister here showed a map of 18 countries of the European Union, where this is happening. And are you saying that Germany, France, Spain, Poland, Belgium, Italy - these are all countries that prevent free access to the Internet? [[Time warning]] I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u11	Thank you. I have three factual points - Mr Pilný, then Mr Kalousek and then Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to say that the Internet is part of a society that, of course, significantly affects life in every way. The Internet lives largely from advertising. All these companies live on advertising, and the percentage of advertising in the portfolio is constantly increasing. So it's natural for companies that run the Internet to try to defend this in some way. But somewhere, there's some kind of limit that the law regulates. And every time he touches something on the Internet, there's a huge storm, like restricting freedom on the Internet and stuff like that. But it must also be said that there is a society living here, and those laws must be regulated in some way. Are we going to admit child pornography and other things in the framework of freedom on the Internet? If an operator violates the law, of course there must be some measure in the law to prevent him from doing so. Of course, it is a problem with those Internet providers, because when the European Commission adopted the rule of the right to be forgotten, that is, if there are any references on the Internet that you do not like, they are to be deleted, it is technically very difficult, or perhaps even impossible. But we need to start this process. The Internet is not a medium that is out of control within freedom. This is simply not possible given that today, and it concerns the economy, the Internet plays a huge role and must be subject to the rules that apply to the rest of society and which apply to the real world. It must also be true in the virtual world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u13	I beg President Kalousek and then Mr Farský. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u14	Thank you. Please allow a short response to both Mr Pilný and Mr Votava. We are, Mr Pilný, for one thing with you, through Mr President, that if the website operator is breaking the law, it must be intervened. But that is to be decided by the court in a free democratic country. This is what Mr Farský proposal proposes. Does that mean he's an official of the Ministry of Finance subordinate to the political leadership, or is that an independent court? We believe that an independent court. And I would like to reply to Mr Votav through the President that we do not make everything a Big Brother. It's your skill to put the velký bratr in every sector and every situation we discuss. And if you're setting an example for Germany, I'm sorry, but that's a little different. Neither Peer Steinbrück nor Wolfgang Scheuble had any ties to Stasi.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u15	Mr Farský and Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u16	I just want it to be really obvious. If my amendment passes, the blocking of the website will be maintained, the blocking of bank payments will be maintained. All that's gonna change is that blocking websites isn't gonna be the decision of the Treasury, it's gonna be the trial. I think that's where the decision-making goes. And that is my amendment that I have proposed. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u17	Mr Chalup and then Mr Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u18	Thanks for the word. I'm just talking about what's being said here today and dealing with - the Internet and freedom. I want to point out that basically we don't even have a solution to how we're gonna behave on the Internet when there's basically a hybrid war going on, the danger of terrorism and that sort of thing. So if we are going to talk about the Internet and restrict freedom here, I also call on my opponents to engage in a debate on the Defence and Security Committee on this issue, as we may be dealing with this, because we are in the same problem where we will see that something is going on against the security of citizens of the Czech Republic, and we will have to intervene in the Internet and we will not be able to wait for the decision of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u19	Mr Pilný and then Mr Votava. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. It just doesn't make any sense to run something on the Internet by an independent court who decides in six months or two years. If the action doesn't happen right away, it doesn't make any sense at all. I'm sure an independent court could decide that, but then we'd have to make some martial courts that would just decide in one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u21	Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u22	Thank you for the floor. I think my colleague Pilný crossed over and basically said what I wanted to say. It's the speed of decision making. It's the right decision. And, of course, the instance can also be the court, of course the site owner concerned can appeal to the court, preliminary measures and so on. So there's no way the court is left out. This is about the speed of the solution, as my colleague Pilný said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u23	Mr Kalousek, Mr Kučera after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u24	I am very pleased that Mr Votava here mentioned the institute of preliminary action. The speed here will be secured. If the Ministry of Finance makes a motion for interim action before the court, it may be decided that day. In a few cases, as Minister of Finance, I asked the court for a preliminary ruling, and I was given a decision within hours. Not in the days, weeks, or six months, as said here. And what Mr. Votava said is exactly the difference between the state-citizen relationship as we feel it. We're gonna cut it off for you first, and if you don't like it, you can go to court. And I don't think that's how you do it. If we feel you've broken the law, we'll turn to the court to stop you. And decide, colleagues, how do you feel about the relationship of a state-citizen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u25	Mr. Kučera is pulling out. And Mr. Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, he has already explained to President Kalousek that there are court decisions that can take place quickly. I would just add to what was said here from Mr Pilný and Mr Votava, one example where the decision-making of the court really works within 24 hours, namely the detention of a patient who has to be detained violently because he is unable to give his consent or is unwilling to give it, and at the same time endangers himself or his surroundings. This institute works perfectly and can therefore apply to things that relate to the Internet and are very serious from a social point of view. In the end, as has already been said from the mouth of my colleague Farský, these serious things are far wider than just black betting games. It sounds like we have illegal drugs, often fake, illegal child pornography, etc. For this reason, in conclusion, I would say that if the law passes and really exists here at the Ministry of Finance institute, which will be able to block the Internet outside the judicial decisions, then the institute should be named quite correctly and clearly, let at least something readable in the Ministry of Finance's activities in this area, and it should be called the Censor Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u27	I also have no factual points, in which case I shall give the floor to Mr Bendl, who is duly entered in the general debate, after whom Mr Hovorka will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, I did not speak to this law in any length because I have confidence in colleagues who have dealt with this in the Committee on Budgets and, where appropriate, the committees that discussed this material, even if I am a little surprised when the chairman of the Committee on Budgets here says that the public can only speak to this material at first reading. I feel that in the Rules of Procedure Act, we have no restriction on public speaking, that the public can speak at any committee meeting if the committee so decides. If you have decided not to give space to the public on any occasion, it is the supreme right of the committee and the responsibility of each of the Members whether or not they will do so. In my country, when I say to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as well as the Committee on Agriculture, when anyone comes, they get the space, and I think that should be the case for other committees. After all, where else we should look at the details than there is. And here, it might not sound as much as it sounds. And now it's perfectly logical. Because we're opening the gate to something we may not be able to conceive of at this point in time. Because what we're saying here is that this lawbreaker isn't going to be a trial, but it's going to be some sort of censorship commission that's just going to say, "Yes, stop this website or website right now. And whoever has to start proving whether or not he broke the law isn't gonna stand, but he's gonna be the one who's on the Internet. I consider this to be a huge precedent in a number of other areas, and I think that if we do not change this paragraph of law, or the way it is proposed, in line with what my colleague Farský proposes, then we will simply become one of the countries with an undemocratic structure and the Internet as such acting restrictively. I think that we are creating a kind of seed that will grow in the future, or has a chance to grow into a tree that will really control the Internet with everything, and it will be officials who will judge on individual ministries whether it has been broken or not broken the law. I think we should rather look at how quickly we can make sure that the courts are equipped to do so, or not, so that the judicial or interim measure can take place as quickly as possible. And it is a matter of courts, not according to my deep conviction of the Ministry of Finance, who is to judge whether or not there has been a violation of the law. It's a shame the Minister of Justice isn't here to comment on this, if necessary. I wanted to make this change, as my colleague Farský suggests, in that law, so that it would not be possible for individual officials to be able to judge whether or not there has been a violation of the law, but to do so by a court, because I believe that we would be included in countries that do not have democratic regimes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u29	Mr. Hovorka, please. Sorry, sorry, Mr. President's speech has raised factual points again. First, Mr Fiedler, then Mr Votava and then Mr Luzar. So in that order. I ask Mr Hovorka to wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not react immediately to the performance of my colleague Farský, because I was still looking on my laptop into the wording of the law, I printed § 82, but it does not matter, because I am basically responding to the performance of Mr Bendl's previous speaker. I've been looking at the wording, and I quote it to you, colleagues. It is very short: the Ministry of Finance will issue a decision in the framework of the said administrative procedure to determine that the site is operated in breach of this law, i.e. without proper permission, and then place this page on the list of websites. So I perceive the wording of the law so that the Ministry's official is merely checking whether the site is on the list of permitted games or not. He's not making any more decisions. And here I really think that I'm not a friend of officials, that the ministerial servant is able to judge whether or not he's on the list of allowed ones, and then I really don't see why he's going to postpone the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u31	Mr Votava, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u32	Thank you for your sayBendl Mr President, I do not want to hold you back. It is certainly not up to the committee chairman to see whether he is allowed to speak to anyone from among the public, whether lay or professional. That speech was then first reading in the general debate on the Committee on Budgets, where they had the opportunity to comment. And I always ask whether it is possible to ask the members of the Committee on Budgets whether we will allow the public to speak. And there was no objection when we discussed the second reading amendments in the guarantee committee. There was no objection. If there had been an objection to my proposal not to allow a speech at this time, because the speeches were held in the general debate, I would certainly have put it to a vote. But there was no objection. It wasn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u33	Member Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that this law has one flaw, and that is freedom of the Internet. According to the discussion, that's how I see it. čili I am thinking that we could try to propose the law on the Internet as a separate law and its freedom to submit to this honourable Parliament. Second thing. There's been a debate here about speed, about preliminary action, about reasonable suspicion. These are terms that are commonly used. [[10.00 hours]] I'm warning you of one thing. The Internet has one spell, and these are thousands of variations and variations of its operation. It's not a material thing when you're able to describe that you want to ban something in particular, somewhere it stands, the court decides. That you can describe: the particular person suffers from something - and the court decides and the particular person can be. The Internet is very variable in this view. That's why I understand canceling the third interlink in the first step, the trial from this. Because how do you plan to proceed technically? A clerk finds out the site's breaking the law. He's gonna have to I.D. her. He will write exactly the address, etc., so that the judge who is a layman, I warn you, on this matter, will have to decide. And he's going to want some material in a certain format. The court will decide. And by the fact that the Internet is so variable, the site will change in a second and it will be under another domain, it will look a little different. And at that point, the clerk will have to write the court order again, name the page again, he'll have to do this again. It's a big problem. Therefore, in this logic of the law, I understand that the opposite problem is set here. You have reasonable suspicion here, and you can appeal to the court and defend yourself against that reasonable suspicion. That means, if the Ministry suspects and reasonable suspicions, and blocks the site, the operator of the site will turn to the court and defend itself that the reasonable suspicion was not correct. Freedom of the Internet will be maintained by a decision of the court. This is also appropriate for the Ministry of the Interior. In the last week, the Constitutional Court's decision came out that the reasonable suspicion that the police had to restrain a drunk driving licence was wrong and the Ministry of Interior had to pay compensation. I assume the court will apply the same procedure to the Treasury if this reasonable suspicion of gambling overrides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u35	Mr. Mr. Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u36	Hello. Thank you for your word. I think it was a good thing we heard from our colleague from the KSČM here to release the redundant article - the court. I think it's a good thing it sounded like that. That's probably all this is about: let's release the redundant article called court. We'll do it once, we'll do it twice, we'll do it a third time, and then it'll be a perfectly standard thing. However, I agree with my colleague that the decision to block is not easy. He'll have to be very quick and highly qualified. I do not think that the process that will be going on can be accelerated by the official himself much more quickly than according to his colleague from the KSČM redundant step, i.e. court proceedings. It's been there for hours. And the fact that the pages can change, that the pages can react very much and change their addresses, change their operators, somewhere relogged into other states, maybe even after the official's intervention. This means that the effectiveness of the measure is being questioned. However, we as TOP 09 agree that the pages will be blocked. We just don't want a colleague from the KSČM to be expelled from that redundant article, and that's the trial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u37	I will ask Mr Šincl if he has applied. [[Yes.]] In that case, he will take precedence with the facts and then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u38	I would try to respond to my colleague Luzar. I already said that in my performance. In my opinion, there is not a single problem, as a colleague here said, which is only connected to whether or not there will be blocked pages. I was talking in my speech about matters relating to a lack of, in my opinion, a number of adictological measures, so-called. restrictive measures against the emergence of further dependence on issues that remain unresolved are so called. quizomats, so-called illegal gambling carried out in the Czech Republic in large quantities and a question related to building so called. A robust system at the Treasury Department, which I don't know why it's so huge and robust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u39	Now, Mr Luzar, and I still have a factual rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u40	I'll be very short on you through to my colleagues from TOP 09. This country has already experienced a time when economists outrun lawyers and when it never ended in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u41	Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u42	Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. I have a feeling here the impression that blocking this website will be a matter of five minutes for an official to decide whether to block or block. The law directly describes, and this will be the procedure that the first will be the challenge of the illegal operator. After the invitation and the failure of this operator to react, administrative proceedings shall be initiated. And the administration will end by placing this operator on the blacklist, and that will basically start the blocking process again. The Ministry assumes that this process will take about a month and throughout that time the operator has the option, and will be repeatedly called upon to legalise or to abandon our market itself. That means, it's not the momentary conviction of some clerk who finds something and pushes the button to turn off the page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u43	Thank you, Mr Volný. Good morning, ma'am and gentlemen. Let's keep going. That was the last point of fact. So we can start the debate. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is duly registered and has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance for preparing a completely new law after 25 years. I have tried to improve this bill with five amendments F1 to F5. In them I tried nothing but what is recommended in all the studies that have been processed in matters of addiction, and this is a reduction of the impact on players, their dependence and, above all, on their families. And that's a minimum break after an hour of playing, so that the player can cool off to keep the break for at least 15 minutes, he can straighten out his thoughts and stop playing. To realize how much he lost. That is Amendment F1. Amendment F3 is based on German and Slovak legislation, which sets maximum hour play and maximum bet on the game and maximum win. This proposal is a maximum bet in one game of 10 crowns. It is a higher amount than it is in Germany and Slovakia, and a maximum win of 500 crowns from one game. It's because these people can't lose their paycheck so fast. And the last amendments, F4 and F5, concern the highest hourly loss, which is, of course, similar to Slovakia or Germany, derived from the lower amounts that can be used for one game. It's so that this guy can't really lose his entire paycheck in one day. I think that, despite the rejection of the position from the Ministry of Finance, because the law has already been somehow pre-negotiated, that it has been notified to the European Commission, that the adoption of these amendments would not jeopardise the process of approving this law, its notification. I consider this to be a sensible amendment, which is actually based on the recommendations of experts, psychologists, who say that this is the way in which people's dependence must be eliminated. And for these reasons, the Czech Republic was actually referred to as Europe's casino that so many people have often lost all their paychecks because they have become dependent mainly on technical games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u45	Mr Bendl's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u46	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the rapporteur, and so I understood that a member of the censorship commission at the Ministry of Finance would somehow learn that there is a website here that could be contrary to the law. He's gonna write him a letter or an e-mail or something, and he's gonna be waiting for some kind of reaction. If there is no response, they will initiate administrative proceedings. And over the course of about a month, those pages will be shut down by decision. Does that mean that for a few more weeks, maybe months, the site will work instead of taking the chance of taking that preliminary measure in court and stopping the site faster? Can I ask if it's set like this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u47	With a point of fact? [[He's turning to the newsletter.]] Then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u48	If I'm talking about the moon, it's the maximum time that should be limited. Of course, we assume it will be faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u49	Thank you. I do not see any more factual ones, so until the general debate, Mr Valenta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, at the beginning of my brief speech, I must say that I have worked for 25 years in the field of education as a methodology for preventing sociopathological phenomena. And as you understand, this area is also closely linked to the issue of gambling, especially in high school youth, where I worked. This could result, and it also implies that I am strictly against gambling for life. And since we have him here from a certain political decision in the Czech Republic, I am in favour of his maximum taxation. On the other hand, I am also opposed to any restriction on Internet freedom, because I believe and fear at the same time that there may be some kind of salami effect that this freedom of the Internet will be restricted in the future, even in other areas. As a politician, I fear that it will be limited, for example, in political news, because if we were to create an opinion, for example, only according to the news of Czech Television, we would find ourselves today in an imaginary world that is often far from the hunts. So if you don't mind, I'm just gonna say a few words about the intended Internet restriction. This blockage, which is required by the Ministry of Finance in the framework of the government's gambling proposal, gives unlimited authority to the politically managed office. That's what happened here. And I'd like to follow up on that. The issue is that it will be possible to block access to any website that, in some subjective opinion of an individual, commission or minister, will contain an unauthorized game. In countries such as Denmark, which the Ministry of Finance and Mr Andrej Babiš lead as a model, it also decides on this serious step of independent justice, at the initiative of the regulator. The possibility of blocking the website already exists in the Czech legal system, also on the basis of a judicial decision. So the new proposal is basically just handing this power over to a politically controlled office. That's what's been done here, too. Blocking access to the website, this has probably not yet been mentioned sufficiently, is also a serious intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed rights of Internet users to seek information, namely in Article 17 (2) of the Treaty. 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to which this right can only be limited if it is a measure necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the State, public security, the protection of public health and morality. In view of the above, and also the fact that the same objective can be achieved in other ways that interfere less in the fundamental right of citizens, for example by blocking payment transactions, which is, moreover, remembered by the draft law, an unbalanced intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed fundamental law and is therefore contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Nor is it completely uninteresting that the proposed modification may have an existential impact on the wrongly blocked operator, while entities moving beyond the legal limit can easily bypass the blockage technologically. On average, experienced users who choose to take advantage of a trivial anonymity Internet access are completely missing the effect of this treatment. Blocking selected websites, as modified in § 82, represents a non-systemic solution which, unfortunately, will not lead to a desired result. At the same time, this could be achieved in a much more efficient way, by blocking payments to accounts, as I have also mentioned, for selected operators. Blocking of pages, as proposed in § 82, is possible also using so-called anonymity, DNS change or other technical means, for example, using so-called virtual private VPN networks. At the same time, experience from abroad has shown that this method of blocking can be very easily prevented from accessing completely safe sites, which are placed, for example, on the same domain or using the same IP address. For example, the fact that the measure is non-systemic and will not in principle be effective indicates that it is not included in any existing legislation, for example in relation to child pornography or illegal drug sales. In this area, I fully agree with the opinion of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, which, unfortunately, was not heard in the context of the legal proceedings, as was the case with the voice of the professional public. The obligation to block content of websites constitutes in practice an inefficient measure that will entail significant costs on the part of electronic communications service providers. As a result, these costs may be reflected in prices charged to consumers for electronic communications services provided. In my opinion, this proposed blocking is also incompatible, as I have already mentioned, not only with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, but also with other documents including the Digital Czech 2.0 strategy, according to which the Czech Republic will guarantee that it will not block anyone's Internet access or access to specific websites or online services. In addition, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is the guarantor of the strategy and implementation of the Digital Agenda for Europe in the Czech Republic, drew attention to this fact. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't keep you any longer. Many of what I have said here, and I would like to say further, have already fallen here. Therefore, please, in particular, please accept my comments in your vote and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u51	I beg Mr Fiedler, who has a point of fact. I'll read the apologies by the time he gets here. The Minister of the Interior apologizes from 9 to 11 of his duties. Mrs Havlová between 18 and 19 on account of the hearing. Mr Zemánek from 14.30 to Friday 15. 4. for health reasons. Mr Mihola all day and Mr Luzar from 11.30 to 13.00. And I have Mr. Plíšek 13. 4. between 12.30 and 14.30 working reasons. And Mr. Laudát since 13. 4. until 15. 4. for personal reasons. So many apologies and please two minutes of Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u52	Thank you for the floor. I will respond again to the previous debate. I have a feeling it looks like a lottery law is just about blocking websites. I think there's a lot of interesting things we could mention. But when I listen to this debate, I feel like we want to accept the fact that the driver on the road won't have a driver's license and we're gonna deal with whether or not we're gonna shut him down. Please disprove me, either the petitioner or the rapporteur, or confirm what I said in my first point of fact. After all, the ministerial servant has to compare whether or not the person was on the list of authorised pages. That's all. In other words, if he doesn't have the driver's license, or if he doesn't have the driver's license. That's all it is. I have a feeling that, of course, freedom of the Internet is one thing, but here, if it's an unauthorized website, it's not on the list allowed, so why find it difficult? Isn't this about defending the illegal? 'Cause I don't think they're gonna be able to play kids on legal sites, and on illegal sites, they are. Are we going to accept this? Please, the rapporteur, if he would say: it is indeed the case that the ministerial servant will look at the list, it is there - it is not there, it will issue a decision accordingly. That's all. I guess I don't see any politics. Or, therefore, if my colleague is a Farskýý or a petitioner, let him convince me otherwise. So I see it as the driver's license on the road. We stop the driver, he doesn't have a driver's license, that's it. Over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u53	Thank you, too. And now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I really would not like the discussion of this law to come to an end only on whether to block or not to block illegal sites, because this amendment is quite essential. And in the field of gambling, i.e. pathological gaming, and regulation of the lottery industry, or gaming industry, brings real improvement in this area. It introduces certain regulations. And what needs to be realized is that the lottery industry, whether we like it or not, will unfortunately always be looking for a way to break through. And the task of the state is to regulate this area meaningfully and hard. I think that the draft of this law meets the conditions, like any standard. Of course, we can talk about what to improve, what to change, but the current form is quite fundamentally improving the situation in the area of pathological play and introducing effective regulation. Not only in the area of blocking illegal sites. Let us look at this law comprehensively, not only from the point of view of the Internet. And in this respect it must be said that this standard, this law is good and improves the situation in the field of pathological play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u55	Thank you, too. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I will ask the Minister, or both rapporteurs, that is to say, Mr Volný and Mr Bendl, whether they want final words. [[They don't.]] Nay, nay, nay. In that case, we will vote on individual amendments. I ask the rapporteur to inform us of the procedure and then to present individual proposals and to give us opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u56	Hello, coworkers and colleagues, I will take up an ungrateful task to guide you through this complex, long procedure. The Committee on Budgets proposed a voting procedure at its 37th meeting on 16 March. I only have two such details for this procedure: points 1 and 2 of points C3 and I begin to vote. It is therefore not from the "A', as usual, and this is because, during the second reading, amendments have been read which fundamentally change or replace already approved amendments by the Committee on Budgets under A. Therefore, in order to simplify and make this procedure more transparent, the Committee decided to adjust the procedure accordingly. I do not know, and I will ask the House, through Mr President, if I am to read the procedure forward before we vote on it, I am sure it is all on your desk. But if the House wishes it, I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u57	So the chairman of the ODS club nods that he wishes the procedure to be read whole. So please guide us through the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u58	Okay. We will be the first to vote on Amendment C, the second to vote on the amendment under -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u59	I'm sorry, rapporteur, I have a C3 written here. So just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u60	C3, sorry, yes. [[Thank you.]] Subsequently - the second vote will be the amendment under I, that is Mr Holeček's amendment. We will then vote on all the points covered by point A, with the exception of those which have not been excluded by the vote on the first and second points or are not voteable. The fourth vote will be the letter B of colleague Stanjura. The fifth vote will be the vote on amendments under letters C1 and C2, that is the amendment that I tabled as rapporteur. If this is voted on, there will be no voting point H2. The sixth vote is the vote on point D1, which is the amendment by Mr Farský to so much discussed Internet blocking. [[unintelligible]] Proposals D1 and D2 are alternative, if D1 is accepted it is unvoting D2 and vice versa. The proposal relating to the amendment under letter C in the Houses of the Press 580. That is, where reference is made to this point, if neither of these amendments is adopted, then, in essence, the Houses of the Press of 580 will vote on this amendment as negative. The seventh vote is the vote on another proposal from Mr Farský, a related alternative D2. The eighth vote will be the vote on Mr Hovorka's amendments, it is F1 and F2, it is one vote, because these amendments are closely related. Ninth vote - again, Mr Hovorka's amendment, it is F3. The tenth vote will be F4 and F5, once again, Mr Hovorka, with one vote, because he is an integral whole. Let's take a vote until...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u61	I'm asking for peace on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u62	Subsequently, the block of Mr Fiedler's amendments will be the eleventh vote G1, the twelfth vote G2, the thirteenth vote G3 and G4, related, therefore at once, the fourteenth vote G5, G6, the fifteenth vote G7, the sixteenth vote G8, G14 to G17, the next vote, the seventeenth vote is G9, the eighteenth vote G10, the nineth vote will be G11 and G12, these are related laws, or the amendments which will be voted together, the twentieth vote will be G13, the twenty-first vote will be G18, the G19 will be one vote, as they form an integral whole, the twenty-second vote will be G20, the twentieth third vote G21, the twenty-fourth vote G22, the twentieth vote will be G24, the twenty-seventh vote will be G25, G26, G29 and G30, these amendments by Mr Fiedler form an integral whole, so they will vote together. The 28th vote will be Amendment G27 and G28, once again an integral whole of both amendments. This has exhausted Mr Fiedler's amendments. Mr Vilímec's amendments are coming up, it is the twenty-nineth vote under H1 and the thirtyth vote under H2; if proposal C1 and C2 were adopted, the H2 proposal is unvoting. And the last vote will be taken by voting thirty-one on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u63	Yes. Thank you for suggesting a procedure. There is an interest in speaking from President Stanjura, so please give him a seat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u64	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for the rapporteur on the proposals made by my colleague Farský. I understand that when C1 passes, it's unvoting C2, it's totally - D1, it's unvoting D2 because it's a variant, but then the rapporteur said a sentence for me that I didn't understand. He says: If neither D1 nor D2 passes, then the House must vote negatively. I didn't understand what he meant at all, if he could explain it to us. Just at that point. I have no problem with the rest of the procedure. I really didn't get that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u65	Yes. I ask the rapporteur to clarify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u66	I don't think you really understand. I told you. It was about the vote, I have it written in the procedure, I didn't have to say it. I said it. There's a 580 print that's basically related to these points, and if this isn't voted out, then basically the 580 print should be negative, because there's actually a reference in the implementation - but I don't have to say it like I didn't, I just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u67	I believe that the House will deal with this in the context of the press hearing of 580, but, of course, if President Stanjura wants to speak, he can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u68	I can almost understand it now, but, Mr President, we have had a debate here on three points at once, even though we have not brought it together. Then these chaos arise. Now we are voting on the Houses of the Press 578 and we are free to decide on this press and we are free to decide on 580. There is something else if the rapporteur then says in the press 580 that something is unvoting. I understand that. Otherwise, the House of Sovereigns can decide on any bill. It is only for the future that it would be good to merge the debate, as we did in the first and second reading, because even individual speakers also talked about tax rates and now we are talking about the Houses of the Press 580. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u69	Yes. I think this is clear, and we're gonna figure this thing out under paragraph 159, which is printing 580. There are no more speeches on the procedure, but given how difficult it is, I'm going to put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this draft procedure. Who's against it? The vote has number 37, registered is 176, for 171, against no one. The draft procedure has been accepted. I'll pass the proceedings on and we'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u70	Thank you. So I am opening the vote and it is vote number one, it is Amendment C3, which was tabled by Mr Volný. Opinion of the Budget Committee - Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u71	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 38, registered 176 present, for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u72	This makes A6 to A12 and A19 to A21 unvoting. The second vote is letter I. It is Mr Holeček's amendment. The Committee on Budgets recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u73	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 39, registered 176 present, for 158, against 13. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u74	Thank you. This has become an unvoting amendment under A5. We are approaching the third vote and it is a block of amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets, and it is all A points except for the points that have become unvoted since the vote in paragraphs 1 and 2, which means that this is point A1 to A18 - the same proposal. If A1 to A18 is voted, it becomes unvoting E1 and E2 which are the same as these A points. That is why I am voting on the amendments under A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u75	Mr rapporteur, I will begin the vote if you will allow me to do so. [[Fun.]] I would like to hear the committee's position and then the minister's. [[Rapporteur: Yes, the committee recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 40, to which 176 are registered, for 174, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u76	Thank you. The vote on points A1 to A18 has become unvoting points E1 and E2. As the fourth vote, we are going to vote on the amendment under point B. It is the amendment by Mr Stanjura. The Committee on Budgets shall have an opinion which is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u77	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 41, registered 176 present, for 35, against 92. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u78	The next vote is the fifth vote, and it is Mr Volný's amendment, and it is under C1 and C2. Opinion of the Budget Committee - Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u79	I'm asking for the Minister's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 42, registered 176 present, for 154, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u80	Thank you. Since voting for these amendments, the number of H2 becomes unvoting. The next vote, the sixth vote, we will vote on the amendment by Mr Farský, and it is item D1. Option 1. D - variant 1. Negative. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u81	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 43, registered 174 present, for 35, against 79. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u82	In the next vote, the seventh vote, we will vote on paragraph D of my colleague Farský - the second option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u83	Committee opinion? [[Negative.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 44. Registered 173 present, for 33, against 92. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u84	We are now launching amendments from the G block of Mr Karel Fiedler. We're starting with the eleventh vote, and it's -- sorry, back. We are voting the eighth vote of Mr Hovorka, and it is Amendment F1 and F2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u85	Committee opinion? [[Negative.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 45-order vote. Registered 175 present, for 32, versus 80. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u86	As a ninth vote, again, Mr Hovorka's amendment is under F3. Budget Committee - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u87	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 46. Registered 176 present, for 40, against 83. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u88	As the tenth vote, we will vote again on the amendments by Mr Hovorka, they are related, therefore, suddenly on F4 and F5. Opinion of the Budget Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u89	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 47. Registered 176 present, for 38, versus 78. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u90	Thank you. The eleventh vote in which we will vote on the amendments under the letter G by Mr Karel Fiedler. We are the first to vote on the amendment under G1. Budget Committee - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u91	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 48. Registered 176 present, for 36, versus 114. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u92	Under the letter, under number 12, in vote number 12, we will vote on the amendment under letter G2. Budget Committee - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u93	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 49. Registered 176 present, for 37, versus 128. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u94	As a 13th vote, Amendment G3 and G4 will again be related amendments, therefore together. Budget Committee - negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 50-order vote. Registered 176 present, for 38, versus 128. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u96	The 14th vote will again be related amendments on the amendment by Mr Fiedler G5 and Mr G6. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u97	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 51. Registered 176 present, for 38, versus 125. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u98	We will now vote on Amendment G7. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u99	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 52, to which 176 are registered, for 39, against 131. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u100	The sixteenth vote will be on amendments G8, G14 to G17. These are once again related amendments. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u101	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 53, to which 176 are registered; for 36, against 129. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u102	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment G9. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u103	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 54. Registered 176 present, for 38, against 130. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u104	The 18th vote will once again be Mr Karel Fiedler's amendment under number G10. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 55-order vote. Registered 176 present, for 35, versus 131. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u106	The 19th vote is on amendments G11 and G12, related amendments. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u107	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 56. Registered 176 present, for 36, versus 128. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u108	The 20th vote will be on point G13. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u109	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 57-order vote. Registered 176 present, for 32, versus 129. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u110	We will vote on the related amendments by Mr Karel Fiedler G18 and by the G19 on the twenty first vote. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u111	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. The vote is with order number 58, registered 176 present, for 36, versus 127. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u112	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment G20. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u113	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 59, registered 176 present, for 36, against 130. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u114	The twenty third vote will be on the amendment under G21 and the Committee on Budgets does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u115	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 60, registered 176 present, for 34, against 124. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u116	The twenty-fourth vote will be on Amendment G22 and the Committee on Budgets does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u117	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's vote number 61, registered 176 present, for 35, versus 131. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u118	We will now vote on the amendment under G23. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u119	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's vote number 62, registered 176 present, for 36, versus 131. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u120	The twenty-sixth vote will be on Mr Karel Fiedler's amendment under G24. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u121	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's vote number 63, registered 176 present, for 35, versus 131. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u122	We will vote on the related amendments registered under G25, G26, G29 and G30. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u123	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 64, to which 176 are registered, for 37, against 129. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u124	As the last of Mr Karel Fiedler's bloc, we will vote on the amendments referred to in points G27 and G28. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u125	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's vote number 65, registered 176 present, for 36, versus 133. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u126	Finally, we come to point H. These are the amendments tabled by Mr Vilímec, and under number 29, we will vote on Amendment H1. The Committee on Budgets recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u127	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 66, to which 177 are registered, for 108, against 48. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u128	Since point H2 has become unvoted by our fifth vote on points C1 and C2, which have been approved, we have therefore fully exhausted the amendments and can proceed to the vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u129	Before we do so, with priority rights, Vice-President of TOP 09, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u130	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, let me ask for a five-minute break before the final vote for the TOP 09 and the Mayors' meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u131	Yes, I'm declaring a break, and I'll meet you here at 11.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u132	Dear colleagues, it is 11.05 and we will continue our adjourned negotiations. Before we proceed to the final vote, I am registering here an application with the priority right of Mr Kalousek. [[The noise in the hall.]] I will ask my colleagues to take their seats, to keep our voices down, so that we can continue our negotiations. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time since November 1989 that a free media censorship authority will be entrusted. Unfortunately, any website could theoretically be blocked by the decision of the Ministry of Finance's office. We will know the effects of this decision over the next few weeks, months and years. And if this is agreed, there will be a little less freedom in this country. In addition to this controversial paragraph, that law is basically a modern regulatory standard that we would like to support. We have even supported Mr Hovorka's amending tightening proposals. But we are unable to add our votes to the bill, which will result in the censoring of a free medium by an official of the Ministry of Finance. We couldn't explain that to our children, let alone our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u134	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u135	Thank you for the floor. I would simply briefly describe our position and our decision in the vote on the overall proposal for this law. We have supported and supported the proposals made by Mr Farský. And it's a shame we didn't convince you that it's good to trust the court's jurisdiction. We weren't opposed to blocking online gambling sites, illegal gambling. We wanted it to be a modern, normal, democratic, entrusted court. Unfortunately, the Chamber of Deputies decided otherwise. However, I want to say that the positives of the law prevail from our point of view. We have decided to support this in the final vote. At the same time, I would like to ask you to evaluate the effectiveness of the step that you have approved so that the Ministry of Finance can block the site. I think it's wrong. And I believe we'll be back to that in a year or two, and we'll convince you that it's much better to entrust this institute to independent courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-001-157.u136	Thank you. That was a priority right. And now, given that all amendments have already been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on gambling under House press 578 as approved by the Chamber of Deputies'. I'll ask the committee's opinion. [[Rapporteur Free: Recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Before I vote, I'll have you all checked out. I'd like you to register with your cards again. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 67, registered 175 present, for 149, against 2. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of the discussion of this point. [[Let's hear it from the center of the room.]] Before you go any further, I'm reading an apology. For reasons of work, today's meeting from 10 to 11 am, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes. Next, we'll continue with the point.
