ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u1	58. Government bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 927/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the bill. Before I give her my word, I will ask Mr Josef Uhlík to take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. I'll ask the House for some peace. I understand that, after the approval of the state budget, the atmosphere is excited, but please, the discussions concerning the budget, in the foyer, the discussions that are not related to the construction law, also in the foyer, and here we will have only the building law. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the amendment to the law of construction and the debate on this law will also be most excited, because, as we have also heard today, this is the most crucial law of this government and of this coalition. On 21 September 2016, the Government, by its Resolution No 828, approved a draft law amending Law No 828. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations, the so-called Building Act, as amended. Here, for information, is 44 of the related special legislation. It's over 40 amending laws, which basically means that all departments were involved through these technical changes to the amendment to the construction law. The draft of this law was prepared on the basis of the Czech Government's programming statement and the legislative work plan of the Government. Let me mention the most key changes this amendment contains. First of all, let me state that although this law is called a construction law, it is a law on spatial planning, which means urban planning, regions and the state, tracking. We have urban planning, we have the principles of regional development and we have the so-called territorial development policy. Another part of this law concerns the construction order. I will mention in both of these parts of the construction law the most key changes and of course the benefits. First of all, I would like to introduce you to the key changes that are being planned on the territorial section and which have been approved by the government. The following changes are taking place. The amendment will substantially reduce the acquisition of updates to regional development principles and changes to territorial plans and regulatory plans if there is no need to address the change in variants. The phase of the assignment will also be discarded and the stage of the joint negotiations with the institutions concerned and the public consultation will be merged. This will save about 3/4 years, while no one will be reduced to their rights. In the case of line constructions for which it can be demonstrated that it is objectively impossible to place it in the corridor defined in the zoning plan, for example on the basis of geological survey or other relevant survey, it will be possible, on the basis of a decision of the Regional Authority, to leave the corridor in unbuilt territory. This is very beneficial for the construction of motorways. This will remove the need for a change in the territorial plan before the implementation of the line construction and in these cases, according to our estimates, the implementation will accelerate by about two years. The zoning authorities will be responsible for coordinating the projects when they, as the authorities concerned, issue binding opinions with regard to the compliance of the projects with the state policy of territorial development, as well as the territorial planning documentation, as well as with regard to the implementation of the objectives and tasks of territorial planning. They will now decide in one territory and place constructions in different construction offices, from ministries to construction offices in municipalities. There is only one territory, and it is therefore necessary to ensure coordination of these projects. Since it is not realistic for each municipality to have a regulatory plan for part of its territory in addition to the zoning plan, the municipal council will be allowed to decide on the acquisition of a territorial plan with elements of the regulatory plan. That has not been possible yet. The situation is also being removed when the authorities concerned dictated their demands without justifying these requirements and sticking to the authority in their law of what they can do. Issues of opinions on measures of a general nature and binding opinions applied in administrative proceedings will be adapted in Section 149 of the Administrative Code. The condition for the entry into force of the update or amendment of the land planning documentation will be the publication of its full version of the update or change due to the removal of doubts in deciding what is valid, which is also very advantageous. [[18.00 hours]] The territorial study will also be able to be processed by the investor, due to the acceleration of the preparation of the territory for the implementation of the plans for the implementation of the change in the territory. The approval of this study will be left to the zoning authority. Information on the territory that is collected for its needs will be released for the entire public administration, i.e. State and territorial public administration, all self-governments. The time limits for submitting proposals for review or repealing measures of a general nature shall be reduced to one year, which shall be two years from the date of its entry into force, identical to all measures of a general nature. Territorial planning documents will be mandatory, and all of them, published on the Internet. It also eliminates the situation in which the authorities concerned dictated their demands without justifying these requirements and sticking to the authority in their law of what they could do. The bill was prepared with an effort to contribute precisely to simplification in all stages of construction preparation and implementation, i.e. placement, authorisation and approval. These are three processes dealing with all decisions, all parts of the permit under the construction procedure. In the area of territorial decision-making and building rules, the priority is the introduction of a completely new joint procedure which will enable the investor to assess the location and permit of the building in one procedure and to obtain one permit for the construction or set of buildings also in cases where the different jurisdiction of the construction offices is currently preventing it. In addition, an environmental impact assessment will also be carried out at the same time, so-called EIA, if required. I consider the proposed regulation of joint management to be the maximum that could be achieved while maintaining the current public administration organisation and within the format of the amendment, not the draft new law, which the Ministry of Regional Development is also preparing at the moment. The amendment to the construction law does not interfere in any way with the number of existing municipal construction offices. In the future, we count and expect to clarify their administrative districts, by implementing decree by the Ministry for Regional Development. It is also understandable that the general criticism of the lengthy preparation of buildings focuses on the construction law, because it is built according to the construction law, but many buildings are subject to different laws. From the investor's point of view, of course, the construction law represents the final phase of the authorisation process. Next to the construction law, i.e. the general regulation is a number of other, special laws that govern the authorisation of special buildings, the protection of individual public interests or have an additional link to the construction law. The modifications made in the construction law required, as I have already mentioned, changes in more than 40 laws, e.g. Act 416 on speeding up construction of the road, rail and energy network, and even the upper law, even the law on spa. These are all changes that are brought about by the amendment to the Construction Act. The proposal submitted to you is compatible with European Union law. Although the proposal of the amendment in its original form by the Ministry of Regional Development and the way it was prepared in cooperation with the inter-ministerial working group, and also with you - and for that I would like to thank many of you, members of all political clubs, because from each club I was nominated by one or two persons, with whom we discussed at all the skeleton of the amendment to the Construction Act. And here I have to say that this helped the Ministry of Regional Development very much before we put this law into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and, of course, other debates. Although the government has decided on some fundamental issues and, consequently, contradictions differently than the ideas of the Ministry for Regional Development have just been, this amendment is a strong and really another step towards improving the situation. The bill contains a number of tools to help speed up the preparation, placement and approval of buildings, as well as to improve the investment environment and increase the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, especially our companies. Now allow me a brief information on the changes in the EIA law, i.e. in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where the Ministry of the Environment is a co-president of this Act. Although the original aim was to implement the transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU, which was revised by Directive 2011/92/EU, so-called The EIA Directive, already in the framework of the proposed amendment, in view of the very tense timetable and scope of the provisions to be transposed in the framework of the amendment to the EIA Act, could not be inserted into the amendment to the Construction Act. The transposition of the revised EIA Directive will therefore be carried out by the Ministry of the Environment by a separate amendment, which will also include further adjustments reflecting the effort to simplify and shorten the EIA process. The amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act follows the amendment of the Construction Act, which introduces territorial proceedings with an environmental impact assessment and a common territorial and construction procedure with an environmental impact assessment. These are very complex names, but they are the names proposed by the Legislative Council of the Government, where the name of one authorisation procedure or one coordinated procedure was excluded. This is therefore a joint procedure with an assessment of the EIA. The principle is set up so that the application with one dossier will be submitted to the construction office and the construction office will ensure, in close cooperation with the evaluating EIA authority, an assessment of the environmental impact of the construction project in the first phase and in the second phase only place the construction, or. It's okay. At the meeting of the Government on the contradictions on 21 September, a contradiction on the number of signatures was also resolved. Here, I'd like to inform you. It is, of course, part of the bill, but I think it is important to mention this here. These are signatures in so called. supporting the signing document, when the option of increasing the number of signatures over 500 persons won instead of today's request of 200 signatures. At the same time, the draft law is newly limited to 18 months from the date stated in the title of the Charter, which may be minor changes, but these are very important changes precisely for obtaining EIA opinions. I'd like to thank you for your attention. I am, of course, ready for a very detailed debate in committee meetings and with my colleagues. I am very aware of the seriousness of this novel. And as I have already mentioned, the ambitions of the Ministry for Regional Development were much greater. And I know there's an appeal to one contact point, one building office, but it must be subject to a change in the law of competence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u3	I thank Minister Karla Šlechtová for her opening words on such an important proposal. And before the rapporteur speaks, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Květa Matušovská for personal reasons from 18:00. Now, then, the rapporteur, Josef Uhlík, with his news report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, members of the government - two, yes, are members of the government... The Ministry of Regional Development presents us with an extensive proposal for the amendment of the construction law and 43 other related regulations. The material is presented on the basis of the Government's programming declaration and is one of the largest in terms of impact size. The main objective of the amendment is to simplify the possibility of planning, preparing and implementing buildings, provided that the quality of these processes is maintained or improved. The amendment contains a number of technical changes, the necessary addition and specification of the existing law. Many changes are based on the need for transposition and implementation of European Union legislation. The scope of the novel's shots, the complexity of the problems and the different views of the various departments on the matter demonstrates the preparation of hundreds of essential comments in the inter-ministerial proceedings and the tri-negotiation in the Legislative Council of the Government. The government also discussed the material twice and resolved a number of fundamental contradictions. It follows from the above that we, too, in the Chamber of Deputies, are facing a difficult continuation of the legislative process. Just for the sake of the application of the amendment of the law of several ministries, I assume that the proposal will be discussed in a number of committees. The amendment, of course, also brings the positives that will at least bring partial relief to the construction sector. Madam Secretary has listed a number of them here, so I won't repeat them, I have them listed here. As I have already said, the changes to the construction law will affect 43 other standards. The most significant concerns the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where Law No. 39/2015, so called. the EIA infringement amendment. Unfortunately, new European legislation is not included in the amendment, i.e. Directive 2014/1952, which the Minister also mentioned. This amendment is to be transposed under legislation into our law until 16. 5. 2017. [[18.10 hours]] I will mention that the proposal for amendment is necessary in many respects, and many changes bring at least partial simplification for the construction sector. That's why I'm in favour of releasing the novel for second reading. However, it cannot be argued that the bill would provide a fundamental conceptual simplification and shortening of the permitted processes. As the Minister mentioned here, the MMR tried, but in some cases it ran into other ministries again. It also contains a number of provisions that need to be taken into consideration in the committees and, where appropriate, supplement the draft law with amendments. As I have already looked into the system, five amendments are already included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which we have five written applications. The very first is registered by Mr. Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Secretary, we have been impatiently waiting for an amendment to the Construction Act for more than a year. Anyone who has ever built anything in his life must know the bureaucracy associated with the location of the building and the building management. I personally welcomed the Minister's introduction as one of the main benefits of the amendment to simplify the authorisation procedure for small builders, i.e. for people who want to build a family house or maybe make some building modifications in the apartment. That is why I quickly looked into the amendment to the construction law, what changes it brings for small builders. When we look at the sections that are crucial especially for small builders, i.e. § 79 para. 2 and in Section 103, we do not see practically any substantial changes. The exception from the territorial and construction proceedings is newly reached by a fence up to two meters high if it does not sit with the public space and if it is in a built-up area. This may look like simplification at first glance, but only if it's a fence between neighbors who can make a deal. If you encounter a troublemaker who works on purpose, on the contrary, you will miss the assistance of the building office. Another simplification should be that territorial decisions and building permits will not be required for sales stands and ceremonial decorations of buildings unless they are placed for more than 30 days. That sounds like God, but why 30 days? Why not 45 or 60? It is obviously the intention of the promoter to facilitate the installation of Christmas decorations in cities and municipalities, but he lacks the support in practice. Other exceptions have been obtained by smaller agricultural structures, as well as flagpoles up to 8 metres above, see Section 103 letter. (e) point No 19. The amendment actually forgives the building permit or an announcement of the mast above 8 meters. If you want the mast shorter, you must ask for a building permit or an announcement. Buildings for housing and family recreation with an area above 150 square meters will be newly possible based on announcements. That has not yet been possible. However, documentation from an authorized person will always be needed for territorial proceedings, the comments of the authorities concerned and the parties to the proceedings will be necessary. The construction procedure lasts a month to two; the construction office should issue a building approval within 15 days upon notification. However, the construction office will have to assess the construction as well, i.e. to examine all the requirements of the applications. Building agencies will be overwhelmed and let us not make any big illusions about meeting certain deadlines. Building family houses on an announcement and without housewarming can act as a great step. But I'm wondering if there's any way to draw a mortgage on these buildings. Thus, if small civil builders, who rarely finance building a house without bank credit, are interested in such simplification. After all, banks will undoubtedly require documentation or proof of completion of the construction. And it's gonna be necessary to hire at least an authorized inspector to make some paper, and that paper's gonna cost again. Is it simplistic? Not many people build without credit, and not every bank gives you a loan without a building permit. Although the amendment regulates the procedure for declaring the construction provided for in § 105, it does not confer any significant advantage and loss of paperwork for either the building office or the builders. To sum up the comments on the amendment regarding the very small builders, I think we have a bill before us which does not substantially simplify the requirements for builders and the relevant official processes. I understand that the interests of the various ministries played an important role in discussing the amendment. However, it is also obvious that it will be necessary to discuss the amendment in detail in the committees, as has been said here by a fellow rapporteur. However, in my view, it is a constructive solution to start working on comprehensive recodification of construction legislation with a clear assignment: simplifying and accelerating the respective authorisation processes. I therefore believe that the Chamber of Deputies should support such an assignment for the Government by adopting the accompanying resolution at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u7	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Mr Jan Klán will now take the floor, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u8	[[Puts a more bulky file on the speaker's counter.]] Thank you for the floor. Have a nice evening, Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Madam Secretary, Colleagues, Colleagues. So I finally got the new construction law, but I was surprised by its relatively thickness, how extensive it is and how many different laws will be adapted in it. Well, that surprised me quite a bit. It's a rather complicated material. I'm not saying that the law itself is a bit long, but as it has implications everywhere, it's spreading quite a lot. You know, I've had an opinion drawn up by a building office in a small village, so they also look at the issue from a different perspective, from their practice, and what they expect from that law. Then, of course, I will ask the Minister a few questions about line construction, possibly small construction offices. But now I'm going to read you the position I received from one of the construction offices. The proposed amendment was intended to simplify, clarify and accelerate the approval of buildings, because these processes are one of the slowest in our country compared to neighbouring countries. However, in the view of the construction office, the proposal for an amendment will not bring about a visible acceleration or simplification. The prepared amendment to the Construction Act is the second extensive amendment since the validity of the new Act No. 183/2006. If I remember correctly, the last big amendment to the construction law took place in 2011, 2012 in the last parliamentary term, when I was here too. So we've been dealing with this for quite a while and a long time. The main novelty in this amendment to the Construction Act is called. coordinated management, which combines territorial management, building management and the process of assessing the environmental impact of the construction EIA. We welcome this idea because it is heading for one building to receive one permit at one office. In our view, the coordinated permit for the proceedings is not fully drawn up by the fact that there are still special construction offices between which the state administration is breaking down. We believe that the fundamental obstacle to speeding up the purchase of permits is the lack of definition of rights so-called. the public authorities concerned and the parties to the proceedings. The persisting infamous system of many doors, in which the builder himself ensures the opinions of various public authorities, leads to the fact that the factual decision on the construction plan has moved outside the construction offices. These are just some postmen of the binding opinions of other authorities concerned, whose demands continue to branch and chain among themselves. Let me give you an example. In addition to the binding opinion of the authorities of the protection of the agricultural original fund, the opinion of the fire protection authority, the opinion of the public health authority must obtain a permit to enter the building plot, which must be obtained in advance by the owner of the communication, for which the communication administrator and the position of the Police of the Czech Republic must be prepared. This chain will take many months in practice. The management is therefore inherently uncoordinated between the different interests of different institutions. Although the proposed amendment to the construction law will bring a slight improvement, it did not contribute to resolving the core of the problem. [[18.20 hours]] Another area of significant delays in constructions, which has become a specialization for some participants, is the appeal against the issued decision, where no deadlines are respected and can delay the implementation of the construction by its repetition for up to several years. [[which:]] This is also quite common in our conditions. This problem is also relatively unsolved from the point of view of time in the novel. Another problem, in our view, is that the existing building law has too wide a number of forms of building authorisation, and this is even enlarged by the proposal of the amendment. We believe that too wide a range of options will lead to confusion, greater risk of error, and thus slowing down the process. In the large amendment to the construction law, we also lack the definition of the built-up area, which according to current legislation includes, for example, a larger ledge of the house. If there is a house on the street line, the built-up area hits the street and should thus appear in a cadastral map, which is a nonsense solution. Furthermore, we are terrified of changes in special legislation, which will trigger this big amendment to the construction law. This is the opinion of one smaller construction office in one smaller city. I also want to touch the line constructions. That is why I will, of course, recommend that this draft law be discussed by the Economic Committee, because it is better dealt with than the Public Administration Committee, which will be the Guarantee Committee. What about the mischief? By what time will they be able to express themselves in the process? Is it gonna be once and for all, or are they gonna be able to enter that permit more times? This is one thing I'm quite interested in, because often it's the kind of mischief they hold up, sometimes even deliberately delay, the construction of motorways or expressways, railway lines and anything else. The Minister said in her speech that this law would not affect small construction offices. But I'd like to hear if it really doesn't touch them. I fear that somewhere in that law, because there are quite a lot of laws changing, it will be hidden somewhere, that small construction offices will be eliminated in the very small municipalities. There's been that attempt to disrupt these little construction agencies once before. [[The Minister's on the right.]] Oh, it still is. Madam Secretary tells me it's still there. So, of course, I am opposed to this, because moving the powers of small construction agencies, for example, to the construction authorities of municipalities with extended scope, does not solve anything. Of course, the argument that today we have digital technology, that we can communicate quite quickly is one thing, but those officials at the large construction office in the village with extended scope often don't even know what's going on in those small villages. So, in my opinion, it is better to maintain small construction offices. It's just my opinion, my view. Then for that reason, I say I'll keep an eye on the problem. Then, since it concerns, of course, the EIA, the environmental impact assessment of the construction, it would be worth it if the environmental committee also discussed it, because it will also enter into this process in some way. And as the amendment is very extensive, it is also necessary to discuss this in these committees to find different consensus. I originally considered that the term of 30 days should be extended under this law, but I will not do so. I won't do it. I'll leave it for a normal classic period of 60 days. Of course, this will make me more consistent in the discussion and I will look at the opinions of the individual building offices from small municipalities to, of course, the cities, as they look at the amendment, so that we can have a view here from practice itself. That's all I have to say in a nutshell. And then I'll wait for the secretary's answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u9	I thank Mr Jan Klán for his speech. Now, Mr Karel Rais. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, Members, first of all, I would like to follow up on what the Minister said. In the process of approving the Public Procurement Act, which falls fully within the competence of the Minister, I appreciated the process in particular the form of discussing the proposal when two Advisory Councils arose. One was politically oriented, it was politicians, and the other was more professionally oriented, there were representatives of various Stakeholders. Comments from both sides were then processed within the Ministry. I think the way is very exemplary. And I'm glad he's thinking that way, that he's going to move on. I find that very important to say at the beginning. As far as mine is concerned, I would say the content contribution, so it is oriented towards moving the time limit for the creation of land planning documentation, especially large cities, namely Brno, but as far as I have information, this applies to other large cities, because according to § 188 para. 1 of Law No. 183 construction law, as amended, urban plan approved before 1. 1. 2007 will expire on 1. 1. 2021, unless amended by a separate procedure pursuant to this amendment, shall be discussed and issued within the scope of the modification. The shift in time for the adaptation of the planning documentation addresses the problem of particularly large cities, as I said, which due to the laxity of the regions with the issue of superior documentation and the new decision-making practice of administrative courts cannot meet the legal obligations at the date originally proposed, and threatens to be without any valid territorial documentation from 2021. As an example, I can give an example of the statutory city of Brno, where the inaction of the authorities of the South Moravian Region played a negative role. The statutory city of Brno has a valid zoning plan of the city of Brno approved in 1994. But as I said before, there is a danger that it will cease to exist. The way the South Moravian Region worked, the organs were inactive, so I think it could also have been one of the reasons for the electoral fiasco of the current South Moravian regional nomenclature, which invested millions of crowns from state funds in their own electoral marketing with the former governor Michal Hašek today, and yet due to normal voters in the South Moravian Region, it did not win and failed completely. The reason for introducing a time-limit for the effectiveness of territorial plans was that earlier territorial plans do not meet today's needs and must be replaced by new territorial plans and regulatory plans. The natural prerequisite was that the acquisition of territorial plans, including urban planning, was possible and always feasible in real time. However, at the time when the time limits of the territorial plans were laid down in the law, the review of the territorial plans by the administrative courts had not yet worked. [[Loading?]] This did not really work until 2011, which substantially modified the practice of spatial planning. Incomparable compared to the past are two key factors in particular - the period of acquisition of the zoning plan, in the past it was approximately two years, at present it is about five or six years for large cities, and secondly the fact that the intentions of republical importance must first be enshrined in the regional planning documentation, the so-called principles of territorial development of the ZÚR, otherwise threaten the abolition of the zoning plan by the court. In addition, in the case of the city of Brno, the superior principles of the territorial development of the South Moravian Region, which do not exist until now, have been abolished, so that even the new zoning plan of the city of Brno could not be completed. The blocking, temporal and legal circumstances were not known at the time of the introduction of the time limits for the territorial plans. The combination of both of these factors means a huge time lag that will not allow the preparation of a new zoning plan to be made. And there is, as I mentioned earlier, a serious risk that the city of Brno will be without a zoning plan from 2021 onwards. It should be noted that the real shift in the date of the amendment to the Construction Act is the only way to prevent the expiry of the zoning plan. For the reasons set out above, it is logical that I have prepared an appropriate amendment to correct that error in the process of preparing the amendment. That is what I have done and, of course, as part of my second reading, I will apply to my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u11	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his speech. We will continue the discussion by speaking to Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u12	Good day, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I'm not gonna repeat what's already been done here. The material is really extensive, it has about 800 pages of text, it changes 40 other laws. In this respect, given that Christmas holidays are coming to us by the time of the hearing, I am not entirely sure that we should not change the time of discussion, rather that we should consider extending the time for negotiations by 30 or, alternatively, by at least 20 days, because it would be worth it even after all, the experience we have with the Public Procurement Act, which was also a complicated standard, that it would be worth a seminar, or a debate at least on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, or with other committees, with interested committees if the Chamber of Deputies had an obligation to express or discuss their committees. The bill is basically three huge areas in one. Territorial planning, building rules and EIA. The system is trying to put pressure on shortening the deadlines for the decision by actually shortening, simplifying and accelerating, but in terms of what territorial plans will look like, what they look like, I'm afraid there will be no superabbreviation because there will be pressure on the quality of the zoning plan. It's a matter of details as to how they're going to be there or not. The number of government bodies concerned, the number of constructions concerned to be expressed, remains the same. Moreover, their opinions will be binding and may also conflict with one opinion with another and may be excluded, which will be reflected in the preparation of the zoning plan itself or in its existence and the necessary changes before anyone gets a building permit at all or even gets to the building authorisation process, so there will be a huge problem here at the beginning which will make it difficult for the construction authorities to be able to navigate the issue at all. As far as the EIA is concerned, we all know that the EIA position will be binding. It will not be at all easy to negotiate, and at the moment when the position, even in the course of one procedure - which I support, because it will basically mean that with one and the same problem I cannot come into the territorial decision, into the building permit and into the EIA, I am rooting for the system that the reminder will simply be dealt with once, not several times with the appeal system, which was here, which we have criticized very much in the past. The truth is, and I don't know who said it in front of me, that, in principle, their own licensing system will be reduced, but it will drive the arguing out of the system. The builder will have to bypass all the affected, he will have to deal with them somehow, preferably drive himself there, bring everything to the construction office, so that he has the hope that if it can be either in a merged or at least in an integrated management system that the time will eventually be shorter. In small buildings, I may be rather optimistic, except for the details that my previous speakers have been talking about, and I am convinced that we are able to deal with this by law. It can work and thank God for that. For large buildings, I fear that the Czech Republic will not breathe too much and that it will be much more complicated and that the construction will not take much less time, because processes will take place outside the building authorisation system, where they will have to, and probably by initiative of builders or investors, if you wish to agree between the state authorities or the legal or natural persons concerned, and this will not be at all easy. In principle, the construction office will not help them, rather interrupt the construction proceedings and so on. I do not see much simplification in this regard. However, we should try to discuss the problem and find at least some options for change and shorten the discussion. I consider this bill to be important and necessary already because we have an approved law on the environmental impact of buildings and we need the building authorisation system not to remain stagnant in the form in which it is. They must be aware that there is a law on the impact on the building environment. In the materials that we received, which were really difficult to study, there are also things about the possibility of savings and necessary expenditures, increased governmentmandatory spending. I think savings could be argued with success because they are basically inconclusive. The numbers there are some statistical data, but the practice can be completely different, so I wouldn't even brag about numbers. If it's 400 miles, or 350, or 210, he's never really gonna count it. But what he's going to calculate will be the needs of the state to ensure the performance of state administration in this area, and there is an estimate that of the 846 or 842 full-time jobs that are at state level today, the number will have to increase by 156, which is roughly a quarter, a little less than a quarter, and it will take 136 miles to do so. CZK increase in the state's dictatorial expenditure, of which 35 million. The koruna will go at the expense of the local authorities. This may also need to be said here, so that the representatives of the cities and municipalities concerned, or the regions, know that these costs associated with the construction process are the result of the bill, and it will have to be answered in some way. I don't know if the state budget is responding, but I doubt it. As for the existence of special construction offices and their decisions, it is a good thing that the bill brings their duty to stick to territorial plans. That was not the case in the past, and I, as former mayor of Kladno, had a huge problem with it, because we didn't really have a chance to know how the approval procedure of the special authorities would end up, and they didn't have to take full account of the territorial plans, in their territory they were essentially doing what they wanted. It was also about the police and so on, where we didn't want to see the details, but we wanted to at least know what should or shouldn't be built on that territory, how it would look and so on. At the moment when we introduce the duty of special authorities to follow this zoning plan, that is certainly good news, I certainly wouldn't judge that badly. There is still something the Minister has not mentioned, but which is probably not irrelevant, and these are some of the options that are presented in the bills. One of the alternative solutions is the so-called abolition of the authorization of the capital city of Prague to issue construction regulations and the abolition of Prague construction regulations. You, who are probably concerned with the situation in Prague, will say that it is a great shame, because Prague could adapt its construction regulations to its needs, but since there is a big exchange of views today about what it is supposed to look like, perhaps a much simpler solution when the construction proceedings will be the same throughout the Czech Republic. Therefore, there will be no exceptions and the citizen will be better oriented in the authorisation procedure system, because there will simply be no exceptions like Prague today, which unfortunately cannot be used by its conflicts, which are inside them. And I am certainly saying for myself, unfortunately, because Prague was able to simplify its life and rather respond to the needs it has. [[18.40 hours]] I am not deliberately talking about the details of the individual sections, because I do not think that this is entirely part of the first reading, that we should use the debate on the committee to discuss the possible advantages and disadvantages of some of the sections. Nevertheless, I would ask the Minister whether she could provide us with materials relating to the settlement of the comments made by the various institutions concerned, which expressed their views on the law, so that we know what comments were accepted, which were not accepted, and for what reasons, so that we do not have to turn around or ask the same question twice. I guess that's it from my point of view. I recommend that this law be passed through the first reading and, at the same time, I will propose, in a detailed debate, an extension of the discussion of 30, alternatively 20 days for the reasons that I have mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u13	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Jan Zahradník, the last in writing entered into the debate, will now speak. I see another logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u14	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this law sets relatively ambitious objectives, whether from the point of view of the types of buildings to be dealt with, from the family house to the construction of a business centre, a third-class road, a motorway, to the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant, if our state decides to do so. And also, even though it cannot openly declare it on the outside, it clearly shows a wide range of relationships, whether relations between people or relationships between institutions, or relationships between individuals and some private, public, or state institutions. And again, these relationships may be of a different nature, whether relations between neighbors dealing with building permits for a family house, or some groups of activists defending the interests of a group of people, or maybe just the interests of their own, after international relations, as if it were in the case of the completion of the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. It is, of course, a pity that we do not have a completely new law here to address this issue in the green meadow again and which might be a modern building law addressing the very difficult problem of combining the speed of building permits and also combining this effort to speed with the efforts of the state authorities to meet all possible interests of complainants, entitled, less justified or even unauthorized. Of course, I had such an idea and I was looking forward to the fact that, under some other law, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was open, because I and other Members were among the proposers of the amendment to the Act on Impact Assessment, which was approved a year and a half ago, and which we had actually caused ourselves great traumas, which we were dealing with here from the point of view of building large buildings, from the point of view of creating new environmental assessments, and so far, what we may still be afraid of has not happened, namely, from those large buildings their part has been solved so far, about nine, an exception which may be fulfilled, has not yet been made new assessments that new EIA had been made on those buildings that had not yet been made in the narrow circle of nine buildings, for which derogations from the European Commission will be applied. I have not yet tried out how much strength we have given ourselves to all the various activists who can perform in the EIA process and who, in my view, can effectively defend the environmental impact assessment based on the existing EIA Act. That is why I welcome the opening of the law, and I also welcome the fact that the Ministry is trying in some way to define the position of non-profit organisations, NGOs, interest groups in some way more effectively, in some way more precisely. And here, of course, is the change of two numbers - 500 instead of 200, mentioned by the Minister, there is also a limited duration of this document for a year and a half. It's all welcome, of course. Of course, there are many other things. Historical associations of citizens, historical non-profit NGOs, which are sufficient for three years of existence. It is still the same problem that people who do not live in the region can decide on significant construction in the region, who have only the relationship with it, which is given some kind of activist interest. So it will be a second reading, of course I will think about what amendments I would put in it, and I would like to be able to consult with the rapporteur if I can also consult the Minister's colleagues, so that those proposals really are effective proposals that would define precisely the position of those NGOs, and also not only the powers conferred on these organisations, but also to be bound by certain precisely defined obligations. In conclusion, I would like to say that I thank the Minister, the Minister and all others who have participated in the development of this comprehensive amendment, which the Minister has before him, which has about 890 pages, and I hope that its discussion will speed up the course of the building process, will make the course transparent and, last but not least, predictable, so that whoever in good faith requests permission for his construction, knows that in some time soon his request will be dealt with in the interests of the public, but also in the interests of that particular person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u15	I thank Mr Zahradník. I now have Mr Radek Vondráček's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u16	Thank you, Mr President. In the light of the factual point, I would like to make a procedural proposal on behalf of the two parliamentary clubs, the Yes 2011 and the ČSSD movement, in order to be able to discuss this point to the end, we do not lack much to agree that we can still discuss the bill after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u17	Okay, thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we can vote without debate. I'll check you out first, of course. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Given that I do not have any other application, that any vote on this matter will not affect the length of the speeches, any final words made by the Minister and the rapporteur. [[He's laughing.]] We will decide on the procedural draft law negotiations after 7 p.m. in voting number 217, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 217, of the 110 present for 77, against 20. The motion was accepted. We can move on. I have no written application for a debate, but Minister Brabec reports with priority rights and then Mr František Laudát. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It'll be very short. I just wanted to confirm what was said here. As far as the EIA is concerned, what is currently in the construction law or in the novel is a certain little taste of what comes in the transposition novel. About that transposition novel where we're now finalizing the settlement of actually contradictions, there's going to be major changes. For example, a significant increase in the number of so-called Subliminal intentions. In other words, an absolutely fundamental number of projects that will not be re-evaluated under the EIA law. There will be a reduction of at least a month and a half in terms of simplifying the assessment. There will be new things that concern the validity and possibility of extending the EIA. We're going to discuss public access there again. This transposition amendment should come to the government by the end of November and subsequently to the House. This is a supplement to this information regarding the construction law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u19	Thank you. Now with priority right, Mr. František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm glad it finally got here. But we asked for it here urgently. It is a great pity that Minister Brabec, that he failed to bring an amendment to the EIA law at the same time. Anyway, I hope he gets to the House. And an ultimatum from us, if you remember, has in January next year. samý agreed to it himself and said the term was comfortable for him. I'm a little conflicted about the extension of the deadline. You yourself know that I made a proposal on the Gremium that this item should be classified firmly in order to discuss the first reading... [[In the government bench behind the speaker, the men speak. White boy with one of the MPs.]] Do you guys think you could stop that? It's disturbing me. Thank you. I don't consider any law that was here or which was still Babiš and Couples. He's going to, more important than this one. I hope to say that at this point, we are the biggest embarrassment with regard to transport construction throughout Europe. I do not know any country where there would be such a miserable situation in the construction of a new transport infrastructure, such as in the Czech Republic. Of course, I would ask very much of all those who deal with matters of spatial planning, transport construction, public administrative tasks when discussing the location of buildings, that you read the amendment thoroughly and that we unblock any other things that are there in any amendments qualified. I'm not so sure. I welcome the merged procedure. It will be a great step forward, because this has been very abused, for example, in the preparation of previously unrealistic parts of the Prague Circuit, and this is for example. defective orientation by several meters or tens of meters of corridors in territorial planning. So then it started all over again. Perhaps many millions went up, until some tens of millions to prepare documentation...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u21	I understand, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. Debates that do not concern the construction law, please in the foyer, so that we can finish this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u22	I understand to the left that her only joy is to give away the taxes that Babiš collects. But they don't care about this... Unlike you, I'm thinking about what to ride. And I'd like us to drive on modern roads. To run modern railroads here, which you don't care. You live from hand to mouth, day to day. I didn't. To get back to the matter. I would ask very much that you, what you have relations with different professional associations and so on - because I called them, however, have not yet arrived in addition to general lamentations that it took a long time, with which I agree. And it was Prime Minister Sobotka and his associates, because from the beginning he declared with Babiš that this was an absolute priority, but according to the way they treated the preparation of this law, it was probably not a priority. In time, whether it's 60 or 90 days, I'd like it to be Christmas, if it's 60 days. So we can just drive as fast as we can. Even if it succeeds, this parliamentary term probably doesn't mean that construction is going to be too much of a preparation anyway. If I take some implementing decrees, from the fact that it's probably going to return the Senate with some maybe some changelings. Here that there will be about quite a number, you could expect some amendments. And for the next one, please take a look at this... One last thing. I won't hold up. Even from the point of view of the fact that big cities should have the right to do their own construction business, it is not acceptable for me to Prague about this right, although now there are people unable to break quality building regulations, so it does not mean that Prague should lose it, because it could really cause damage to an unprecedented extent as regards the nature, image and genius of Prague. So I would ask very much to keep it there in any case, the condition is preserved. The question is whether there should be other statutory cities, so that it will always be a chance for at least the largest locations where there is some historical thread, so that there is no rapid development. The great potential that we have inherited, and we should give it to the followers in order, to preserve it. So that's just in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u23	I thank Mr František Laudát. I don't have another application for a debate. I'm done with the conversation. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary is ready. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the speeches that have covered many of the key issues that we have been debating for the last two years. First of all, I would like to comment on Prague so that it is really clear here. The government returned the authority of the capital city of Prague to the amendment to the construction law and this is how it came to you in the House. So Prague has authorization. We finally have the Prague construction regulations notified. So at this point, Prague is back. I voted only in favour of the government. The government outvoted me. It's in there. So much for Prague. As regards the various speeches made by Members. If you don't mind, I'd take it thematically, because there were a lot of topics. In the introduction, I would like to mention that it says that because of the amendment to the construction law, it cannot be built. But that's not true. It can be built at present. The amendment to the Construction Act is a bonus on the basis of which it will be built better. Here I would just like to mention that all the processes currently under way have been taking place since 2007, when the last major amendment to the construction law was. And that's how it's progressed. As regards the consultation of professional organisations. I would like to mention here that MMR, of course, did not write the novel itself. We discussed, and that was really thousands of hours, thousands of eyes, thousands of negotiations - probably not. Hundreds of meetings. Association of transport industry, its members, Chamber of Commerce, entrepreneurs, developers, investors, regions, cities, municipalities. So the novel went through a really big debate. And, of course, it is purely up to the Members and the Chamber of Deputies to see if, at this point, you can reopen the possibility of some secondary procedure among all the actors who have already spoken about it. [[19.00 hours]] I welcome Mr Bendl's proposal to carry out a seminar here. We don't have a problem with that. I will be happy to organise it, to invite all the groups that have been there, possibly, which - through the President, forgive me - we can recommend. We will explain and explain how the government voted on the key contradictions, because at the last meeting of the government after its interruption, we voted on about twenty contradictions where we had the argument, and I think that the Chamber of Deputies should perhaps know where the MMR is still not satisfied. The experts who participated with us in this amendment are on our side. Here is the question of water cannons for buildings and sets of buildings that water works should have been part of this very joint management. However, the government voted otherwise, or waterworks are not part of coordinated management. This is how the amendment came to the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, after all the debates in the committees, I will try to convince you that this is the right thing to do. We have legal analyses for this, however, with the Ministry of Agriculture we have various legal analyses, so it will then be up to you as legislators to really make the right decision and in the interests of building law in the Czech Republic. I'm ready with my colleagues to give you all the arguments. We care about the novel. We've done a lot of work with it. The negotiation was not easy at all, because, as I said, 44 laws, including this law, i.e. 43 changes, only if you take it, there are 17 members of the government, perhaps only the Prime Minister did not really have any comments about it, because he is not a petitioner of any law. Otherwise, every resort has a change of law. As far as Mr Petr is concerned about small buildings, there are advantages in those paragraphs from 100 above. I take note of what you mentioned here, but I would rather leave it here for committee discussions. As for the fences etc., on the contrary, we want to make their work easier for the construction authorities, so we have also put in those authorized inspectors who will already be responsible for the decision. He's going to report it to the construction office, and that's it for the construction worker. We're here to save work, time. We're doing this for the builders, not so that the construction office doesn't have a job, but also to focus on the big things and frankly not the conjecture between the neighbors. Let the courts handle that. As far as Mr Klán is concerned, as far as the joint proceedings are concerned, yes, this will bring time relief, for the sole reason of one appeal and one administrative action at the end of the joint proceedings. But here I want to inform you, honourable Chamber of Deputies, the MMR originally suggested that this be mandatory at that time, because, of course, it would make sense for certain types of buildings. After inter-ministerial discussions, it's not mandatory. So it's up to the builder whether he's gonna go through the split-up, that's three separates, or together. In any case, the unified coordinated joint management is beneficial for smaller buildings. Of course, it is better for the billion-dollar buildings that builders and investors not spend so much money on project documentation and that someone did not stop them at the end after many years, go through the separate process and go for example separate EIA and then join the territorial proceedings and building permits into one, because there is already more certainty. So it's just for the joint management. Here we are working very closely with the Ministry of the Interior on the administrative order, which, of course, is responsible for various things that are not in the MMR. But I would also like to discuss this with the committees, if you don't mind, so that we don't delay the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies in this late hour. As far as your comment is concerned - a small building office, I see a reminder of the cancellation. Yes, I was the one who brought it up. In the Czech Republic we have 720 construction offices including special ones, including all others. This amendment does not disturb any construction offices. The fact that I personally planned it into a new law, whose thesis on the comprehensive recodification of system building law in the Czech Republic has already been written, yes, there it is. But the preparation of the new law may be for five, eight years, so it's not in this novel. I guarantee that personally, because of course it was not of choice, it was not of the will of colleagues and it was not of the will of others. On the other hand, the question of construction officials - there I must say that, as a minister with the construction order of the Czech Republic, it bothers me very much, because the state transferred the transferred jurisdiction of the state to the municipalities many years ago. They have construction offices there, but the builder is employed by many percent at City Hall and another percent as a civil servant. Now, let's ask ourselves, isn't it a conflict of interest, for example, when he writes project documentation, then maybe he approves it, then he allows it, and in the end, collapses it? This is a matter I would very much like to address in this new law, not in this amendment. In this amendment, I take the task of training construction officials in particular. The Ministry of Regional Development as a state has jurisdiction over regional construction offices. Regional construction agencies have a competence towards lower levels. We have unit, doubles, triples, county authorities, and then we have MMR. Then we have railroad offices and other and other authorities. So we would also discuss the details on the committee, but thank you for your suggestions. I'm sure we can answer everything. As regards Mr Rais, the extension of the deadline to the zoning plans until 2031. I can see that Prague can't make it. I myself have been sending several letters to the City Council over the last two years, because the city's zoning plan for the capital city of Prague is simply not going well. I understand that the only thing about this is to change it in this law, but then let us ask ourselves whether this state has acted correctly towards the other 6.5 thousand municipalities that have paid for the territorial plans from the subsidies of the MMR, from the subsidies of the European Union. And at this point, about 4.5 thousand municipalities have that zoning plan, and by 2020, it can be assumed that there will be only four cities that can't do it. And three of them could do it. Here, of course, I would like to have this debate very intensively on the committees, because making exceptions in the construction law - just as I have maintained the law on public procurement, so I will try to maintain this law without any exceptions. Since 2007, all cities in the Czech Republic know that the deadline ends in 2020. If someone planned this wrong, they shouldn't just change the law. So, if you'd allow it, I'd leave it to the committees, too. Of course, there may be some objective facts about, for example, Brno - the transfer of the railway station, not the transfer of the railway station. We can talk about this, but because of two cities, I do not think that the Chamber of Deputies should make an exception in a building law that deals with something completely different or many other things. Sorry. As for the number of seats, the 155 - we claim 95 million and the Member is right, we did not get them. So, of course, I'm going to ask for extra budgetary measures from the law on the government, for this money that is not going into the MMR budget, but for the budgets of the very municipal ones within the RUD to go to the edge and to go to the municipal construction offices and the specials. And these are places in the territory, on the territorial public administration, on the construction offices, not on the places at the Ministry of Regional Development. At this point, I don't want any room for an MMR. There's a way we're gonna make it. I need to strengthen the construction authorities in the territory. Well, that's just an explanation. As regards the other matters referred to by Mr Bendl. Thank you for seeing that the three areas are effective. Of course, it should bring much positive. As for the quality of the zoning plans, we have also focused very much on the first part of this amendment, the zoning planning, the zúrk, the urban planning, which must simply be a condition for the construction process. Often this is not the case or there are various agreements. So this is a matter of whether, Mr President, you would allow us to discuss this in detail on the committees, because we have been dealing with this very closely. Thank you for considering this law important. Thank you for the comments, I'm delighted. I'd like to mention a few more things here. Whatever this law is to be judged by any committee, given that this law has, of course, been drawn up by the Ministry of Regional Development in cooperation with the co-president, I would like to inform you and, at the same time, I am asking my colleagues, all the ministers involved, particularly transport, the Ministry of Agriculture, to take part in these committees with me, because I am covering it, however, the special offices are at all these five other departments, and it is necessary. Furthermore, I would like to say here that I would be very happy to invite individual entrepreneurs to these debates in this seminar, so that they themselves can express how they see this amendment. Thank you for the suggestions, and I would like to end my final word, which I have been pointing out for about a quarter of an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u25	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. I still have a note from Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Now, the rapporteur's final word, and I would like to sum it up. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u26	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, I won't hold up. I would like to thank all those discussing material contributions. I'm sure I'm interrogating for a seminar and moving the law to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u27	Thank you. After the final words, we can deal with the commandment proposal, because no motion to return or reject has been made. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote the order number 218, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 218, from the present 117 for 112, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees, but I see the applications for the debate. My colleague, Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u28	My colleague and I will share it with the Laudate. I propose an environmental committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u29	Environment. A colleague of Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u30	Economic Committee, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u31	The Economic Committee. Anyone else? I see no one, so we can vote on these two committees. We will now decide on the commandment of the Environment Committee. I've begun the vote on order 219, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 219, from 117 present for 101, against 3. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee, in the vote on order number 220, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 220, from the present 117 for 110, against no one. This proposal has also been approved. Let me ask the rapporteur. Several times in this discussion, the extension of the deadline has been mentioned, but this proposal has not been submitted in a procedural manner, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u32	No, if I have the right notes, no one suggested it. Two talked about it, but no one suggested it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u33	I'm just asking my colleague Bendl because I saw it in his design, but of course I'd rather ask him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u34	I mentioned it twice. I once said that I would suggest this in a detailed debate, but then I realized that there was probably no detail to it. I told you I'm proposing an extension of 30, or 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-009-058.u35	Extension by 30, variant by 20 days. Okay. For 30 Madam Secretary disagrees, so it is an unvoting proposal. We can vote on the proposal for an extension of 20 days. In voting order number 221, we will vote on extending the deadline for discussion in the committees by 20 days. I've started the vote on order 221 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 221, from 116 in favour of 35, against 66. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal was further directed to the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The deadline for committee discussions was 60 days. Thank you, Minister Karla Šlechtová, for the moment, thank you to the rapporteur. I am ending this item and interrupting the House of Deputies' meeting with the fact that tomorrow morning, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we can be nothing more than answers to written interpelations. So I'm looking forward to seeing you tomorrow morning.
