ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 903/ - first reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, as well as the rapporteur for first reading, Jaroslav Zavadil. We discussed this House press on Wednesday, 9 November, at the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. Before continuing the interrupted general debate, I ask the appellants and rapporteurs whether you want to speak. I don't see interest. So now we will continue the interrupted general debate and we should continue the interrupted speech of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil of 9. 11. So I'm asking if you want to continue your speech, or if you want to continue with those who have been logged in next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u2	Thank you, Mr President, good day, ladies and gentlemen. I actually ended my speech and I was told that we were just finishing that day. So I don't have anything else to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u3	Okay, thank you. Furthermore, I have signed in the order as they were signed in at the time: first, Mrs Adamová. I'm asking if you want to get to that point. This is not the case, in which case Mr Grospič, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me also a few comments on the proposed amendment to the Labour Code, House of Press 903. I pre-advise that even though I have significant reservations about the draft bill submitted, I will not propose rejecting it or returning it to the petitioner for revision. I would simply like to point out that, at the time the press was preparing, and the Minister herself announced at the press conference on 24 August 2016 that it would be primarily an extension of the guarantee of the proposal for the original work and workplace, as well as a period after parental leave, that it would be the abolition of the institute of single transfer of employees to another work, in particular the replacement of the agreement of the Contracting Parties to the employment relationship, the adjustment of the social plan, the adjustment of the rights and obligations in terms of working time, the modification of agreements on work outside employment, the conceptual changes in the legal arrangements of holidays, the strengthening of flexibility of the employment relationship by changing the organisation of work outside the employer's workplace so that this did not become a favourite benefit, the incorporation of the Institute of senior management staff and the transition of rights and duties from employment relations. In this context, I would like to say and I think it would be good for it to be repeatedly said here that the Labour Code, which has number 262/2006 Coll. and became effective from 1. 1. Since its adoption, it has been amended 36 times and once the amendment has been requested by the Constitutional Court. The main points of the amendment that I have referred to here, such as the establishment of top management staff, greater pluralism of trade unions, the modification of collective redundancies, amendments to agreements, the main employment relationship, the regulation of rights and obligations in the accounts of working time, the modification of agreements outside the employment relationship concerning the guarantee of rest, the record of worked time, the protection of the agreement and the rights to leave. In particular, the leave and its determinations depart from the principle of leaving the leave for the days worked and are to correspond to the hours worked. In this context, I would like to say that I would argue quite seriously with the extent to which these proposed changes are actually reflected in the real impact on the labour market in practice. The petitioners also argue precisely the need for so-called. flexibility of the labour market and propose changes in this guarantee by adjusting labour performance outside the employer's workplace. However, it is in connection with the framework agreement concluded by the social partners at European level that this draft law makes an effort to adjust work remotely. However, in substance, it is excluded and disappears from the proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In this context, I would like to say that the draft Labour Code is very general. In its essence, it does not address anything fundamental, and this amendment, as it is presented and in this version, seems to me to be highly redundant in the current situation. Like an amendment that our rule of law doesn't need -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u5	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, my fellow Members, for peace of mind. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u6	On the other hand, that this amendment seems to me to be highly redundant, as useless, which will in no way fundamentally contribute to any change in labour law, it will open Pandořin's box where it will allow greater flexibility in interpreting labour standards in relation to the highly controversial wording of contemporary civil law and the Civil Code. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the boom period may end one day, and then there will be a significant problem with respect for employment relations and the protection of workers in their relationship with the employer. From this point of view, I would like this amendment to have a high level of attention, particularly in terms of possible amendments, and not to weaken the position of employees or the position of trade unions in relation to their rights and employers. I think this is an essential moment that will be reflected in the Czech legal order in the future. And I would like to point out that, given that the end of this parliamentary term is also close, it can happen that by opening this amendment to the Labour Code, submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Government of the Czech Republic, without reaching a significant agreement within the framework of tripartite with its social partners, the famous Pandořin's skříňka, which will act very negatively in the future in the Czech labour market. So much for my contribution to the amendment to the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-006-033.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. I don't see a request. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the rapporteur and the appellant if you want to take the final floor. Madam Secretary? Not interested. Okay. So first of all, we will vote on the proposals that were made in the debate. The proposal was made to reject the proposal and, in the event of failure to pass, to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Both fell from Mrs Adamová of 9. 11. when this law was discussed. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby before I vote. First of all, I will read the first point on which I will vote: the Chamber of Deputies rejects the proposal. Initiating vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't see the checkout application. In that case, I declare this vote confusing. First, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. The number has settled. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of rejecting the motion, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 121, 132 Members and Members registered for proposal 26. [[versus 70]] This proposal was rejected. Another proposal that I will put to the vote is that the Chamber of Deputies returns the proposal put forward to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 122, 135 Members and Members registered, for proposal 29, against 71. This proposal was also rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any suggestions. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who agrees to have the proposal submitted to the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 123, 135 Members and Members registered, for proposal 132, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask who has the motion for a commandment to the next committee for discussion. In the general debate, Mr Rais said that he should be ordered by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. I'm marked here. Isn't that right? [[Named from his place: No need.]] Okay. I'm cutting this proposal. I ask if anyone else wants to order another committee or committees to be discussed. It's not like that. In the event that no further proposal has been made, I will conclude the discussion of this point and thank you. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
