ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended /House print 543/9/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 543/10. I welcome Senator Karel Kratochvíle among us and I ask that Mrs Věra Kovářová, who has represented the appellant from the outset, speak for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, in two versions - Senate and Houses. The senate is different from the House, and they are both different from the version that my colleagues and I have presented. Undoubtedly the extent to which, as a result of the coalition amendments, the draft swelled up a little bit, but also the content, when it regulates more matters than we imagined at the beginning. Now I would like to remind you why we have prepared a draft that originally consisted of a few sentences. Our main motivation was to facilitate the construction of family houses on pauseable areas, where the approval of the authorities for the protection of the agricultural soil fund should not have been required, and to further eliminate the discriminatory treatment according to which municipalities and regions are obliged to pay for the removal of land on which the land will be built, but not as the only State which had a completely incomprehensible derogation. The last amendment point said that, in the case of publicly beneficial buildings in a pawnable area, the levy on permanent removal of agricultural land from the agricultural soil fund is not provided. I would like to comment in more detail on facilitating the construction of family houses. Numerous reactions to the public, but, after all, the vote on this proposal in the third reading, when the draft received a three-quarter, more than a constitutional majority, show that it is a subject which is substantially affected and interested in the public. I'm going to give an example for everyone who's leaning on one of the dozens, maybe hundreds of e-mails I've received on this matter. I quote: "In mid-March 2015, we bought a plot in a Moravian village, building a house here. At that time, we had no idea of the upcoming amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund. In the course of the year we were preparing a project and a month ago began to issue building permits. It was only yesterday that we found that we had to apply for set-aside from the agricultural soil fund and have the amount of the levy calculated. And there was a shock. According to the soil bonita, we were counted for 150 square meters of built-up area of 180,000 crowns. This is an amount for the workers, but not above average earning family very essential. Plus, it's a property currently in a built-up area. And as I repeat, when we bought the land, we didn't have a chance to find out, even if we knew there was an amendment to the law. This is truly a tremendous support for young families." So ironically, and I think, rightly, one of the writers ends his report, and I have an understanding of his words. Yes, the last amendment to the Agricultural Soil Fund Act has indeed failed, and I would very much like it if we could admit it and fix our misstep. I will now give one more example concerning the municipality of Neplechov. The municipality dedicated its playground for the construction of other publicly beneficial constructions, namely the D3 motorway, with the construction of a new playground on another plot according to the new zoning plan. But what a shock it was when she found out that she would have to pay 9 miles for the exemption. Crowns. This means that this village will never build playgrounds again. Unless, of course, you support the Senate version. But now, in brief, I would return to the press history number 579. The two coalition complex amendments tabled in the House discussed three points above have worked, although unfortunately not entirely. Unfortunately, the requirement to include publicly beneficial buildings in the third reading vote failed. This problem was subsequently attempted by colleagues from the upper chamber and solved in a way that is evident from the Senate version of the proposal. The important thing from my point of view is that this method, for example, has gained the support of the Union of Towns and Communities, which in its opinion offers a convincing example of the senseless cost of the current adjustment. I quote: "The existing set-aside fee for the extension of the cemetery was set at 4.5 miles per city in South Moravia. Crowns. After the proposed adjustment, there would be 450 thousand crowns. Saved money could be used by municipalities in other areas of the community's life - to repair pavements, roads, public lighting, to support associations." So much press release to the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I would like to stress that, above all, because the Senate version seeks to respect more faithfully the form of our original design, I state as a petitioner that it has my support. In the event that the Senate version does not receive sufficient support, I would recommend that this House support at least the reduced version of the Houses. The worst thing that could happen would be if both of these proposals fell under the table and the calls of young families who are burdened with absurdly high levies, and the municipalities and cities, which are currently being set up as a barrier to development, would remain unheard of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u3	I thank Mrs Věra Kovářová, and before we go any further, I will ask whether the rapporteurs, Mr Josef Kott, want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate, first of all, on the Guarantee Committee of the Agricultural Committee. Yes, he's interested. Colleagues Robin Böhnisch and František Adámek will be prepared if they are interested in commenting. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The amendment of the Agricultural Soil Fund Protection Act adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the comprehensive amendment of the Agricultural Committee, contains a solution to the application problems in the case of an exception to the area for production, storage and strategic industrial zones, an exception for roads and local communications built by the regions and municipalities, an exception for the construction of water tanks and an exception for individual construction of family houses. On this compromise was found, as you already know, a consensus not only in the Chamber of Deputies but also between the various ministries, i.e. Ministry of the Environment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u5	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing a problem other than the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, please in the foyer. And it concerns all parts of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll wait a little longer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is the result of the compromise between the Chamber of Deputies, but mainly between the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Senate proposes to introduce into the law not only exemption from the fees for the farmland fund, for the construction of family houses in a built-up area, another exception to the reduction of the levy in the construction of publicly beneficial buildings outside the built-up areas. Some senators consider the applicable exemption for building publicly beneficial buildings in a built-up area to be insufficient and promote a reduction in the contribution to building unspecified projects. We are returning again to the date of significantly beneficial constructions. A significant risk is the fact that the requirement of senators not only weakens the protection of the original fund in the Czech Republic by introducing further exceptions to the law, but above all its own application impact of such a type of provision. Extensive private sports and recreation areas, ski resorts and similar could, by decision of representatives, obtain a significant economic advantage at the expense of the protection of the agricultural soil fund, without the influence of the state authorities. The law returns from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies, and it is very important that we realise the risks of Senate amendments described. I recommend that we remain on the approved version of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Josef Kotta. Now, my colleague Robin Böhnisch - is interested in the rapporteur's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on the Environment was not a guarantee committee, but let me confirm briefly the words of my previous speaker. The Committee on the Environment adopted a very similar amendment, which was then the basis of the final House version. We believe that the House's version is very balanced and meets the essential requirements of the draft legislature. This means, above all, facilitating the construction of family houses, where the levy for exemption from the agricultural soil fund is significantly reduced. The Senate's proposal is too broad in my opinion, and I would be afraid to accept a Senate version of what I would call a potential developer Eldorado in a free landscape under the cover of public utility. I am therefore going to ask you to approve the version of the Houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u9	I thank Mr Robin Böhnisch. A colleague of František Adámek, if he is interested. It's not like that. I'm opening the debate. Senator Karel Kratochvíle will be the first to speak in the debate, and then I will give room for both the registered and factual remarks. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, honourable Members, as of 1 April 2015, the amendment to Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, No. 41/2015 Sb., which also brought significant impacts on the life of cities and municipalities, as well as the regions, and last but not least also on the construction of family houses. From the date mentioned above, exemption from the agricultural soil fund for the construction of roads owned by regions and municipalities shall be charged. In addition, the exemption from the agricultural soil fund outside the built-up area for housing buildings or publicly beneficial buildings placed outside the leek of up to half a hectare was newly charged. The Senate therefore proposes, in the amendment points 11 and 30 of the draft law, an adjustment of the levies for the exemption from the agricultural soil fund for the construction of family houses, including related buildings for own use or public utility buildings, in the sense that, first, in the built-up territory, the approval of the authorities for the protection of the agricultural soil fund with withdrawal is not required. Secondly, the consent of the authorities to the protection of the agricultural soil fund will be required in the pauseable area and the levies will be determined but without the use of the environmental weight of the influence. The Senate proposal has an increased effect on the protection of the agricultural soil fund. The Senate believes that the construction workers of the buildings will be much more motivated to consider whether to implement the construction in a pauseable area and thus expose themselves to the obligation to pay contributions for the set-aside of the land from the agricultural land fund, or to use the land in the built-up territory of the municipality where the fee will not be set. It is therefore a form of environmental approach that aims to balance purely fiscal interests. At the same time, the economic tool for protecting the agricultural original fund will be maintained, but it will not prevent the implementation of the construction, as there will be removal of cases of high levies, often in the order of hundreds of thousands of crowns in the framework of the withdrawal of agricultural land for the implementation of individual construction of family houses or in the order of up to CZK million for the withdrawal of agricultural land for the construction of publicly beneficial buildings. [[millions?]] According to the calculation of the Ministry of Environment, this should be a contribution of a maximum of 180 CZK/m2. T.j. the levy on the removal of agricultural land of 200 m2 for one family house with reinforced areas will amount to a maximum of 36 thousand crowns against the current 360 thousand. The Institute of Public Works is already introduced in the existing wording of the Act and should therefore not cause problems in application practice. It is worth pointing out that the basic instrument for the protection of the agricultural soil fund is territorial plans where the nature protection authorities and the protection authorities of the agricultural soil fund are participants with a decisive opinion in the process of discussing and approving the nature protection authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u11	I thank Senator Kratochvíle and in the debate - Mrs Miroslava Němcová's factual comment? No. Then the factual remark of Mr Herbert Pavera, Mr Bendl, will be prepared with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u12	Have a nice evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say briefly to support the Senate proposal that I really understand - although I am a member of the agricultural committee, and of course I know that agricultural land is very valuable for the future of the Czech Republic, but at the same time I also have the position of mayor of the municipality, where it is necessary to ensure the development of municipalities and cities, and therefore I think that we should also support the discount for taxes on agricultural land funds not only for family houses, but also for public utility buildings, because the school and sports facilities in the village are very important and the villages really do not have so much money to exempt from the agricultural soil fund. A much larger problem we have approved there is a relief for building some storage hangars and so on. I don't think it was supposed to be there at all. That was supposed to be out of the law. Because it's gonna be a lot more land that we're actually gonna lose from the agricultural soil fund, and that's where I think we made a little mistake. Thank you. And just a reminder, because I have a moment - please, there is a beautiful exhibition in the atrium of the Chamber of Deputies about our even more beautiful region of Hlučín. Well, don't forget to check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u13	I thank Mr Herbert Paver, who has slightly deviated from the subject of the debate, but I think it has been positive. Now in the debate, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Václav Zemek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr Senator, I believe that an amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund is needed. And you need to remember history. The so-called reduction in the exemption from the agricultural soil fund took place after the Chamber of Deputies decided to use this instrument as a brake on the construction of photovoltaic power plants and the acquisition of the agricultural soil fund in meadows and fields, if you wish. That's why the price went up. So speaking of discount today, it's not exactly accurate. I don't think the brakes are necessary anymore. There is no longer a need for this astronomical cost of exemption from the agricultural soil fund, and we can calmly return to the position in which we were in the past, because the atrocities that have occurred cannot happen anymore. Unfortunately, in a government amendment that was an opportunity for us to get things back to normal, we poured out the baby with the bathtub as we demanded, for example - or you who voted for it, I did not - disproportionate money, for example, from exempting from the agricultural soil fund, even in the case of building a new pond or public utility buildings. I consider this to be a mistake even if this is the case today, because publicly beneficial buildings usually invest cities, municipalities, regions, and when you agree to a significant increase in the exemption from the agricultural soil fund, so what will they do? They come to the state and say, State, you have to give some funding because we're not able to finance it from our budget. And we're going to spin a circle of bureaucracy around it, and the money inside these requests is going to be lost rather than multiplying. There are hard debates on the agricultural soil fund and its protection at a time when individual cities and municipalities or regions negotiate with interested ministries or nature conservation authorities. So it's not true the sentence that said here that the state doesn't have and didn't have a chance to influence the farmland fund. The opposite is true. The state is very open to discussions and debates with individual municipalities when they discuss their territorial plans, where the development of the municipality can be released and where it is not. These are detailed but very detailed discussions on territorial plans, and there is a decision as to whether or not an exemption from the ZPF is made. This novel is basically just saying how much to pay for it. Some of you think the more expensive it gets, the worse it gets for investors, and so they won't build. In the case of publicly beneficial buildings - I note again, they are cities and municipalities, and they are hard-discussed development plans of cities and municipalities with the nature and landscape conservation authorities. You need to know that you're actually saying "who has the money, who can afford to get out of ZPF, and who doesn't have the money, doesn't." Yes, the parliamentary version has put a bit of CZK 36,000 on it, but it is true - in the case of family houses. It doesn't apply to the others. In short, municipalities will have to pay hard for public utility structures if they want to expand their transport network, pavements or build another publicly beneficial construction. Of course, they're gonna come back to the state looking for some grant titles, and they're gonna have to pay for it this way. Nothing more, nothing less. In principle, who must be happy about this is, of course, the Minister of the Environment, because these are the funds that will go to the fund in particular, but we are taking it from the people, or from the budgets of municipalities and cities. They could have built something else for it, or out of their own, and let's face it, not completely filled with budgets, given the needs of cities and municipalities, they're going to have to spend this money on the altar of the Ministry of the Environment. And that is a significant difference before the brake was in the form of an old amendment to the Law on Agricultural Soil Fund, which was adopted, as I said, precisely to prevent the construction of photovoltaic power plants in individual meadows and fields. That's why, when you say you want to defend the farmland fund by making it expensive, that's not what they're doing. The zoning plan says where it can be built and where it cannot be built, what can be built there and under what conditions, only it will be more expensive. Basically, you're just deciding that we're gonna cost it or you're gonna cost it, and I'm not up for it. But since I know that the current amendment to the law is much worse than the parliamentary proposal and even worse than the Senate, I'm going to be here to support the Senate proposal, because that's where I think the experience of the senators in community policy is known, and at least that's where we need to go. If we do not accept the Senate proposal, the parliamentary proposal is better, albeit by opposition Members, because it also improves the situation compared to the government bill that we have adopted in the past and which makes the exemption from the agricultural soil fund more expensive in a senseless way. Again, whether it goes or goes or cannot be removed is determined by the zoning plan. And territorial plans are discussed with all state institutions, of course, with the participation of interested not only cities and municipalities, but also owners of individual properties, landowners and so on. I say for myself, I will support both options, but I think the senators had more sense than the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. I will ask my colleague Zemek to be patient because there is a factual point to which Mr Michal Kučera has applied. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u16	Hello, and thank you for the floor. I have to respond a little to my previous speaker here. I really must point out here that the exemption fee from the agricultural soil fund is significantly regulatory. The fact that he's deciding in the zoning plan whether or not this land is intended to be built or not, I think we can all agree on that. It is the regulatory fee that is one of the factors that says how we are going to take this decision. I don't want to judge the law as such right now. I do not want to evaluate the Senate proposal or the parliamentary proposal here, but I really wish to reject the fact that the fee does not comply with the regulatory function. He's got the regulatory function. The regulatory function is very important and it plays a role in decision making. I'm not saying he plays the most important part, but he definitely plays the part. The thought is simply quite simple. If anyone wants to build on the most delicious soil, they'll just pay for it. It's just simple. I think that look is or should be similar to us and all the mayors. The fee certainly is not the factor that prevents construction, but it says, "Watch out, you are building on bonita farmland, and it really costs something." I repeat, at this point, I am not evaluating either the MP or the Senate proposal, but rather I am defining myself against the fact that the fee is not regulatory and that the main thing is only on the zoning plan. It takes place, but with the view of regulation, it is the exemption fee from the agricultural soil fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now two more factual points, my colleague Zemek will wait, and that will be for Mr Petr Bendl and then for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u18	I don't understand. I must ask Mr Kučera through the President because the Senate proposal is closest to the Members or to the MP's proposal signed by Members from TOP 09 and the starosta. And what I've just heard here is defending raising that fee, that it's regulatory. The fee is a different form of tax, and that's why I'd like to go back to the level that was here before the brake was accepted. And I wouldn't tax it that much, or I wouldn't charge it that much, because we take it out of one pocket and we give it to the other. First of all. And secondly, to those who have finally saved up for living, we are making it ridiculous and stupidly expensive for them. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Laudát, all with factual remarks. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u20	I don't want to argue with a fellow opposition bench, but we should trust the authorities a little bit more. And the fight about whether or not the location is suitable for construction is to be seduced in the village. And no more regulatory fees. For what? So either we trust the self-government to decide wisely and approve the zoning plan, and it is not at all an easy thing to promote, knows how complicated it is, how many people talk into it, you have a superior body, etc. And not that we're going to come and say, "It's nice that they've agreed to build family houses here in the village, but watch out, we protectionists who live somewhere else, it seems stupid to us, because it's valuable land, so at least let them pay. And on top of that, the state budget, which is kind of a bottomless hole, and that's where it ends. Alternatively, we could come up with a grant title to subsidize the construction of pavements or family houses or public lighting. That's crazy. First, we take it away from them because we don't trust their decisions and we say, well, they don't really have the zoning plan in that village, if I were sitting there, I'd do it completely differently, and I'd never allow construction in this part of the territory. Or not. So I fully respect the right of each and every one of us in our community, in my city to strongly assert our view of the zoning plan, to win the majority for it, to enforce it, but I'm a little concerned about the pride of this Prague, how we're going to tell everyone that it's wrong, and if you've already done it wrong, then at least pay for it. I just don't think it's a reasonable principle. And if I wanted to poke some of my colleagues sitting on the left of us, you'd have two political parties in that deputies club, and you just don't agree on this. And it's closer to us personally -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u21	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u22	- is closer to those who respect self-government. Thank you, Mr President, for the warning. I didn't even notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u23	Now three factual points. Mr Laudát, Mr Junek and Mr Novotný. Now, Mr Laudát, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u24	That's what they say. You had a chance to come up with the law. She came up with the TOP 09, and there are 18 Members signed under it, if I'm not mistaken, it's been a long time since she's been here. So what are you saying about what anybody wants? And every load with a fee of anything is a regulatory issue. Look at Babiš, he's charged entrepreneurs, businessmen and he's going to charge him, and he's going to regulate them, and when he's regulated them, he's going to regulate them to the employment office or to Agrofert. So it works and you'll see in practice that it will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Junek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to the wise government. So it would be great if the government were wise, but then you have the pressures when people come, and we want to build, then the investor comes and says, we'd like to build an industrial zone here, and he'll start arguing, it'll bring money, jobs, etc. And where's the wisdom all of a sudden? The village will say, well, the money's fine, but on the other hand, the arable land we're going to destroy. And where's the wisdom? I don't think that's how it works. What's going on with the removal from the agricultural soil fund? The point is that today the villages and cities are growing further into the landscape. And the Wednesdays are emptying out. I say you choose. Either you do, you go to the city and pay, and if you build in the middle of town, it's cheaper for you. That's the principle of it. But the wise government, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u27	So the performance of my colleague Junek triggered a wave of factual remarks. So colleague Novotný, he is duly registered, then colleague Herbert Pavera, Miroslav Kalousek and Zbyněk Stanjura. Real notes. So I lost hope of closing this item within 19 hours under the Rules of Procedure. Now my colleague Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u28	Colleagues and colleagues, the idea that self-government is very wrong when it carries out spatial planning is in deciding where to build and where not, autonomously. The Agricultural Soil Fund Protection Authority, when you do not reach agreement with it in the context of territorial planning, basically, you have no chance of approving the zoning plan. You can deal with the regional authority, you can go into conflict with the Ministry of the Environment, the results of the conflict proceedings are very often unsuccessful for the self-government. Even though they are convinced of the public benefit of the intention, they will not be able to convince the Ministry in a large percentage of it, and therefore not even to include any such publicly beneficial intention in their zoning plan. It's the experience of many authorities. I am therefore deeply convinced that regulation is sufficiently strong in this mechanism. And to regulate it economically still essentially means taking one last chance from people who have no experience in managing cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u29	I thank Mr Novotný. Now Mr Herbert Pavera has also made a point of fact. A colleague of Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u30	Good evening again. Just briefly through Mr President to Mr Junek, I would like to say - yes, that is what it looks like when someone has no experience with self-government. Then he talks such nonsense as Mr. Junek. Many people who have not tried do so do not know at all that the zoning plan is done for two or three years, and all the authorities at the ministries express themselves, whether it be the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and others, which they will say theirs and either give or do not give their consent. So, colleague, first of all, let's get to know this, and then talk to reason here, not without reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek has also made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u32	Thank you. Forgive me, but I couldn't let a cold performance by my colleague Junek. I do not take any illusions about the existence or absence of pressures on municipalities when approving the zoning plan and other decisions, but the idea that while there are pressures and wisdom sometimes retreats, while only the wisdom that we impose on the law reigns here, that really surprised me. Take this by means of the President, my colleague, on yourself. How many times have you been jerking off like you didn't want to approve something, that it's not wise to support laws that restrict human freedom, and then you said, well, yeah, he's the coalition compromise. And if you traded a promise of cheaper diapers for 16 points of the list of non-freedom, where's the wisdom, for God's sake? So these pressures are everywhere, in the village, on a central level. And it depends more on the firmness of our attitudes and consciences than whether we are in the community or in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura, last point of fact. I hope he doesn't cause another wave. Then a colleague of Zemek would have gotten to the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u34	First of all, I would like to say that we supported the proposal made by Mrs Kovářová and her colleagues. Today we are ready to vote for both versions. Both are better than the current situation, so we are ready to vote for both the Senate and the House. Otherwise, I want to stand up for Mr Junek a little bit. He's an experienced municipal politician. But a little bit in his green world view, he forgot about it in the show. [[19.00 hours]] These are nice advice, my dear fellow, through the Vice-President. But try building something downtown when it's built. It's not that easy to build a house downtown. Plus, the land itself is worth a lot more than the land on the edge. And those are the advice of us who already live. We advise those who would like to build something. Well, that's our advice! I don't even know when territorial plans were made in those apartments or family houses where we are living in the Chamber of Deputies. And when I was talking about respect for self-government, I admit that some of that self-government isn't going to do it well or happily, but my colleagues have already talked about how it's not quite easy to approve either a zoning plan or a change in the zoning plan. Whoever tried it, that's two or three years when it goes well, said Mr. Pavera, also the mayor of a successful community in my electoral region. And if it doesn't go well, you've been doing it for five years. And you don't solve this whole town's zoning plan, like in the case of Opava. So it's really a long run. I'm the one who called on us to respect the Authority. In order not to say - and often here it is, and it was with the school law that the state is wiser than self-government and, of course, in the left-wing view of the world, the state is mainly wiser than parents and citizens. And I say it's the other way around. And if they choose the wrong government somewhere, they don't have a good zoning plan, it just might happen. If we do it from downtown, there'll be a lot more bad decisions than leaving it where it belongs. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Václav Zemek, duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in advance that my views on the protection of the agricultural soil fund are somewhat different from some of my previous speakers, and I hope that this will not trigger again an avalanche of various remarks. And I will try to be very brief. The Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund is an eternal duel between the advocates of construction on the one hand and the land protectors on the other. As this duel falls, we see best in our country. Just look at the aerial images from this year and, for example, aerial images five years old and then we see how much agricultural or free land has been lost. It's just my first point. I was listening to the debate here, and it seemed to me a little bit that not all the speakers were in the picture, because we are here today, or we are talking about a novel tabled by Mrs Kovářová, who then had a debate here in the House, and various amendments were incorporated into it. And then the Senate version. But both of these versions reduce the charges. So I kind of thought from this debate that not everyone has noticed what we're talking about. There's been a few of these not-so-accurate information. I'm not going to mention them all, but it happened to be in my memory that they were paid to take them out at the ponds. Well, of course that's not true. If the pond is renewed and there is no intensive management, there is no exemption. It also happened here that the law was changed because of photovoltaic power plants. I don't know what the intention was, but if you know when someone was building a photovoltaic power plant on agricultural land, it's only temporary exclusion, not permanent. And then there was this big debate about the zoning plans and about the possibility or about increasing construction costs. I'm taking a different view from my colleagues, and I hope they'll forgive me for not agreeing on this. That, from my point of view, this is just a regulatory instrument that should somehow regulate the construction where the soil is not so good or where there is no need for underground resources, which is also related to the protection of the soil fund. I think that in most normally functioning councils, where territorial plans are formed, this principle is respected. But, of course, I know cases from practice, and I know a number of cases where this principle has not been respected. And then these things happen that the builders suddenly find out that there are several factors on their property, and it has cost them the tax of exemption from the agricultural soil fund. But this has more or less been resolved, it was probably the most fundamental objection or comment in the proposal by Mrs Kovářová, who was accepted. This has been resolved. From my point of view, the House version is somewhat better, when the Senate once again introduces further and further exceptions. I understand some things like cemeteries, that's the problem, those particular cases will be there. And I think the practice will show up, and I think the ministry has promised to do some analysis of the process. But in today's vote, I would very much advocate that the Law on the Protection of the Soil Fund should make sense for us to vote in favour of the House version. And I hope that other colleagues will support that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u37	I thank Mr Václav Zemek. Although with priority rights - sorry, not with priority rights, Mrs Kovářová applied, there is still a factual point by Mr Petr Bendl, so I will give him the floor on a factual point. And then Mrs Věra Kovářová, the plaintiff's deputy. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u38	Thank you for the floor. All I have to do is respond to what my colleague Zemek said. I didn't say it was necessary or that it had to be paid for the reconstruction of a water surface or a pond, but for the construction of a new one. And if we've been talking here for a long time about wanting to do the best we can to keep water in the countryside, then it's just right that we shouldn't cost the construction of new water areas and new ponds in the Czech Republic. And there's nothing to pay for exemption, because it helps the landscape and helps the environment itself. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in the government amendment to the Law on Agricultural Soil Fund, although we have proposed it. But you refused. It is in this bill. It's an opposition bill, thank God for that. But what's also in the Senate bill is that in publicly beneficial constructions, the fee would also be reduced, which would mean that there would be less pressure on subsidies from those investors who build publicly beneficial constructions. And please, once again, this law is only about how much it will cost to be set free. Not about where he'll be able to stand. Whether there's a playground or there's no playground. If there has to be a field, etc., all of this determines the zoning plan, not the law on the agricultural soil fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u39	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mrs Kovářová, I will ask the House for peace! So we can negotiate this point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt that there was not enough to say what we were going to vote on. I would therefore like to sum this up now. We'll be separating for family homes and community-friendly buildings. According to the approved amendment by the House for family houses, it will be paid in a built-up area according to the soil bonita. For publicly beneficial constructions they will be without consent, or no fee in the clearance up to half a hectare. In the Senate version of the family house in the built-up area will be without consent, or without charge and publicly beneficial buildings will also be. We're talking area built up. The area can be stopped according to the zoning plan, when the family houses - according to the House version for exemption will be paid according to the bonita and the Senate version says the same thing. For publicly beneficial buildings it is said that according to the House's version will be paid for exemption according to coefficients. These are the huge amounts that we have been talking about here. Whereas the Senate version says that it will also be paid, but without the environmental weight of influence, without the coefficients according to the soil bonita. In short, it's about family houses and community-service buildings. I'm just pointing out that there is a consensus in communications, in municipalities and regions where these will not pay for exemption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-004-003.u41	Thank you, that was the last application for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Before we continue, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jana Lorencová from 19 to 21 from today's meeting. Since the debate has been closed, I ask if the rapporteurs are interested in final words. It's not like that. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'm gonna go on to summon the ones I asked to discuss outside the O.R. [[19.10 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, pursuant to House press 543/9, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 543/10.' I've started voting number 29 and I'm asking who's up for the Senate version. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 29, from 163 present for 37, against 105. The motion was denied. Let's keep going, then. I note that we have not adopted a resolution with the draft law as approved by the Senate. We will therefore consider the proposal approved by the House. We will therefore vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We have the necessary number, i.e. 101 Members, to adopt the resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to the House's Press, 543/9.' I've started voting number 30, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30, from the present 164 for 157, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have given our consent to the bill. I thank the appellant, thank you to the Senator, thank you and the rapporteurs, and we will continue. The next item is:
