ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u1	54. Government bill on European political parties and European political talents and on the amendment of certain laws /German press 876/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the draft law on European political parties and European political talents and the amendment of some of the laws available to you as the Parliamentary Press 876. The aim of the proposal is to adapt the Czech rule of law to Regulation No. 1141/2014 and status on the financing of European political parties and European political foundations. The draft law regulates certain additional requirements concerning European political parties and foundations in the Czech Republic in relation to their statutes and registration by the EU Office for European political parties and foundations. The bill also addresses, for example, the change of the legal form of the European political party or foundation to the association and the change of the legal form of the association to the European political foundation. Furthermore, the law regulates the interaction of the Ministry of Interior with the Office for European Political Parties and Foundations and determines the Ministry of Finance as a national contact point through which the Czech Republic de facto becomes contact for European authorities. The Office for European Political Parties and European Foundations and the authorising officer of the European Parliament shall inform each other of issues relating to funding, control and sanctions in respect of European political parties and foundations. On the contrary, the subject matter of the law and the regulation implemented is not the participation of European political parties in the elections. Under the laws in force in the Czech Republic, European political parties cannot be electoral bodies and this does not change anything in the proposal. European legal status does not entitle these parties to nominate candidates for national elections or elections to the European Parliament, nor to participate in referendum campaigns. Granting such or similar authorisation shall remain within the competence of the Member States as it has been so far. The law presented will not affect the competence of the domestic Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, which we have recently established on the basis of Act No. 421, i.e. the original 1991 law in the framework of its amendment. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the status and financing of European political parties and political foundations takes effect on 1 January 2017. Therefore, the effectiveness of this law is also proposed at that date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has said almost everything that is in the law, because he is really on some seven pages of the text itself. I suggest you release this proposal to the inspection committee. Just as one topic to discuss. We have set up, as the Minister said, an amendment to Act No. 424 on political parties The Office for Political Party Control and Movement. So I don't know why the Ministry of Finance is supposed to be the contact point when we set up a new office to control political parties. Maybe we'll discuss that on the committee. I recommend release.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which I see Mr Benda's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u6	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not propose anything wrong with this law, because I know that there is nothing we can do about it, it is a European regulation, but I just want to point out that this is exactly one of those European nonsenses that is trying to artificially create something like a European nation. It is precisely the procedure that Brussels is unfortunately voting for, the European Parliament and others who still feel that if something is more centralized, they will be able to create something like a European nation. As we can see, it basically leads to absurd results. Because here we will recognise the possibility of European political parties and European political foundations, but at the same time we will say that it does not entitle them to run for office in any election, that they must be registered - and I agree with this procedure by the Ministry of the Interior - in the Czech Republic so that they can run for office here. I just wanted to say that it is precisely the mistakes that Europe is going to make today and where I just don't understand how we can at least try to stop them in advance and always come here only in the form of 'we have to approve' when we have a whole range of means of negotiating at European level, how to try to fight these very centralization efforts, because perhaps everyone has already understood that attempts to centralize Europe into Brussels will only lead to other Brexits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-004-054.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. He doesn't. Neither does the rapporteur. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will take the vote at this time. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to register with your cards again. At this point, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of having the motion tabled be ordered to discuss the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 191, registered 97 for 95. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. So at this point, I'm saying that we've been through the first reading, and I'm closing the discussion on this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
