ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended /German press 510/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. The resolution was delivered as press 510/6. Welcome to Senator Šesták. I ask that Milan Chovanec, Minister of the Interior, speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me, on the basis of the Government's mandate, to comment on the proposal for an amendment to the law on the right of assembly, which was, with amendments, returned to the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We discussed the content of the amendment in detail during its discussions in the Chamber of Deputies. At least in a nutshell, I would sum up what the objective of this amendment is. In particular, the amendment strengthens and specifies the powers of municipalities and police, responds to the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court and makes it possible to deal more effectively with collisions between multiple meetings or other events. During the debate in the Senate, two minor amendments were proposed with which this amendment is returned to the Chamber of Deputies. The first proposal extends from citizens of the Czech Republic to every natural person. The second proposal is supplemented by a list of non-notified gatherings of so-called spontaneous gatherings. I can say for us as a petitioner that we do not have a major problem with both of these proposals and our comments on both are neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Vlastimil Vozka, whether he wishes to speak and comment on the Senate's proposals. That's right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm asking the others not to gather, not to discuss. This also applies to colleagues in the first place. [[They're not responding.]] I ask Mr Fiedler to settle down. Thank you. The President of the Social Democracy Club and the Chairman of the Security Committee, please. And there's someone else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u4	Mr President, after discussing the House's press 510 in the third reading, the Senate passed a bill as press 278 on 19 May. The Senate has appointed a constitutional committee as a guarantee committee. With the conclusion of the Senate, i.e. to return the amendment under discussion to the Chamber of Deputies, we have been informed. The proposal, as the Minister has already said, concerns two points mentioned in the Houses of the Press 510/6. Here the Senate has the view that the law needs to be adapted in the following way. In the first case, the words "physical person" shall be inserted in the approved version of the House in Section 3. At this point, it should be noted that the proposed amendment is affected by Section 3, which deals with the person of the caller. We have already examined this proposed change in detail when discussing the amendment of the law in both the constitutional and two meetings of experts with representatives of the legislator, the Police Directorate and representatives of the Security Committee. We believe that the responsibility of the caller must be strengthened. I remind you that there is no limit in any way to the possibility of gathering. Everyone has this right, as is already guaranteed in Section 1 of the Act. As regards the second point which the Senate puts into law, this is the addition of § 4 on the letter. (e) which is to sound "a gathering of the resulting immediate response to the new situation," I agree with the Minister. This proposal included government versions. Unfortunately, the reasons for including such a change in the law are not clear and are not sufficiently justified in terms of practice with this law. I strongly do not recommend accepting this proposal because this innocent-looking formulation means that it is possible to circumvent the entire law, and the law is thus negated. According to this point, any assembly, even those who do not have proper summoners and who do not fulfil the conditions of the law, may be declared to be a meeting responding to the newly created situation. In practice, most meetings are convened for the public presentation of citizens' views. That's the main point of the law. It is not his purpose to create chaos and sultry that can lead to conflicts that we do not want and which must not be tolerated in our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u5	Thank you, too. I'm opening the debate. I beg Mr Plíšek and then Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u6	Mr President, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to the position of the TOP 09 and the starosta on this amendment. We have not already supported the parliamentary version of the amendment to the assembly law, especially because, in our view, it distorts and breaks the right of assembly guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in particular as regards the possibility for an official to relocate or designate a meeting place other than that at which it was convened. This we see that it can be greatly abused in the political struggle and it can interfere with the right of assembly, because I think it is also very important that the place at which the assembly is convened, and if the official is on the ground on the basis of a possible political assignment decided on another place of assembly, that is indeed an unacceptable intervention in the assembly right. [[14.20 hours]] Unfortunately, we cannot support the Senate version either because it introduced a very vague notion that a meeting that responds to the new situation is not to be announced or not. We can imagine various nationalistic, ultra-right, ultra-left fighters reacting to peaceful meetings and saying: well, we are responding to the new situation. So this is a very vague and dangerous provision that has come into this proposal. Last but not least, we will also not support both proposals on the grounds that my proposal in the Chamber of Deputies did not pass, which covered the protection of commemorative places of selected public holidays in terms of commemorating their purpose and their place. So for these reasons, our parliamentary club cannot support either the Senate or the MP's version, and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u7	Thank you. I will ask Mr Tejc to endure a little longer. I apologize to the senator I should have let speak first. So please, now there's room for your performance. After that, Mr. Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u8	Mr President, Ministers, honourable Members, let me give you more details of the reasons for the amendments adopted by the resolution of the Senate. The Senate was referred to the proposal for a larger amendment to Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended. The observations of Senate legislation focused mainly on two points, firstly, that the law on the right of assembly, which was adopted in March 1990, confers the right to gather peacefully only to the citizens of our state. The legislative amendments to the restrictive provisions have not taken place, so they are still part of the valid text of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedom, subsequently published under the number 2/1993 Coll., which in Article 19 guarantees the peaceful exercise of the right of assembly to everyone without any ties to citizenship. The draft amendment of Act No.84/1990 Coll. includes, among other things, proposals for amendments to the provisions of the Act which remove restrictions on the exercise of the right of assembly by replacing the word citizen with the word of each or person, see Article I (1), (2), (9) and 23 of the proposal. The only exception is the provision of Section 3 of the Act, which remains unchanged and is: The Assembly may convene a citizen over 18 years of age or a legal person based in the territory of the Czech Republic or a group of persons, hereinafter called a caller. It is reasonable to doubt whether the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, according to which only a citizen of the Czech Republic can be called by the assembly, are in accordance with Article 19 of the Charter, as well as the obligations arising from international treaties which bind the Czech Republic, which contain the guarantee of peaceful exercise of the right of assembly. It is also necessary to draw attention to the interpretation problems that are likely to occur if the provisions of Section 3 of the Act remain unchanged. It will not be clear whether the interpretation rule referred to in Article 42 (2) is to continue to be applied in relation to the caller. 3 Charters, or our citizenship required. So much for the first amendment. In addition, the law on the right of assembly in Section 15 provides for an exhaustive list of the provisions of the law which must be applied in relation to meetings which have not been convened. This means spontaneous gatherings resulting from an immediate response to the current situation. These may be cultural gatherings, with cultural subtext, or with the subtext of sporting events. On the basis of the proposed amendments, this special type of assembly was subordinate to the assembly regime, which does not need to be notified to the competent authority within the meaning of Section 4 of the Act. The provisions of Section 15 of the Law were simultaneously designed to be abolished for overcapacity. This solution is quite logical because the spontaneous assembly immediately responds to the current situation and has no caller to announce it. As can be seen from the text of the proposal submitted, although the Chamber of Deputies approved the repeal of the provisions of Section 15 of the Law, see Article I, paragraph 28 of the proposal, it did not support the proposed intention to include spontaneously formed meetings under the regime of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act. In this situation, there may be doubts as to whether the absence of legal provisions regulating the course of spontaneous gatherings will cause problems in the application of the law in practice. The bill was discussed by the Senate at the Senate plenary on 15. 6. 2016, which, following the recommendation of both committees, means the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions, and the Committee on Constitutional Law, has adopted these proposals, which I'm sure you have at your disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u9	Thank you, Senator. One more point in fact, Mr Vozka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to distract the Senator's concern, because I think, in a short form, I have answered some of the problems raised in my speech. As regards Section 1, the right of assembly is guaranteed in the context of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as pointed out. That means everyone has the right to gather. The problem we are talking about in Section 3 is to strengthen the role of caller and to caller we have, as you read correctly, in the law some conditions that must be fulfilled. But the Charter of Rights and Freedoms in this case is not entirely certain, given the caller of the assembly as an executor. And we argue that the entire assembly process is fully in line with the Charter, because it allows everyone to attend these meetings as far as this is concerned. On the second point, I think I answered in my performance. We do not cheer for spontaneous meetings because, as you rightly said in your speech, there is the possibility that this spontaneous gathering, for example, will arise - I quote - in sports businesses. And that's exactly what we wouldn't want. 'Cause if one crew hits the other crew after the sports rally, then we're gonna say yes, that was up to date. And we would be happy to anticipate these things, and we certainly can't be 100% sure where the problem of spontaneous meetings can go. That is why we would very much like you, as a senator and as one who reads our laws very carefully, to understand our situation, because we are based on practice, on performance with this law. Otherwise, I forgot in my opening statement to assure that the Ministry is ready all the officials involved, train and get acquainted with the entire law. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u11	Thank you. Mr. Tejc, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to what has been said. I would like to thank the Senator for his detailed argument, and surely the Senate has reasons for returning the proposal, and I understand them in part. On the other hand, I would like to intercede for not supporting the Senate version, but for supporting the original House version, and I would support my colleague Vozka, whom I thank for the work of the rapporteur. Because the law has been discussed for weeks in the House, it has been discussed with the professional public, with those who have been engaged in this issue for a long time. It is certainly not that we are not aware of these discussions and these variants with which the Senate has come, and that is why we have considered them very much. And I must say that I also do not consider it right to allow any physical person to call a demonstration, including those who do not have our citizenship, to be foreigners, because we can look forward to the situation that we, as state authorities, want to put the caller to account, or, on the contrary, we want to communicate with him before the demonstration begins, and he will not be able to be caught, because he will be staying in, for example, an unattainable foreign country for us. [[14.30 hours]] I think one thing is the right to gather, Mr Vozka has already talked about it, and the second thing is to call and organize a demonstration. I think that this right should only remain here for citizens of the Czech Republic. The second thing that concerns the spontaneous gatherings. Indeed, the regulation could lead to the law being useless in the end. That those who do not want to submit to the law and who do not want to announce the meeting in advance would always take advantage but rather abuse the legal situation. They'd say we're meeting here because it's a spontaneous reaction. And the rules that we lay down precisely to ensure, for example, the health and life of third parties would not work. It is precisely because of the concern about this abuse that we have not taken a stand for this to be part of the proposal, and I would therefore recommend, in conclusion, that we approve the bill as amended by the Chamber of Deputies. It would certainly not be a tragedy if it were approved in the Senate version, but I certainly think it would bring more complications than the House proposal has. That's pretty much technical. He's responding to a practice that's been here since 1990. Surely, it will never be satisfied with this, for the meetings are essential. There are emotions, tensions, and of course there are conflicts. Logically, between the state, between the police, between the authorities, and between those who are either taking action or who are defining themselves against the action. So let's not take the illusion that by changing the law, we're going to prevent all these problems, but there's an attempt by the Ministry to respond to the current problems that are happening here. To abuse the fact that someone blocked the venue of the event, even though it didn't take place, and prevented others from taking action. I think that's basically the way in the right direction, even if it doesn't solve 100 percent of the problems. But unfortunately, that won't solve any law, because we regulate human behavior, and that's a very variable. So, in that sense, I once again intercede for the vote in favour of the original House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-001-003.u13	Thank you. I don't see anyone else in the debate. So if no one is reporting, I am done with the debate. I'll ask the plaintiff if he wants the final word. [[No.]] It's not like that. The rapporteur? [[No.]] Not either. In that case, we will vote. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended, pursuant to the House press 510/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House press 510/6.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 172. It's logged in 170, for 10, against 138. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Therefore, we shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed in order to adopt this resolution, that is to say 101 votes. Kvorum is set. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the law of assembly, as amended, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 510/5.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 173. It's logged in 171, for 135, against 29. This proposal was adopted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you both to the Minister and to the Senator. I'm done with point 3. Before we go any further, I'll read more apologies. Minister Pelikán apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Radim Fiala between 14 and 17 a.m. on account of negotiations, Mr Klaška apologizes for personal reasons. Let's continue with point number
