ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I welcome you to this morning's meeting. Initiating session 46 of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was given to you through the MPs on Friday, April 29th, which means it's on time. I beg you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers also apply from the morning opened 44th meeting. I just want to remind you that my colleague Tejc has a replacement card number 3 as well as my colleague Kaňkovský's replacement card number 15. With regard to the next step that we must take, it is to identify the verifiers of our meeting. I propose that we designate the verifiers for the meeting of Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Jiří Petr. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we can vote in the number one vote that I have launched, and I ask who is for the proposed verifier of the meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, of the 101 Members present for 89, against no one. I note that we have appointed Members of Adolf Beznoska and Jiří Petr as verifiers of the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The apologies from today's meeting are the same as from the 44th meeting. I don't think we need to state them. We will proceed to the appointment of the 46th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It cannot be proposed to amend or supplement the agenda, nor can the approved agenda be extended. First up, a colleague of František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, if I may, of course, given that this is a very serious problem in order for you to negotiate peace in this House in a way that is at least standard or above-standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you. I'm going to ask the House for peace. Still, my colleague Birke has a replacement card number 13. I'm registering further applications for the agenda. I think it's quiet enough for you to go on, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to do something, because in spite of certain assurances, based on the previous extraordinary meetings, I have to assume that you will not approve the agenda of the meeting, so I will try, in some structured way, to present the scope of the issue here, in several basic matters. Firstly, I believe that in the EIA case, Mr Richard Brabec's current environmental minister's fatal managerial failure occurred. Mr President, I ask you to really set order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u5	I understand. I'll try to make peace for you one more time. I'll reassure you that the meeting will probably take place normally, that there are no reservations about the show. Because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u6	I'd like to ask my colleague and colleagues, it's only 261 billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u7	The Prime Minister has a replacement card number 16. I think you can talk now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. One more time. I will try to tell you some things in a structured way, because I am not sure that you will approve the agenda for this meeting, despite certain assurances that this will happen. Firstly, on this issue, I believe that the EIA case has resulted in a fatal managerial failure of the current Minister of Environment, Mr Richard Brabec. For others, the Ministry of the Environment and other ministries and governments did not pay enough attention to the problem and prepared plans for a rapid correction of the crisis situation. For more, the Ministry of Transport and the government underestimate the economic impact of the case on Czech construction, the development of Czech transport infrastructure. And I note that none of the government's Garniture cares that the entire case affects other investments such as flood-related measures and others, where it may also be invalid or outdated assessments of environmental effects. For the next, the government, with its planned actions, threatens to draw on all funds for the programming period 2013 to 2020, and also threatens to bill funds from the previous period. For another, I cannot shake the impression that governments and ministers are manipulatively informing the public about the real scale of the case and its effects. In this scenario, I'm going to try to tell you something here. Ladies and gentlemen, today, at an emergency meeting, we are to deal with a crisis in the construction of not only transport infrastructure. We reached out to this meeting of TOP 09 and ODS after, in vain, the last two months and at least two months, we have been trying to put this serious issue on the agenda of the House. Personally, I've been designing classifications three times lately, even in time variations, so I don't interfere with your government priorities. You've always rejected it. For the fourth time, I think the week before last, colleague Stanjura, also unsuccessfully. Either the leaders of the coalition parties did not realise the gravity of the situation, but the truest option is that the government is trying to cover up the fatal managerial failure of its minister, which has no equivalent in the history of the environmental resort. I personally consider the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to be the main culprit of this crisis situation. I believe that this time the coalition majority in the House will allow approval of the agenda of the meeting, at which I wish to demonstrate on the basis of official documents, that not only Minister Brabec knew about the EIA problem from the beginning of his mandate, but that he underestimated the problem that he did not do so to address the impact of the new EIA legislation effectively. [[11.10 hours]] Not only did Minister Brabec know about the problem, who wrote to me in an official reply on 10 March 2016: I would like to begin by stating that the Ministry of the Environment has regularly communicated and worked closely with all of the departments concerned since the opening of the infringement procedure in April 2013. And the following is the list: Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Interior - I do not know what the abbreviation of SMEs means, if it was also the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, Office of the Government etc. No comments were provided to the European Commission without prior knowledge of the departments concerned, or without prior approval by the entities concerned. So much for his official answer. There are other things. I would like to stress that the problem concerning the verification of old opinions on impact assessment, hereinafter referred to as the EIA opinion, issued under Act No.244/1992 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment, was not caused by Act No.39/2015 Coll., but only after many years pointed to it, with the current intensive negotiations with the Commission aiming to address it. So much quote from March 10, 2016. So the Minister was heading towards an intensive solution to the problems with the European Commission. It also states: However, there is a need to find a solution that will not endanger or stop drawing funds from European transport funds or to threaten or stop drawing on European funds as such. Moreover, the correct implementation of the EIA Directive is one of the so-called general preconditions for drawing funds from European funds in the programming period 2014 to 2020. This was about CZK 600 billion. The Commission has repeatedly made reference to the possibility of initiating the drawing-up of funds in the new programming period by fulfilling this preliminary condition, which was only possible by healing the Commission's deficiencies. In other words and in short: under certain circumstances, all operational programmes, i.e. 600 billion crowns, may be threatened. On 10 March, the Minister also responded with a six-page list of all the meetings, all the steps that the Ministry of the Environment has taken since the beginning of the infringement in April 2014, I think it was April 23rd... April 25th, 2013. [[The speaker seeks in his written material.]] Since it is an introductory word, I will not delay the analysis here, it should happen during a detailed debate. I would just ask you - another which is very interesting, in another letter, because according to the Act on Access to Public Information, I have requested materials relating to the matter, with the fact that I considered the departments concerned, or as the main departments concerned, I considered the Ministry of the Environment as the highest guarantor for environmental legislation, the Ministry of Transport, which is very affected by this, and the Ministry of Regional Development, which is from my point of view, I hope to say this, Madam Secretary, right, by guaranteeing the drawing and management of all operational programmes, including the resolution of the issues surrounding national legislation versus European legislation, and then the conditions for the drawing of funds. The fact that Minister Brabec doesn't know what he was messing with in his speeches in discussing the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act on the impact of buildings on the environment is the amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., which was finally approved as Act No. 39 in January 2015, so I am demonstrating the citation from his letter, which he gave me at the official request of the information. On this point, I quote - the letter was sent or processed on 21 March 2016: To your request to send processed impact studies and to quantify potential damage, please allow me to state that the Ministry of the Environment does not have comprehensive information about currently planned and implemented transport structures or other constructions. In this matter, I suggest you turn to the Ministry of Transport. So, please, next thing I know, the government and the responsible ministers didn't know. Very interesting is, and you can find out how the amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Some Related Acts, was carried out here in the House 25. 9. 2014 when the first reading was and then actually followed the next one. From the selected passages to those who say they've pointed it out and that those who supported the law didn't know what they were doing, so I have to say, and the Minister returns very often and likes to mediate in the past in an attempt to take responsibility away from each other, so think about what I'm quoting to you here now from his appearance on this matter. I dare say, although it is clear to me how many comments and suggestions will come about how this amendment will stop all investment actions, which is certainly not true, but the truth is that the European Commission has long been blaming us and objecting to the failure to comply with the EIA Directive, or the fundamental differences that exist in our existing EIA Directive compared to the European Directive. And I'm not pulling it out of context, and in that spirit, the defense of the novel and the soothing of all of you. So once again, I dare say that this amendment will not stop all investment actions. Table of contents. It further says: The amendment was prepared for several months by hundreds of people, not only by all the departments concerned, which is about eight resorts concerned, but also by the Confederation of Industry, Economic Chamber and many others. I dare say that today is one of the most discussed standards. If the Chamber of Commerce is shy today and the Association of Industry and Transport is performing, then I've looked up the documents, Minister Brabec is right about that, so I'd say they're all in on it. There have been repeated memoranda, probably with the chambers and professional associations, and believe me, I am well aware of what this amendment may have and will have an impact. So the minister assured us and believed that he was very aware. At the same time, we have clearly promised, and forgive me the word that this amendment will be a mere patch, a patch that will heal the biggest objections that the European Commission, the Czech Republic, has long held against us for the imperfect transposition of the European directive into our legal order. There's more and more. That means I dare say this is really a novel that should be addressed in 2015. [[11.20 hours]] And today, together with the Ministry of Regional Development, which should be sort of a gesture of a new solution, we are working intensively on - workingly I call it - a unified authorisation procedure, a system similar to Austria's today. I am deliberately saying a similar system, and now I am discussing how Austria is in favour of the European Union, that there is a problem and that we cannot take over the model. It continues: However, it is quite clear today, and the European Commission has made it clear several times, and I have the evidence, in writing, that there is a room for manoeuvre. But then there are things that are very likely to be inconvenient to the European Commission. In other words, we are in a situation where the European Union is quite clear to us: If you want our money, accept our rules. If you don't accept them, you're out of luck. With this position, we've entered. I took part in a number of meetings in Brussels, as well as in the Czech Republic, with all the organizations concerned. He continues: Let us not talk about any dictation, but simply the Czech Republic has not done anything in the long term. And now all we can talk about is whether and to what extent it is beyond the framework of the European directive. So the minister assured us in other words that he would solve it, that he had the problem under control, and as it turned out, you can see in these days and weeks. In a similar vein, there was discussion and rejection of the comments that we are both on the Economic Committee, and I was informed that the Committee on European Affairs, too, warned the Minister that if the exception for the Czech Republic had not been negotiated, what fatal consequences this could have. And one of the last parts of the show, now I don't know if it's a closing argument, I quote again from the tape screen: "We're not going to build Mantra. It's not true, we're gonna build anyway. It is a compromise between the ministries, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce. On two points, the compromise has not yet been reached, we will achieve it. The amendment to the Building Act is tuned with this EIA because we are preparing it together. The Lining Construction Act was slightly out of line, and I would like to know for myself the opinion of the new Minister of Transport. We, too, have made enough amendments and objections within the department. I guess that's it. Thank you again for this helpfulness. Have a nice evening." An ANO round of applause is noted in parentheses. So you guys put your hands together for this mess. I'd like to quote from his next speech on the amendment issue. I'm done with this part. To reach a compromise that meets both of the priorities that we started out with, on the one hand, to heal the Commission's long-term comments and objections to our standard, on the other hand, not to block definitely the business intentions in this country. Under this I would sign, Minister, if, in the coming weeks and months after these statements, you behaved accordingly, even by you. I asked in this official information all three ministries not only did not receive all the documentation I have to say, because I really wanted to ask to see the minutes that the government had set up, for example, an inter-ministerial work committee which, according to the data provided by Minister Brabec, met quite often. And I'm kind of wondering when they've been together so many times, what they've been up to, and stuff like that. But I think that even the House's negotiations should end in the final resolution with a call for all the Ministry of Resorts plus the Office of the Government to make available to the public on some website all the documents relating to the case so that everyone can see how our country is managed. In the required documents I asked, or asked, that I also be specified or issued some evidence of the economic impact that the EIA case may have on our economy, especially the construction industry, construction industry, but also on others. The only person who provided some material or wrote something was Minister Ťok, or the Department of Transport. Unfortunately, I have to say that whoever processed it has no idea how deep the crisis is not only in the construction department, if we ignore the lost years that stop the development of the much needed transport infrastructure. We've been behind the most developed countries for decades. And that slump goes on and on and on. Contra this, although I requested it, and I think that cooperation between the ministries and the government probably does not work, because if it worked, then about all three resorts, but especially the Department of Transport and the Environment, perhaps primarily the environment, would have made available the material that the government received. It was the RIA received by the government or the Ministry of Transport in November 2014 and the version with the prepared comments of the Legislative Council of the Government and its commissions then in December 2014. I don't have the RIA, I don't have the material. However, I've got some data from him somehow. And if I take the evaluation of the Ministry of Transport, the quantification of economic impacts, all buildings are based - I will quote a few things - on the EIA opinions issued under Act 244/1992 Coll., they are potentially at risk of the current situation where no agreement has been reached between the Czech Republic and representatives of DG Envi of the European Commission on the way in which it would be legitimate to proceed in the use of these older opinions. In 2016, I quote from this further, the total volume of planned financial resources at construction sites with EIA opinions according to Act No.244/1992 Coll. 11.8 billion of which is 7.5 billion. CZK on constructions whose realization has not yet begun. From these buildings with a financial allocation of 7.5 billion. in 2016, the building permit is issued for buildings with a allocation of 1.3 billion. Crowns. Building permits therefore do not have buildings that were to draw 6.2 billion from the SFDI budget in 2016. Crowns. The situation will be even worse in 2017, when the total amount of planned financial resources at EIA sites under Law 244 is expected to amount to 26.8 billion. koruna, of which 24.3 billion. CZK concerns buildings whose realization has not yet begun. From these buildings with financial allocation of 24.3 billion. In 2017, the building permit is issued for constructions with a allocation of 2.75 billion. Crowns. Building permits do not yet include buildings that were to draw CZK 21.5 billion from the budget in 2017. [[11.30 hours]] It also says here: In this context it is appropriate to note that the solution to the present complicated situation is not to finance buildings from national sources, as the current situation means that we are unable to obtain a building permit for buildings with EIA opinions according to "244." Any solutions in the form of enforcement of a law amendment that would allow the use of an opinion under Law 244 without an agreement with the European Commission would, with a high degree of probability, result in the continuation of infringement, which is linked to the threat of suspension of all hard operational programmes. So here it supports the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, or the analysis or the expression of concern, the risks that Minister Brabec warned about his time. It can only be stated, it is further said that by repeating the EIA process, we lost at least the construction season 2017 and part of the construction season 2018 in the most complicated cases in the most prepared buildings under Law 244. The delay in putting the constructions into operation will be at least 1.5 years, with complicated constructions it can be multi-annual. As far as RIA is concerned, only the processing costs of the new EIA were calculated in December 2014 by the Ministry of Transport to approximately CZK 217 million. They are not quantified or there are others, they are the cost of approval processes, the additional increase in investment costs. It is also stated that delays in road constructions mean every year - and I think we agreed that this will be discussed here by colleague Stanjura - there are very interesting percentages for railway constructions, the same thing, being between eight and nine percent each year. So the government knew about the very dangerous economic effects. You got it, Prime Minister, to the government as material in December, recalled in 2014. Yet you have not acted or acted inadequately. And today we're facing a crisis. I am just pointing out that in the current critical situation that is taking place around OKD, so that I can just tell you that if you succeed in quoting a notch in construction, it is a very important sector that contributes to the production of gross domestic product between 5% and 6% and about 6% of the economically active population is working in construction. And the average number of employees in construction is 357,624. So that's your policy of inaction, incompetence, management failure. Minister Brabec and others, perhaps under pressure from how quickly they are going to deal with this, will talk about the fact that corrective action will be taken very quickly. So I'm quoting to you how much it took in the past for at least a few EIA constructions to process and discuss the EIA under Act 244. And when you once again spread some optimism in an attempt to put away this fatal problem for possibly regional elections or others, only so much - it's the materials that are official. In the horror of what will happen, they are processed by the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic. So, for example, if I take the D3 motorway, the Strong-Hodějovice section, it's 7.2 kilometers, so for all the purchase of documentation, the documentation took at least 12 months, it's not specified here. And then a public hearing. There's no contact with Natura 2000 territory on this section on the D3 motorway, so it took 41 months. For example, D3 Hodějovice-Třebonín 12,6 kilometers, so it is at least 12 months documentation plus 21 months, also there is no Natura. Opava, 11th, bypass east side, 8 months plus 12 months documentation. But Frýdek-Místek, where there's a touch or touch of Natura, so it's at least 12 months plus 30 months. Frýdek-Místek another construction where it intersects the territory, so documentation plus 60 months, five years. Do you understand? And this way, I could go on and on and on. So when someone calls you "six months" and all that, it's just wishful thinking. Another thing I would like to mention here, which I would like to say in some words, and I was inspired by yesterday's media offensive by Minister Brabec, Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister of Transport Tžok, so I would call that part: Where did Minister Šlechtová go or did she go? In relation to the European Union coaching funds, drawing funds, etc., the Ministry of Regional Development is responsible and competent. And while I was looking at these solutions yesterday, all of a sudden from those shows, I would think that something unfair is going on, or some desperate action, when whoever's in particular responsible, who's negotiating the terms of drawing with the European Commission, where there's a first impact, if there's legislative frictions, etc., it's the Ministry of Regional Development. I think that the Minister for Transport and, in particular, the Minister for the Environment show their daily activities that they believe that the legislative acts they are preparing and implementing lead to a solution. Take a look at the situation we are in around tolls, as the competition protection authority drops one competition after another. All the more alarming is that I have not seen that part of the solution - or perhaps you will correct me, Prime Minister Sobotka - is somehow not the Minister for Local Development. And I think that you have already done enough damage in relation to the European Union to allow the decisive ministry to ignore. I hope you just didn't fit the Madam Secretary in your media script. I asked the President, a few weeks ago, when preparing the Economic Committee's agenda, that I consider the issue of invalid EIA opinions to be so crucial and critical, and he has complied with me, and we dealt with this issue last Wednesday -- as a media issue, I point out, and it is symptomatic for this case -- this matter. No one came from the ministers who promised to participate. Of course, there was a coincidence that the government was meeting. Apparently, she had even more important crisis moments to at least have the Minister of the Environment come in. He sent Deputy Blecha there, which resulted in a conflict and my hopelessness that this government is capable of solving this case. That is why I then approached the ODS with the fact that I no longer see any other way to force you to resolve this crisis quickly and to try to resolve this crisis rather than an extraordinary meeting. [[11.40 hours]] And the Association of Entrepreneurs in the Construction of the Czech Republic, which, I assume, was also in the amendment to the Act of January 2015, came there and the Association for the Development of Infrastructure, with some very desperate attempt for me to write a law on short notice - and I beg for peace... Lex EIA, who would make use of the provisions in the EIA European Directive Article 2 (1). Where a derogation is possible, without prejudice to Article 7 of this Directive, in the case of a plan adopted with a specific national legislative act, Member States may exempt it from the provisions of this Directive. Possibility to exclude from the scope of the EIA Directive those projects which have been adopted by a special law. I believe the government is catching on to this attempt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u9	I'll ask the House for peace, my colleague. I know this is a long time for you. I'll tell you what, spare card number. 20 has a colleague Radek Vondráček. And please leave my colleague František Laudát...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u10	I'd like to ask, I'm really coming to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u11	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u12	So there have even seen some of the provisions of the resolution adopted, which I think should be a stepping stone for a possible solution and a possible resolution here in the House, if you release the program. So there has been a huge controversy, Mr Deputy Blecha, and I also believe that it will be very difficult to impose such a law on this crisis article of the European directive. [[Help from the O.R.: Smrž.]] Excuse me, Deputy Smrž, I'm sorry, Blecha is from MMR. And that it's a very dangerous and risky move, that it doesn't give him much of a chance. This article for exceptional situations is intended for natural disasters and disasters. Personally, I believe that the Prime Minister and Minister Brabec should have sat in Brussels long ago and not come back before negotiating with the European Commission to deal with this crisis situation, which has not happened today. So I apologize for messing up the names, but the undersecretaries after personnel purges are so new, I don't even know them all anymore. And if I'm talking about what the role will be, and I want the Prime Minister here to say, Minister Šlechtová... So, ladies and gentlemen, after experience with the other press conference players and their legal awareness, I would strongly urge that the Ministry of Regional Development be the guarantor towards the European Union. I've just been taking a preliminary look at the evidence provided by the Ministry of Regional Development on this matter, and given that part of the House doesn't really care, it's just a short cut. If the Minister then says I'm wrong, but I'm assuming that you can stop pumping for all operational programs with really unsubstantiated, unnegotiated steps. That you may even be able to jeopardize the billing and reimbursement of a number of programs from the past period. The answer, which is also from March, also on 21 March 2016, so the public believes that the government has succeeded with regard to European funds, drawdowns, last-minute miracles, and that by some ten billion everything has been exhausted. Who knows that at the time of the MMR's reply, so they have not yet been certified, maybe the situation is only recognised in the transport department, the CZK 27 billion event, and it cannot be ruled out, at least in my opinion, and I would like to be wrong, I would like to be wrong that the final problem could also be accompanied by the settlement of projects from the previous programming period. So in conclusion, I'm going to remind you of what I said at the very beginning. I believe that there has been a fatal managerial failure in the EIA case, especially to the Minister of Environment Brabec. It's in a sharp lineup with what Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš promised the voters that he'd put in a position of helpless managers and all that. How could you let this happen is absolutely incredible. What did you do for two years and a half, almost what you're in government, and why now at the last minute? Then why didn't you come to the novel at the same time as some hint of a solution? And, Minister, I've explained to you here that he shared the opinion of the previous ministers that you're just gonna figure it out. How is it possible that the government wasn't involved? In December 2014, she got RIA on the table when it was warned about economic impacts. You have already agreed in November 2014 that you have set up an inter-ministerial task force. Who was monitoring her activity, who was running it? Why did you let it get this far? And now you're going to be making excuses for some years, 2006, 7, 8. Are you kidding people or something? The government is putting its planned actions at risk - and I would very much like the resolution to have a consistent appeal, as approved by the Economic Committee, that everything must be in line and pre-negotiated with the European Commission. And I reject any attempt to make you say that it's Brusel' fault that he's using retroactivity. There you sat and there you should have negotiated those key conditions when approving and certifying the programming period of 2016. And as for what I said last time. The government and ministers manipulatively inform the public about the real extent of the case and its impact. This is where I explained it. And today, if you look at billboards, then you see this. [[It shows a picture of a billboard on which YES promises highways.]] But the reality is this. You should put this in there! [[He's showing the map.]] This map of trouble! Your resort worked it out. This is the real thing, what you did. Modern Czech Republic. And not what you wag a dog and feed people. It's really a very serious problem. And then it's no wonder that even as a smile on Czech television it sounds that Kalousek was actually there in 2008 and was supposed to solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u13	That was Mr. František Laudát. We will continue with the priority rights prior to the approval of the agenda. First is Mr Marek Černoch, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, hello, thank you for the floor. My performance won't be as long as my fellow Laudateo. [[Screaming from the left side of the hall: That's a shame.]] I don't think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u15	I would ask that we not shout at each other, I would like to achieve that we approve the agenda of the meeting. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u16	The environmental impact assessment process is a long-term unsolved and lengthy problem where individual government ministers and the Czech Republic have been ignoring the European Parliament's directives since 1985 as such. The impact of buildings on the environment is built with absolute disdain and ignorance. If it really mattered to the government that transport structures should be built, that they should be built with the European Union's financial assistance, which the government is constantly patronising and wielding, but only when it suits it, it would do everything in its power to prevent it from being created by the European Union by rejecting the views on the construction projects submitted and the laws passed that are directly related to transport structures and the environment. [[11.50 hours]] The problem is that the government still stubbornly adheres to old laws, designs one route instead of several variants, does not communicate with the public and pushes through defective projects. This leads to public resistance to road and highway construction, an increase in litigation, a slowdown in the issuance of territorial decisions, building permits, and a general distrust of citizens for government policy on health and the environment. Neither repeated Commission letters in 2006-2007 nor the judgment of the Court of Justice in 2010 on the failure of the Czech Republic to fulfil its obligations to process the European Environmental Impact Assessment Directive have aroused the government's satisfaction. In 2015 the Czech Republic will issue paragraphs in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where, in a transitional provision, it will commend the recognition of the EIA under faulty and bad laws that both the Commission and the Council have criticised. Transport constructions, which are in the number of over 100 in the price of over 250 billion. CZK, they have the EIA in 2016 according to the law of 1992. We cannot then be surprised that we are reaping a legitimate criticism of the refusal to finance such buildings and, at the same time, the distrust and criticism of citizens. The main obstacle to construction is not civil movements, environmentalists and critics of government policy, although they can also flood you very much, but ministers of this government. You need to stop lying to yourself and admit that trouble needs to be dealt with. We need to stop figuring out how to circumvent the European Union's subsidy programmes and the Council's directives. We really need to start working on new EIA and new projects as soon as possible. As the main problem... We don't know either, colleague, who you're telling me. [[Members of the Chalup who made a comment from the bench.]] As a major problem, we see that there is no letter from the European Commission, on which buildings must be assessed on the impact on the environment and on which they do not. I don't know if any of you got that letter, but we're cooking out of the water here. We don't know what the letter says. That is why I ask which buildings the European Union wants new opinions on. The problem may be that the Commission will not give money for construction without the new EIA, which would mean a stop sign for all new buildings. It is also possible that Minister Ťok wants to pay for YES money which is not approved by the European Union and will never be reimbursed. Today, the Minister can claim that everything is okay, the constructions will be paid out of the state budget, but the future lack of money from the European Union will go to the head of the next government. We therefore also dare to propose a resolution. Not the resolution that something should be done and no one was responsible. Unfortunately, the situation that currently exists and which does not really make anyone responsible, regardless of OKD, whether it concerns other cases, is certainly not the way. That's why I'm taking the liberty of reading the resolution, if I may...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u17	You can, of course, say anything as a member of the MP's club, but it won't work because the agenda is not approved. So maybe we'll cut it short by leaving it in the debate. But as you wish, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u18	Okay. So I will read the resolution after the debate so that we can shorten it and make it fall on fertile ground. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights from the Civic Democratic Party Club, my colleague Kováčik will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Too late, but still, Minister of the Environment. I must appreciate that after 13 months of the law's effectiveness, you have awakened and admit that there is a problem, and in the last few days you are looking for a solution. But it's really late. At first, he won't let me comment on your constant excuses for the past. If you look at the nice colored paper you gave us today, you'll read two dates. Infringement, the other one, because the first one was stopped, started in 2006, by the way, and that was after your coalition partner's reign, just to remind us of political history. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: July.]] 2006 was the first infringement launched. It's written by your minister, Prime Minister. And if you hadn't bothered me, it would have been more pleasant for me. [[The Prime Minister is supplying something off the microphone.]] Yes, in July 2006. Before that, how long did you rule? But I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, to warn the Prime Minister that he shouldn't shout at me like that because it's really hard to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u21	I would ask everyone to address the other Members through the President so that we can finish the opening words in peace and return to the vote on the agenda for the meeting. Please continue, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u22	So the first infringement was launched in 2006 and ended in 2012, with the Czech Republic fulfilling the things that were accused of it. And the other one started - and I have the exact date and I agree with the material that the Minister of the Environment gave you - April 25, 2013. Our government ended on July 10, 2013, which is less than three months, but in the dictum of ministers for YES - you should have solved it in those three months, we were two and a half years after the election, but we had little time... It's just a short field trip to the past. We are again with our favorite European funds. I've already talked about it once, how many saviors are in this government and how much money has been saved or not saved. Remember how the Minister of the Environment persuaded us to approve the EIA amendment: if we do not approve, we will not draw money. When you look at the tapestry, many of us said: if we approve this bill - and this is just a reminder of the legislative path, wasn't there a complex amendment that went outside the standard legislative circle and which actually rewritten the original proposal, the excellent, modern, great, best in Europe? I think so, if you look in the anals and the stews in the Chamber of Deputies. And we were saying at the time: if, dear colleagues, you will approve a bill that is perhaps the toughest in the European Union, and the Minister of the Environment certainly has an analysis of all similar laws of the Member States at his office and can proudly commend himself if he considers it a matter of praise that we have one of the toughest, if not the hardest, law on the assessment of the impact on the EIA. A turkish worse Turek. Again. And what are we in danger of at this point? It's come to our attention. That's what the government said. It is at risk - not drawing money. I agree with that. I think there's a way to spend the money on less significant constructions, repairs, maintenance. But we are getting into a situation that we have unfortunately experienced in the past period at all levels, that it draws on what it can draw on, and does not draw on those priorities that either the state, the region, the municipality, the city would set. And the investment program adapts to what we can get money for. That's what you do. And what we can't get money for for different reasons, it just costs. I think we agree in the Chamber of Deputies on what the backbone road and rail network in the Czech Republic should look like, there is no political dispute about that. And that if we're going to use the European money for anything, it's going to be to complete the key buildings. 35 first. Unfortunately, two sections that could have been built are already at risk, too. Only two that are de facto prepared or could be prepared for construction. Very often, our government politicians, but also the House, go to Austria and say what is the priority of connecting the Czech Republic with Austria. Completely infallible, all sections from České Budějovice towards Austria are at risk of being delayed. I'm not saying it's never gonna build. But there's a real delay. I do not share the optimism, as Minister Ťok said last time, that our friendly environmental organisations will certainly understand and will help with their very constructive approach that these negotiations will be quick, effective, smooth. Well, if that were the case, all right. I don't think any of us can wish for anything else. But reality, I'm afraid, will be different. So we're at risk of not drawing on what we need to draw on, and maybe we'll use up the money somehow at the cost of moving between programs, between axes, and so on. What do I see in this failure, especially the Minister of the Environment? He must have known all this. Today I will read that it is preparing an accelerated legislative solution. No offense. If you bring him in, he'll have a head and a heel, I think we'll support him. But it's really so simple that after you didn't do it, you didn't negotiate anything, so maybe in the '90s you'll run through the House Law, where we'll name for example. 11 sections of infrastructure and done? And Brusel will accept that? Painted? [[12.00 hours]] If that's the case, fine. But what's 13 months doing here? That could have been 13 months already! That's still the same process we knew 13 months ago and we know today. But I say right away, if you bring it in, we won't block it. We're just quite skeptical if it works, and if, based on the law adopted, all those DJ environmental officials and the others say yes, that's okay, they've approved an exception. Let's put in 50 buildings, not 11! Where did we get number 11? How do the other buildings that aren't on that list come up with this? After all, our common interest is that this concerns all buildings. And that's what we should be dealing with. We're only in an emergency meeting because you didn't want to discuss it at the normal point of the proper meeting. That's what you have to say. And we didn't call a meeting to tell the Prime Minister here, call it off, call it off, punish him! We've called it in to offer you help again, just as we did with the myth. You turned it down at the myth. Then maybe you won't turn it down here. I'd like that. You yourself had the RIA processed in 2014, I have an exact date somewhere, that was during this government, which dealt with economic and macroeconomic impacts on line constructions. And from the material that you yourself ordered and paid for, it came out that for road constructions if you cut the preparation time by one year, respectively. If you start implementing one year earlier, you will save about 8 percent of the investment costs. For railway constructions 8,7 per cent. They're Sobotkův's government numbers. But the opposite is true. If you extend it by a year, you'll raise the investment costs by 8 percent for motorway constructions and 8.7% for railway constructions. And that is not acceptable to the Czech Republic. Because if we're optimistic and say it's going to take two years, the new EIA, you're already 16 percent. Really, there are new requirements, a bear bridge, and such things that are very often occurring, a new convention, another convention of more conventions. And to get it, we're gonna have to project again. And not only will we pay for the EIA's impact assessment, that we will eventually pay for new projects, but we will also increase the estimated investment costs for the specific actions. And there's no guarantee that we're gonna get that European money for those new EIA events, with a new project, with a new cost estimate. But the moment we launch the new EIA process, the valid ones we have will just stop paying. That's not two-way communication. It's a one-way street. So if we decide the old ones don't pay, we don't have a way back. And we will hope and be optimistic that it will go quickly, it will not cost us so much money and maybe we will get the European money. I have repeatedly talked about the transport resort, but the whole Czech Republic should start preparing for the period from 2023. I know it looks like a six-year-old fiction tonight. There will be no European money for transport infrastructure! We need to reform the financing of transport infrastructure completely over the past six years. And that's not an assignment for one government. More political agreement must be found to find a model that will allow us to then have significant money for construction in 2022 or maybe 2023, but also maintenance of transport infrastructure. And because I know how many times the ministers in question drove when the first infringement was at risk of actually losing, how many meetings they personally had with the Commissioner, with the Commissioners, with colleagues from other states, I ask a simple question: How many meetings did the Prime Minister take on the EIA in Brussels? How many meetings did the Minister of the Environment personally attend? And how many meetings did the Minister of Transport personally attend? I don't know the answer. When I know her, then I'll comment or say yes, from my point of view it was enough, or from my point of view it wasn't enough. I was talking about it a few days ago at another point. We are the European Union, too. It's not someone imaginary who commands us to do something. And I think it's not normal for us to accept the principle of retroactivity. That's really not normal. It is not possible in the Czech Republic! This has already been judged repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, and anyone who brings a proposal into legislation knows that this is not possible. Here at once we are ready to accept the principle of retroactivity and say and put ashes on our heads: Well, we have them old and it's been a long time! And only the Slovák have so old! But they're valid! That's the key adjective. Not that they're old, but that they're valid. And it wasn't easy to get them. And if we reopen the process, I'm not saying that on all of them, but on many sections, there could be a delay of five or more years. I think it is our common interest to reject this principle as the Czech Republic, as the Chamber of Deputies. I know that I will read it in the debate, if you approve the programme, but according to the signals I have, the programme will be approved, so that you colleagues can think so that I do not read it two seconds before the vote itself, so we have prepared three motions for resolutions. The first two would like them to vote together. And the third to vote separately. The first two concern Brussels, the European Commission, and the third concerns domestic policy. The proposed resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic strongly rejects the principle of retroactivity that the European Commission applies to the Czech Republic on the issue of EIA opinions'. He notes that: "This is an approach that the European Commission is acting in direct conflict with Czech national interests.' A b) to appreciate the work of our ministers: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has completely failed to address the EIA's positions. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u23	I thank Mr Stanjur. One more priority right is Pavel Kováčik, chairman of the KSČM parliamentary club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I'll be very short. I will justify why the KSČM MP will support this time the programme of this extraordinary meeting. This meeting was convened with the aim of answering questions relating to the current legislation and conditions of the European Commission on environmental impact assessment, the EIA. The questions were raised by the situation that occurred in the preparation and implementation of the road and rail transport infrastructure project. And it is in the Department of Transport that the impact that threatens, in fact, the biggest, the hardest, the worst, is directly threatened by the implementation of 65 infrastructure buildings worth about 90 billion. Crowns. We believe in the club KSČM that it is necessary to unblock the said situation, that it is necessary not to stop the preparation and implementation of the transport constructions. And the situation surrounding the adoption of amendments to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is no novelty here, as is the way in which these amendments are notified at the level of the European Commission. It is a very warning outcome of negotiations with the European Commission and, above all, the impact on the practice of preparing transport structures. I believe that the impacts go to other departments, where the approval and implementation of projects is a condition for obtaining opinions on environmental impact assessment. It should be noted, to note, that the Chamber of Deputies, through the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been taking into account the potential risks associated with a very lax approach - and I must say here that it was both an environmental resort and a local development department - in preparing and notifying amendments to the EIA's opinions since 2014. At the same time, a much harder and more active approach to negotiations on the conditions for the application of the EIA Directive was required and the issue of the verification of the EIA was repeatedly required to be resolved by active cooperation between environmental ministries, local development, the Ministry of Transport and also by the European Commission on the grounds of the initial drawdown of European Union funds from the Operational Programme Transport in 2014 to 2020. In particular, because of the many years of financing the construction of transport infrastructure from European Union funds. We have regularly been assured, as Members of Parliament, by representatives of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Regional Development, that the notification in the European Commission will take place without significant consequences for administrative proceedings here in the Czech Republic. [[12.10 hours]] Now briefly on the development of conditions for creating opinions on the environmental impact. From 1. 7. 1992 until 31. 12. 2001 the EIA processes were initiated and conducted under the original Environmental Impact Assessment Act, i.e. Act No. 244/1992 Coll., and the last EIA opinion was issued under this Act in 2006. For these EIA opinions, the period of validity was not limited by law. Nor by the transitional provisions of Act No. 100/2000 Coll. the period of validity has not been limited and I must say that neither in any of the other amendments to this Act number 100 has been limited by the period of validity. Although most EIA opinions under Act No.244/1992 Coll. for transport constructions was issued around 2000, to this day, these EIA opinions, due to their unlimited validity, are presented as one of the documents in terms of environmental impact. At the same time, however, they are added to the follow-up of a study assessing the current environmental impact of the construction, on the basis of which the binding opinions of the public authorities concerned are updated. At the same time, the buildings are at different levels of preparation - some are in the construction process, some are only in the territorial procedure. Before issuing a valid binding opinion under Act No.39/2015 Coll., the EIA amendment, it is necessary to verify the practical usability of the original EIA opinion, which means to verify the quantity, size and significance of changes to the intention and changes in the territory concerned. This need arises from the long duration of preparation and approval of the projects, when the EIA's opinion has expired around 12, 13, 14, 15 years, sometimes even more, and with that period the likelihood of changes in the intention, changes in the territory and their significance and changes in the requirements of legislation is growing. It is therefore not possible to resign in order to verify the material usability of the EIA's position, as it is not possible to make binding terms of the EIA's opinion, whose factual usability has not been verified or is in doubt. In order to verify the usability of the EIA's old opinion, investors shall submit to the competent authorities current documentation assessing the environmental impact of the construction at present and, if significant changes are identified in this verification, the EIA's opinion shall be factually and formally unusable and shall not be accepted, i.e. verifying a binding opinion under the EIA amendment. The fundamental requirement of the European Commission for funding from European Union funds is to ensure compliance of these projects with European legislation, i.e. with the EIA Directive, and this compliance cannot be ensured without further delay in the EIA opinions issued before the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. Therefore, the Czech Republic is trying to convince the European Commission of the fulfilment of the requirements of the EIA directive in follow-up proceedings. Here I must point out that the Czech Republic has become a Member State in May 2004 after the process of accession between Member States, or in a number of cases, the processes started long before the Czech Republic joined the European Union. The situation that is now raises a number of possible questions. I am merely saying in this position, in this position, which is issued by the KSČM club by my mouth before approving the programme, that it is precisely to take part in the defence of the interests of the Czech Republic, of the Czech national interests which are here contrary to what is required of us, or as we are threatened, that we will support and ask further questions in the debate, this time more specific questions. We will also support the proposed resolutions, which have come into our hands and which are in line with our view and our programme. At this point, I would like to emphasise once again that the KSČM will support the emergency meeting programme and look forward to a substantive and detailed discussion of all those who have the right to speak in this discussion to deliver opinions. And I assure you that in this regard we are in line with most others, at least what I had the opportunity to verify, the parliamentary clubs, that we will all defend the interests of the Czech Republic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-000-000.u25	Thank you to President Kováčik. I will make two further apologies from today's meeting, Mr Jandák and Mrs Radka Maxová, at 12 o'clock. Since no one with priority rights is currently applying, I will take the opportunity to vote on the draft agenda, as stated on the invitation. I'll get back on track. I think the present is fine. [[There's a lot of MPs coming into the hall.]] I've started voting number two, and I'm asking who's on the agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2, 147 for 129, against no one. The agenda has been approved.
