ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u1	240. Report on the situation in the field of internal security and public order in the Czech Republic in 2015 (as compared to 2014) /German press 831/ This material will be provided by the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the report on the situation in the Czech Republic on internal security and public order in 2015 compared to the previous year. The situation in the field of internal security and public order remained favourable and stable in 2015. As in previous years, there was no serious breach of public order in 2015. The significant topic of 2015 was so called. migration wave and terrorist attacks in France in January and November, with a wide range of impacts for the Czech Republic. In the area of extremism, the whole scene and the growth of populist political movements and parties have been transformed. These movements attract supporters to anti-migrant and anti-Islamic rhetoric, which, however, do not differ significantly from extremely right-wing movements. From the perspective of crime development, the decline in registered deeds is characteristic for 2015. In 2015, a total of 247 628 offences were registered. This is the lowest number of registered offences since 1991. The decrease in crime compared to 2014 amounts to 14,2 %. The overall clarity of crime, including exemplified crimes, reached 50,9 percent. Since the decline in overall crime has been registered, a slight increase in Vice Crime has been observed by 2,3%. The biggest decline in registered crimes in 2015 was simple thefts, minus 18,2 percent, for burglary thefts minus 30 percent. In the Czech Republic, therefore, the vast majority of types of traditional crime are falling, but crime is being moved to cyberspace. The reason for this is the gradual relocation of the population's activities to cyberspace, which uses a new generation of criminals who commit crime by modern methods and electronic means. The increase in cybercrime is 15.5% compared to 2014. It is the biggest increase in one area of crime in the Czech Republic. The number of persons prosecuted has decreased to 101 833, which is 12 728 less, and thus a percentage of 11.1 percent. Damages caused by crime have decreased by 1.8 billion. Police of the Czech Republic also dealt with more than 1 million 300,000 offences, of which 80 percent of these offences concerned violations of road traffic rules. To be completed, I provide up-to-date information on the development of detected crime in the first half of 2016. Here, too, there is a further decline, about 11.4 percent compared to the comparable half-year in 2015. This is therefore the lowest number of offences detected in the last ten years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u3	The report was discussed by the Security Committee, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 831/1. I now ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Václav Klučka, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present the House's resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Committee on Security at the 32nd meeting held on 31 August 2016 by resolution 125 took note of the Report on the Situation of Internal Security and Public Order in the Czech Republic in 2015. He has commissioned the Chairman of the Security Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and has ordered the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I am doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am launching a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment here on the latest report on internal security in the Czech Republic, which is called the findings of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, as it contains many remarkable information. In 2015, foreigners living in the Czech Republic participated in total crime in our Republic 7.4 percent. This is therefore an increase in the criminal activity of foreigners in our Republic. On the contrary, for citizens of the Czech Republic, the number of persons prosecuted or convicted last year decreased year-on-year. The above is remarkable from the point of view that only 4.4 percent of foreigners live relative to the population in the Czech Republic, so, simply speaking, foreigners living in the Czech Republic have such a great crime as citizens of the Czech Republic and their crime is constantly increasing statistically. In this situation, Sobotkův and Babišův's government decided to accept other and other foreigners, i.e. migrants, this time from Arab and African countries. It can therefore be simply said, but quite truthfully, that Sobotkův's government is directly involved in increasing criminality in the Czech Republic and thus acts explicitly against the interests of decent and proper citizens who want to live in safety. Last year, more than 8,000 illegal foreigners were found in our territory, namely 8 563, an increase of 56 percent. Of course, we all know that this is just the tip of the iceberg, because the vast majority of illegal aliens moving in the Czech Republic will not be able to capture at all. I am also glad that the police report also directly confirms the truthfulness of the political programme of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, when it is clearly stated in the report that it is actually impossible to integrate such a large number of foreigners from culturally different countries into our society. And the report adds, quote from the report, that this leads to the creation of closed communities that are hostile to the European cultural environment. It turns out again that what I and our SPD movement have been promoting since the beginning is completely correct, i.e. zero tolerance for migration within the current migration wave. We also promote a ban on promoting Islamic Sharia law in the Czech Republic. Sobotkův's government, however, is deaf and blind and continues to accept African and Arab migrants to the Czech Republic. We in our SPD movement make it clear: money to our people, not immigrants. But back to the police report. Remarkable are other data that, once again, only confirm what I have been saying all along. In Europe, in addition to the citizens of the European Union, the citizens of Syria with a legal residence in a country of the European Union have been mostly detained. Interestingly, Sweden's citizens are also at the top of the list of aiding illegal migration, while the police report itself states that according to their names it is possible to conclude their Arabic origins. It is therefore true that these people are only using the benevolent European system and parasitic on it in order to promote further illegal migration from Arab countries to Europe. I was very surprised once again when I read in this most recent police report that Sobotkův and Babišův's government - I quote - distributes material abroad for preparing potential migrants in the country of origin aimed at raising their awareness - the end of the quote. This is indeed another incredible and I would even say the completely scandalous act of this government. The next paragraph states that people can find various possibilities of funding projects for the integration of foreigners into the Czech Republic on the web. Such a government act is directly against the interests of most citizens of the Czech Republic. It's an extreme act. I would also like to stop by the information Security Information Services, the BIS, which, according to the report, found Muslims sympathizing with the ideas of the Islamic State last year. The report specifically states that these are Czech converts, i.e. Čech who have transferred to Islam and Muslims of the younger generation living in the Czech Republic. In the current report, the Czech Security Information Service evaluates these people living in the territory of the Czech Republic as potential carriers of risks associated with terrorist activity. What can I say in conclusion? Again and again, the need to promote the political agenda of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, which quite openly and without political correctness promotes a secure, prosperous, just and sovereign Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u7	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The report is called the Report on the Public Order Situation in 2015, with the Minister's outline of some public order tendencies that intersected until the first half of 2016. I would like to share his optimism, but unfortunately I think that the decline compared to 2015 and the lowest number of crimes in the last ten years is not that the citizens of the Czech Republic have behaved more morally, that they have committed fewer crimes, but because they have stopped trusting the Police of the Czech Republic in some cases and stopped reporting individual matters with which they should turn to the police. Why did they stop turning to the police? They stopped turning to her because, as the Civil Democratic Party has tried in recent years to remove the police from various agendas that may not be carried out by someone else, this government is trying to add and add to the agenda of the Police of the Czech Republic through gradual steps. I have now had several meetings within Prague 2, where I am mayor, and of course I am very interested in the area of security. I was terrified, Minister, that the base in the capital city of Prague was approaching the number of thousands. We have a thousand less police officers in the capital of Prague than we should have. Only in the district of Prague 2 is 75 police officers and police officers, 25 of which we have in schools. You know what the problem is? The problem is, on the one hand, there's a national office, a national central office, that's going to solve crime, both the one that was at the ÚOOZ and the one that was at the OKFK. No offense, we've discussed this here several times, and I think it's okay that this is how it's going to be constitutionalized. But the problem is, Mr. Police President, or the new director of this headquarters, gave the police an incentive to raise their salary by 6,000. So what do you think happened, Minister? Experienced CSIs from those circuits went to headquarters at that time, so every week, every month I learn about the number minus how many CSIs we have in Prague 2. It really doesn't seem appropriate to me that the area of public order should be dealt with by city police, as it has been in recent weeks, that it actually replaces the state police of the Czech Republic. Of course, this has to do with the issues relating to the new threats that you have also mentioned. I would really like to ask that someone deal with the police's personnel policy. Yesterday, as part of the discussion on the state budget, a colleague Ondráček spoke a lot about this. The starting salary of police officers in the capital city of Prague is CZK 14,800. Colleagues and colleagues, at a time when individual choirs compete with each other in the recruitment of individual men and women, fit and mentally competent, tell me on which side the Police of the Czech Republic is on the hierarchy. All the way to the last one. Of course, soldiers are better off, customs are better off, firefighters are better off. Perhaps it's worse than the Czech Republic's only prison service, and the Minister of the Interior knows that. I think that if, in the coming years, we should be discussing reports on the situation in the area of public policy and we should calm down and cheer and send positive signals to the public that we have had a fall in criminal offences over the last ten years, then it is really necessary not to recruit those police officers only verbally, but to recruit them physically. And in order to be able to recruit them physically, we need to create conditions for them to go to the police. [[11.50 hours]] The starting salary is what it is. After 13 months, they may reach some amount of 17, 18,000 gross. You know, in the capital of Prague in the past there was a differentiation regarding the contribution to the so-called riskiness, I suspect. This differentiation had the opportunity for individual regional directors to be able to appreciate a police officer in places with a greater idea of criminality. And now, in fact, in the last two years, this differentiation has fallen completely. I know that it is being discussed and is going into the government of the amendment to the Service Act, where this differentiation should be re-solved, just as things relating to overtime should be dealt with there. But I would really like to hear from you the assurance that we will not, as the Czech Republic, be in a situation that, when we approve here the report on the public order situation in 2016, or our successors, so that we will see the total decline in the number of police officers serving in the cities, where, of course, the service is, perhaps we agree, more complicated, there are many more of those criminofactors. And we don't appreciate these people. On the other hand, the experienced CSIs, the people who make up the pillar of individual crime scenes in the districts, are robbing our headquarters - I'm sorry for the word, but I can't think of another - because someone is going to offer them six thousand more de facto for the same job. You are very well aware, Minister, that the headquarters will be able to delegate according to the law the various offences to the circuits, whereas the circuits cannot say: we are few, we will not deal with it, the central will deal with it. The police officer is either on the maid or he's not. And we all have to work together to get that officer to sit there. Also, I don't know if you've heard the last of the reports that there's been a relapse between the insurance companies and the traffic police, which causes that even though there's legislation here, you don't have to call the police to traffic accidents where there's no crime, only to conduct offenses and whose damage isn't more than 100 grand. It was exactly the proposal that our government advocated, because we took it as one of the ways to take down the police, so that the police could have more effect on the public order. In the last year, and so it is the whole year 2016, this matter is going back to the way it was, because insurance companies recommend to their clients that they call a member of the Police of the Czech Republic for every traffic accident, to the slightest knock and write a record. Of course, if a citizen gets into surgery, it's hard for a member of the Police of the Czech Republic to tell him I'm not going anywhere. There's a law in place where he has to go to that place, he's got to assess the situation, he's got to file a record of it. And this is all an agenda that has grown again for nothing to the police. I don't really know if you have that information, but I'd like to ask you, and I don't even think it's about changing the law, that it's probably just about meeting the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Interior and the representatives of insurance companies at some round table, saying no, gentlemen and ladies, and it worked the same way that it works for the abuse of the Fire Rescue Service, so those people can get it to pay off and not transfer the agenda from the insurance company back to the state. I'm begging you, because we actually count every cop we can have in the field in Prague today. And by terrain, I don't mean that every morning they'll de facto go all day to traffic accidents that are a lot in Prague, and they're really accidents that, with their scope, without injury, aren't significant. And here's what I think would really help the police to have the possibility of these people doing something more useful in that slump of employees. I am, of course, glad that the number of crimes is falling in ten years, on the other hand, I cannot mention my subject, in which I also hope to agree with the Minister that if crime is falling here, crime is falling, I do not understand why we are building up in laws, such as weapons. On the one hand, the lowest number of crimes, on the other hand, we have tightened the arms and ammunition law this semester, even allowing policemen to break home freedom. I ask why, if the police show the lowest number of crime detected in ten years. I mean, this works the same way everywhere. When something goes down, there's no increase in the number, but I'm thinking of giving the public a chance to have the law more benevolent than harder. We really didn't do it here. I happen to suspect that today the fight for the European Directive is taking place on European Commission soil. So, if by any chance, Minister, you have some fresh information, please in a few sentences, if you could also tell us something about the European directive. I am taking advantage of the fact that we are actually talking about this situation that concerns public order. We also know that things that were related to those gun crimes were falling down very strong words. The words that fell were that the situation in Uherské Brod would not be repeated, which you will not ensure by law, where the policeman would be able to enter the residence. You will ensure that, Minister, that you equip the police, that the police will have adequate ballistic protection, that the police will have rifles, long rifles that you said you wanted to get them. But they won't be placed in the trunks of the car by the time the cop opens his suitcase in those gloves, he's gonna open the other three vaults to pull out the long gun, so the perpetrator's gonna get away. Really, your statements after Uherský Brod were very strong, and I think it was okay, you wanted to calm the situation down. But how much of what you promised the cops back then, Mr. Secretary, did you fulfill? How much of this really happened so that the police got ballistics that they got more ammo, how many training programs did they have? Because we can agree that if we have people and they don't leave the police, they'll be well equipped, so we need to train them, we need to keep working with these people. There's no way a cop would refuse to participate in the procedure. And if we really do not want there to be any tragedy in the report on the public policy situation for 2016 or 2017 that will not only happen to citizens of the Czech Republic, but also to those members of the Security Corps, then I would like to assure you that you really mean the equipment, those promises you made to them a year and a half ago, that they are still valid and how, as Home Secretary, you will ensure that they actually have the equipment in the near future. [[12.00 hours]] A separate chapter in this topic would certainly be the discussion of the situation in the field of public order. I think our country has a very good police academy. On the other hand, I don't know if the happiest solution is that the Home Office started setting up high schools. Competition of secondary schools, public schools, where a future member can actually pass and document the exam anywhere, was sufficient. I consider the establishment of police secondary education to be a waste of funds, which you could otherwise, Minister, put in people, in salaries, in the starting salaries, so that those people don't get in at 14,800. I think that police secondary education would only be effective if the four-year education cycle recognised something for the entry course, which the same future police officers must have completed for 13 months. So, actually, someone's gonna make a graduation for the State's money, for the Home Office's money, which you're gonna miss elsewhere, so that he doesn't actually have to join the police. And the only advantage, if he joined the police force, is that he may already know some of the skills he learned at that high school. They could have been taught at TRIVIS, which is a private high school, but the difference is they pay for it - now I don't know if the tuition is CZK 50,000 a year. So I'd like to have a debate on this, too. If the efficiency of the secondary education system is really well set up for the public order, whether we can get by in Holešov or not without police secondary education in Hrdlořecích. And if there's any guarantee that if people actually graduate from high school for free, they'll get a graduation report card, then if they actually join the police. Because there's no contract here. They don't have a duty to join the police, and I feel like it's a shame. It's just as bad that some of this education isn't going to count on them in the 13 months as it worked in its own way, or I believe it will work again, in the Army of the Czech Republic. At the end of my speech, I would like to thank all the police and police for the fact that they still stuck with the police, for not giving up on the promises of the Ministry of the Interior that they received in the past months. And I really hope and believe that the Minister is a man of his word and that only some subjective circumstances did not allow the Minister to carry out the things he promised the police two years ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you, too, Madame. Another duly signed up for the debate is... [[The Interior Minister Milan Chovanec wakes up.]] Would you like to speak with priority rights, Minister? [[No.]] Well, in that case, Mr. Ondráček and then your priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u10	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister. After my colleague got off, I'll be, I suppose, more brief. Because, although each of the different political spectrum, if we're talking about professional topics, we can basically do a notation. So I confirm what my colleague Mrs Černochová said, and I'm just gonna stop by, I've done five short bounces that I would just mention. It has already been mentioned, but it is certainly worth recalling again, the statistical decline, or the statistically reported decline in the idea of crime and the clarified crimes really has a great meaning that some of the quotes are simply no longer reported by the citizen. And the police are very well aware of that. Because if you look at the written material Strategy for the Development of the Police of the Czech Republic 2016-2020, I do not know how many pages, but exactly how I have a bit of photographic memory, I remember that it is downstairs, and even highlighted, where the petitioner himself states that behind the mentioned decrease in the idea of crime may paradoxically be the reason that the citizen simply resigned from announcing the crime. 'Cause if he comes to the police with that badass crime, he often spends one shift either on the police officer or on his own, and after eight, ten hours, and sometimes even insensitive access, he's basically wondering if it was worth it. Because if he has a good cover for the property by insurance, then basically a confirmation from the police is just the administrative need for him to prove it. But let's also admit that there are especially recreational objects where there's basically nothing left to steal in 25 years. Because those objects have already been visited by property offenders 20 or ten times, and there's basically nothing there anymore. And many of the owners of such objects don't even secure the objects anymore, they leave some meat can or some food, and they only ask in writing the perpetrator to enter the facility to take the food and, if possible, destroy the object as such. So the drop in crime-- I wouldn't exactly like it all to be like that. Although statistics are of course a game of numbers. I would very much appreciate it if, with the statistical decline in crime, we also grew statistically at the same rate of clarity. Because that, in turn, would be of great importance to the citizen whether to go or not to report criminal activity. He sees today that the property crime is explained at, say, a very small level, and therefore he doesn't even have the need to go there. And the investigation and the whole crime and investigation process are linked to the administration already mentioned. And we have to admit, the one that wasn't used to be, but it's really growing. The police are already desperate, and when I meet them, believe me, quite often - because even in my immediate family I have members of the Police of the Czech Republic and I get from the very first hand every amendment we prepare here. They're really already very burdened with it, and they're sorry about the activity that it is. Because if you look at a person who has been caused property or moral damage, that means a person who has been damaged, not only a lesson under Section 43 of the Penal Code, but also a law on victims and others, and that is a lesson of some seven, eight, nine pages of the text today, and a police officer will, of course, give it to that person to read it, because reading it is basically a waste of time. But there are people who read such a lesson for half an hour and often do not even understand it with the legal expressions that are there. So it's paperwork. And then the file gets really swell. Because if you have tens or hundreds of victims there, then the file has thousands, two thousand and five thousand - and I have also met with the files we carried on the avia. So the administration is bothering us. And I'm still saying that we should probably get to that reboot sometime, when we're gonna instruct the person who's being detained, or subsequently accused, and we're gonna tell her her basic rights, and we're gonna give her the rest in writing, whether or not she's gonna apply them, and not that the lessons are gonna be so complicated and so long that sometimes we're gonna get a lawyer who can explain it. Next item - I'm already at the third one - it's the equipment mentioned. Mr. Secretary, you know that we were talking here at the interview about... now I don't mean the smiling chocolate badges of the criminal police and investigation services, but the ballistics and the equipment of the permanent order unit of Prague, when I chose only one of the units, and purposefully only one of the units. We've been fighting over numbers, we've been fighting over expirations, whether they're out of date or not. In the end, I have to say, I'm glad I was right, and you admitted it. We've come to the conclusion that it's just wrong. [[12.10 hours]] I was at a seminar where we were talking about ballistics right at the Police Academy, and I was quite surprised by the guy who, without knowing that I was there as an MP, said during the discussion that the MP who wanted it did it at a bad time, because at that time the ECIS didn't work because they are carrying out annual inventories. The way it works in the police department is that since mid-December, no one will give you anything and mostly until mid-January, three quarters of January, it works, but I didn't interpelate until early February, so I was a little surprised by the answer. There were a few comical answers, because the law enforcement representative was complaining that we're doing this kind of legislation here. And when I asked him how much he, from his position as a police officer, didn't perform directly, but in the nearest command position for direct execution, he gave incentives to his superiors, or directly to the Ministry of the Interior, or when he turned to the committee or subcommittee here in the Chamber of Deputies, it was, of course, zero. So they're criticizing us for something they don't really want to deal with or do. My colleague, Černochová, mentioned ballistics. The situation today is that according to the latest information, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic have enough funds to buy ballistic protection for every serving police officer. We discussed the matter and say: please do not make any crazy purchases, as it was during Mr. Ivan Langer's period of ministering, when hundreds and thousands of vehicles were purchased, which then stood in police warehouses and did not drive for two years because she just wanted to make a monstrosity. If ballistic protection has an expiration of eight, ten years, then do so, and I will initiate it on other platforms of the subcommittee or on the Security Committee, some overview of how we need to change ballistic protection with police officers, and buy it after five thousand a year in order to make a regular change, watch it and let's get to the stage that body ballistics will be required to equip a police officer in the service, such as a worker in a power plant or a bricklayer wearing a protective helmet, even though there are no risks to him in some operations, but if he doesn't have such a helmet on his head, it is a violation either against labour law, in ours it would be a service law, and he could be sanctioned. If every police officer in class IIIA had such a personal ballistics, that means against the basic types of firearms, that means 9mm Para and 38 Special, the other superstructure ballistics IV. Class, that means against Kalashnikovs, fifty eights and others, we can solve with additional plates. I don't want to burden you with this issue, but I just want to say that 25 years from the beginning of the Police of the Czech Republic, and the Minister will certainly say it better and he will know the exact numbers, because I require them again, we have about 120 dead police officers in the line of duty. Friends, 120, that's considerably more than our soldiers died on foreign missions, but they know they're going there and they're shooting and killing each other. And behind each of the 120 people remained their children, their wives, and their husbands, as well as their parents. If there's anything we can do to make their protection bigger, let's do it, because now you have the funds. And the situation in the world is like that. Just look at what is happening in France today, where police officers in Paris, Marseille and other major cities have been demonstrating for a week that they want better conditions for work, that they want protection, that they want some powers, because the situation in Western Europe is very difficult and I would not like us to see something like this here. A separate chapter is an evaluation, I think I mentioned it here yesterday, I won't go back to it any more. My colleague, Černochová, also mentioned this. Yes, the situation is very bad. The not-so-considered act of not using shortcuts on NCOZ - yes, my colleague Korte doesn't like it - the National Centre for Organized Crime put five and possibly more in a personal evaluation, but you forgot about another nationwide unit, which is the National Drug Control, as if you didn't know that they were doing such a serious crime with an international element, so you put one big wedge between them again. And you managed to plant the big wedge with this ill-advised act among the regional headquarters of the police and the country-wide departments, where, let's say, boys at the edges are often better equipped with professional and experience than colleagues from the entire republic. Another question is, what will it do to these boys when they take the decent money this year, next year they'll keep it, of course, with all that you've raised, as you say, I say what you've returned, so that next year's entire republic's troops aren't quite a major exit wave, because that would lead to further destabilisation. Evaluation - we could talk about this here for tens of minutes, hours, let's leave it out, but let's work on this too. And in conclusion, fellow Members, let me not forgive my appeal to each and every one of you, and now to each and every one of you as a politician, some of you ministers, so that, and now the time has passed, tomorrow no one knows what will happen, sometimes they respect their words and the situation that is difficult in the Czech Republic, and the strong political gestures, they give strong statements here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but they did not wipe the situation. Because if we want to get thousands and thousands of people in the square, so-called mob psychosis works, just one reckless act and it could be another problem. I wouldn't want to live to see some Majdan here in the Czech Republic, so I appeal to you, please be a little sober in what you're doing, because we only have one Czech Republic. And if we want to break it ourselves, I don't know. I don't want to do that. Thank you for your attention and I wish you a nice holiday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm filing one factual remark from the MP... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] A proper application, okay. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] In that case, Mr. Ambassador, it's your area. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I looked at the report, a little surprised that the report contains one page of statistics, and then there is a material that has 114 pages on which I have not found the word city police anywhere. When you read the name itself, which says the Report on the Public Order Situation in 2015, and there are no statistical data and comments linked to how the public order area works in cooperation between the State and the individual municipalities, then I do not consider it a well processed report. I, as a municipal politician, have no ambition here to comment on data relating to terrorism, organised crime and a number of crimes and so on, the unauthorized treatment of illegal arms trafficking and terrorism, however, under the concept of public order it is simply necessary to place small crime as such. [[12.20 hours]] We have a situation in the Czech Republic where the Police of the Czech Republic do not have the capacity to address the issue of public order throughout the territory. Individual wealthier cities deal with this situation by setting up city police, which probably deal significantly with the area of transport rather than public order. However, the public order remains a problem, and there are cities and municipalities where you will not meet the public police, nor do they have city police. And the material doesn't even define that this may be a problem, because there really is an experience that many things don't appear in the statistics. Such a minor, rather criminal activity is a huge problem in territories that are not actually operated by any city police, although I understand that you can say that municipalities can agree between themselves when a municipality has that they can help each other, but capacity is not sufficient and is not sufficient as well as financial resources. And the police of the Czech Republic do not have the power to do this order activity as such in small villages. I expected something like this to appear in the material, and I'm interested in your opinion on this whole issue. Like when I was looking for questions relating to the award of employment duties, or so-called. alternative punishments and their use, because often the object of citizens' criticism is the fact that there are fellow citizens here who repeatedly commit misdemeanors, are then sentenced to some alternative punishments to clean the streets, etc., to assist the public administration, to work off the offences they have committed, and when I read the question of probation service, that is about ten sentences stating that everything is actually okay, the situation stabilized. I am not sure that this is how we want it, and I would expect the Home Secretary to appeal to more use of such activities, because people who follow the rules of the game and follow the laws, or decrees, should know that those who do not follow them should also be punished. You, Minister, certainly know that our practice in a number of areas is such that someone is fined for a misdemeanor, given that it is located on their life or social minimum, so only paper, fine awarded, does not touch the financial resources that the person receives, and nothing really happens to him and goes on with the carriage of black rocks. This is something that quite rightly raises questions among decent people towards us, what we're going to do about it. And there's really nothing in the material about this issue. I do not believe that you do not know that this is a problem, even though it is certainly not a problem that moves the European Union and the globe, I admit it, but the fact that you do not meet a state police officer as a patrol in small villages and that it is the fact that we have recidivists here, a criminal who will actually do nothing at the moment when they are given a fine for having committed a minor offence, so that is something that we should also do, although I understand that this is more work and it is not visible, but there is absolutely nothing in the material about it. Nothing about the cooperation between the city police and the state police. There's state police statistics, crime statistics, and I don't know what it's all about, so it's supposed to be, and it's good that it's there, but I didn't find the area where the city police work, so I'm asking why. If it doesn't belong to an area that should be covered by the public order report in the Czech Republic today, and if it belongs there, then why don't we have it there and if it really isn't a problem for us to grant alternative punishments for committing some offences or crimes. I think it is a problem and that the Czech Republic and the Ministry of the Interior should, in turn, point out the problems in this matter so that we can say: Well, the problem is, do you have any proposal for a solution, what are we going to do about it? At least it's an indication of the situation. Because to be satisfied with the situation as it is today, I think and I hope that you agree with me in this regard, Minister, we cannot. So I ask what about this area, why it is not part of the report and why we were unable to suggest, or why there are no solutions proposed in the report that will move the situation forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u13	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor at this stage. The Minister is about to speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor before we proceed to a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of facts, questions have been raised by my previous speakers, from my point of view, and some claims they cannot agree with, and it is more like a debate in the committee responsible, because it is almost impossible to discuss this issue in depth here in this forum today. As for some of these specific things, I can only operate on numbers, not impressions. This means that between 2014 and 2015, the number of police officers increased by 1 167, i.e. nearly 1,200 police officers were added to the services of the Police of the Czech Republic. There's no policemen leaving. This was recently the last time the police had about 37,000 police officers, when the salaries of police officers, firefighters and other armed forces were reduced by a one-off step of the Czech government by 10 percent, and it took us quite a while to level this injustice. With regard to the question of police education, there is currently an institution under the Ministry of the Interior which de facto addresses general education, and I am in favour of the fact that secondary police schools are certainly here. In addition, there are also private or regionally established secondary vocational schools, which also prepare specialists for police work, work with firefighters. Recently, I was at a school like this in the Pardubice Region. The school is very well established, it had, if I recall correctly, almost 900 students and a large part of the educational program was aimed precisely at the fact that graduates of this school could then continue to serve the state, whether in the police or in the fire department. In terms of pay conditions, a change in the service law is really being prepared to allow a certain degree of bonding in some areas where there is a higher average of wages. Of course there is a difference between North Moravia and Prague. One of the biggest competitors in the market in Prague, for example, is the city police. This means that our main competitor in the labour market, where we meet about police officers, is the City Police of the capital city of Prague and the state police. It is a problem we know about, it is not only Prague, it is also other larger cities, other locations in the Czech Republic. And, of course, as unemployment in the Czech Republic has fallen significantly, and so do the number of people who are willing to serve the state under worse financial conditions than they are gaining in the current situation on another labour market or on another employment application. The problem arises not only in the Czech Republic, but some police officers, firemen, for example, leave for work in Germany, Austria. There are cases like this, and when I'm talking to the commanders, whether it's the county of Var or South Moravia, there's just those exits. [[Karla]] [[12.30 hours]] Besides, the state is competing with itself. You mentioned NCOZ several times. The surcharge of approximately CZK 5,000, which was there, was also due to the fact that at present e.g. Customs pays better than the Police of the Czech Republic, and to keep the specialists concerned, we put this bonus there. In addition, we expect similar wage increases for other national congregations, let it be the DEA headquarters. I spoke to the director of headquarters. We agreed that this year there would still be some technical equipment and that we were looking for ways to improve salary conditions for police officers in these departments to be comparable to NCOZ. You're right about specialists on the edges, whether they're regional crime labs, who often carry an even bigger idea of crime than specialized services. Even there, in the form of a change in the service law, we seek a way to pay for qualified, high-quality police officers there. On the other hand, I think it is essential for wages to grow throughout the police as a whole, because even police officers who fight crime in the front line, with as much as possible harassing citizens, so they must also be clearly understood that the state appreciates their work, and that they value them means that they pay them politely and pay them competitively. Of course, this means increasing the Ministry of the Interior's budget. You know how difficult budget debates are. On the other hand, in the trend over the last three years, it is evident that the Ministry of the Interior is increasing both wage and investment funds. You are right, Mr President, about ballistics. For reasons unknown to me, the police did not give the right information, and I strongly asked the police president to take personnel measures in this matter, and that it must not be allowed for the police to deceive the Chamber of Deputies by failing to provide valid information. It just can't happen again. If this were to happen again, it is necessary to draw further personal responsibility, because this is not possible. I would understand if they were wrong in the order of units, dozens of pieces, but the way they were wrong, that doesn't seem like a mistake anymore, but rather an intention. And I am very glad that we are having this debate here, and I am very glad that we are able to improve some specific things. For me, it is essential that every police officer who goes into the service and risks his life be politely paid and well-equipped. Fairly means the state won't spare on these things. In the past, we have witnessed police receiving poor quality equipment, clothing, and other items. I hope it improves. We can't jump, we can't immediately rearm the entire police to give her new uniforms at once, it would be very expensive, but we're trying to debate them and we're trying to explain to them how the change will continue. I recently visited a Czech ballistics manufacturer on my way around the regions, and in the Czech Republic there are high quality ballistics manufacturers. I was there with my colleague Váňa, I think. It is a company that not only supplies to the Czech Republic today, but is also competitive in very demanding Western markets. But we need to talk about whether we are capable, and we are preparing it and debating it with Minister Šlechtová, if we are able to go so far as to amend the Procurement Act that specialized purchases will be carried out in another regime, because, for example, the ballistics are being blocked by a company that permanently withdraws and ends up in court, and we can't afford that for two or three years, as long as the litigation goes on, the police have no relevant protection. I'm passing now that there's another dispute over the quality of the vests delivered. But we have to wonder if we are able to go the way that specialized protective equipment, and not only those, but also other specific purchases, are able to do in another mode. We're talking about it, we're preparing an opinion, we're talking about it with specialists not only from police, firefighters, but also from other congregations. For example, there are opinions from the academic sphere for the purchase of specialized instruments for special measurements, because even there it is necessary to buy the highest top quality, so that the results are relevant and comparable to other worlds. As far as urban police are concerned, the cooperation between the municipal police and the state police mostly operates in the municipalities concerned on the basis of an agreement between the state police, between the city. These agreements are almost everywhere in larger cities. Cooperation works very well and the offences that the Police of the Czech Republic knows are also included in the reports you are talking about. To talk about the functioning of the city police - what about the city, the city police. Of course, they're governed by the City Police Act. Now there is a debate about what changes should be in this law. We are discussing this very intensively with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and we want some of the conditions that are there to be anchored, whether it be a period of professional competence, whether it be a time of trial and more. We are discussing this very intensively with the Security Committee. It is not even possible to give an extensive report here for every city police force in the Czech Republic, we do not know the data in depth. We can, if the committee so requests, do not prevent us from giving a comparative report or an analytical report describing how cooperation works, what are the differences between city police, which have hundreds of police officers in large cities and small towns, and let us give it the view of the Ministry of Interior on the functioning of urban police and cooperation. But I have no ambition for these cities to assess the benefits to them. It's up to every village to decide whether or not to have city police. We can only follow the trends and cooperation that exist here. If I were to evaluate it, I say that cooperation between the city police and the state police is very good at a very good level. Of course, it is also true that there are often former police officers in the city police, there are quite a large percentage of them, and also because of the interpersonal contacts between these people, the cooperation is really very good. The other questions that have been raised here, I will try to analyse them from these speeches by both Mrs Černochová and Mrs Bendl, and Mr Ondráček, and we will try these things where there have been specific questions on the figures, to supplement and send them back to all Members. I take it more or less as some sort of unplanned interpellation that originated here in the place itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u15	Thank you. We will now proceed to the debate in detail. I note Mr Chalupa's factual remark, in any event, only if the debate is open and someone in it can speak with a point of fact. This means that I am asking the rapporteur whether he wants to read the motion for a resolution on which we will vote, which would open the debate, and I will then give you a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am considering whether this is the opening of the debate, but in any event I propose a resolution for the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to take note of the Report on the situation in the field of internal security and public order in the Czech Republic in 2015. [[Compared to 2014]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u17	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Chalupa's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I welcome what has been said here by the Minister that he has taken a stand on the issue of ballistics, but I would like to draw your attention to one thing that we should probably do something about the role of state-owned enterprises, because state enterprises, as they are being used by executives today, that is to say, the ministries, especially in the field of defence and security, are not quite good because, for example, we have found that the Military Technical Institute must be addressed in the context of, say, the preparation of acquisitions in the context of a public competition. It is a state enterprise and we should basically solve the legislative issue of the state enterprise, because it is a state, it is a state, and all departments should address it automatically without tenders. That's one. And the second thing I'd like to put out is the question of science and research. I already told you. I certainly don't think it's possible for the Ministry of the Interior to draw 30 billion in the future. for science and research only 600 miles. Crowns. So we should do something about that, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-002-240.u19	Ambassador, thank you. For the sake of order only, a factual remark of this kind should be part of a general debate. In detail, counterproposals for a motion for a resolution should fall, etc. I ask if anyone in the detailed debate wants to put forward a proposal, respectively. counter-proposal against the motion for a resolution. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, there was only one motion for a resolution, and I am asking at this point whether the rapporteur or the Minister would like to take the final floor at this stage. It's not like that. So I will read the motion for a resolution for order as it was read: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on the Situation of Internal Security and Public Order in the Czech Republic in 2015.' [[Compared to 2014]] I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. [[12.40 hours]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 225, registered by 93 Members, for proposal 89, against 1. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Before we go any further, I'll read two apologies. Today, from 11 a.m. to 13 a.m. for work reasons, Mr Kasal apologizes, and from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologises. And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's it.
