ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u1	232. Annual report on the activities of the public defender of rights for 2015 /German press 768/ First of all, let me welcome Mrs Anna Šabatová's public rights protector among us. Welcome, Mrs. Ombudswoman. I ask the Ombudsman to present the report. This House press has discussed the petition committee and the constitutional committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 768/1 and 2. I ask the Ombudsman to present the report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you the report on my activities for 2015. We have assembled it with our colleagues so that experts, Members and Senators as well as the public, can draw it out of it. In addition to various overviews, we have used the register of protector's opinions freely available on our website. Therefore, instead of long legal texts, the report briefly explains the nature of individual problems and their solutions. And by one click, if you are, of course, in an electronic version, you will get to the full text of the cases. The report has traditionally been devoted to the legislative recommendations of the Chamber of Deputies, applied by special authorizations, statistics and knowledge from individual areas of government, unconventional is only an association of topics by individual working teams, which we have also presented this time in the report, systematic visits to facilities, i.e. protection against mistreatment, statistics and findings from the area of equal treatment and protection against discrimination. And, of course, the management and activities of the office itself. Now let me sum up the most important thing. I am pleased that most of the Ombudsman's legislative recommendations for 2013 and 2014 have been heard. Nine of the fifteen recommendations have already been reflected in some way in the legal order, or the change is being worked on. I am sorry that we still lack a law on custody that would improve the status and protection of those who are limited in their own right. I also regret that the lawyer as a court appointed by the child's conflict guardian can no longer look into the documentation kept by the child's social protection body and cannot therefore properly defend the child's interests. For 2015, I'm presenting five new and one old-fashioned recommendation. I am convinced of the need to ensure really good care for seniors by anchoring minimum material and personnel requirements for social services facilities. It is also necessary to remove unnecessary barriers to parental contribution and to eliminate disadvantages for workers who fail to achieve minimum wages because they work part-time in the payment of health insurance. Last year, I also turned twice to the government and made my recommendations. The Government has complied with the recommendation to improve the availability of social services and has imposed certain tasks on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in this context. This is the only way to prevent the ill-treatment of seniors and people with mental disorders in previously unregistered establishments, i.e. accommodation facilities that provide such services without authorisation, and thus without regular control. To put it simply, if there are not enough proper legal services, we will be dealing with the phenomenon of a strange business in this area. In 2015, we received 7 541 complaints. The crucial, important and positive is that more and more people know what the protector can do. This means 64 percent of last year's initiatives, and it is the most in history, fell under the authority of the public defender of rights. So we could look into them in detail. [[11.20 hours]] Traditionally the most people, about a quarter of all, needed assistance in the area of social security, i.e. with pensions, whether disabled or old-age, and with benefits. We handled a total of 7 679 initiatives and ended 884 investigations initiated. Of this, in two thirds of the cases, we've found misbehaviour of the authorities. It should be said that the Office mostly corrected the error itself. Only in 17 cases did I have to inform the superior authority or inform the public. Last year was also the tenth year of the protector's work as a national preventive mechanism. For ten years, we have been protecting people from mistreatment by regularly visiting facilities where people are restricted to freedom, as a result of their dependence on care and on decisions of public authority, and we are proposing measures to improve conditions. In 2015, we completed systematic visits to accommodation facilities providing care without proper authorisation. Through a comprehensive report on these visits, we informed and warned both the professional and the general public. We have submitted the report to all the state authorities concerned, including law enforcement authorities. I have also turned, as I have already pointed out, to the government. We have issued a separate annual report on the supervision of the restriction of personal freedom. Last year we also received 379 incentives with opposition to discrimination. Only eight of the closed cases were considered discrimination. However, this does not mean that there is no discrimination. In some cases, sufficient evidence is missing. Our research also showed that most victims of discrimination do not fight back. They don't believe they can make amends, they don't have enough evidence, or they're even afraid of worsening their situation. I believe that people should receive the same reward for the same work. That is why last year we focused on equal pay for men and women and people with disabilities. We have also issued a separate annual report in the area of protection against discrimination. I mean, none of this could have been handled by me and my deputy if we didn't have coworkers. The office last year worked with 132 employees, of which 99 were directly dedicated to the professional tasks of the protector. The office ran a budget of 112 miles. Crowns. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps the annual report will clearly bring our work closer to you and help deepen our cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ombudsmance, for her report and the presentation of this report. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee on Petitions, Mr Jiří Junek, inform us of the negotiations on this committee and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u4	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to brief you on how the annual report was discussed on the ground of the petition committee. The Committee discussed this report at its meeting on 26 April 2016. The Ombudsman was not present, so the committee informed its representative of the content of the annual report. A total of five Members spoke in the debate on the annual report, and they all raised reservations about the new concept of the annual report, which, while adding graphs, pictograms, pictures and photographs, did not quite meet the purpose of presenting the Chamber of Deputies in general. As an example, although the report contains the number of prisons visited, it lacks a brief exit, summary and conclusions from these visits. Or, for example, it was said that there is a notice in the report on unequal pay for men and women, but once again there are no proposed steps to change how this should be addressed. Overall, the Committee discussed the absence of the results of the investigations in individual areas. The less information value of the material submitted was emphasised than it was in previous years. It was said that this submitted report appeared to be rather a material for the Ombudsman's promotion. Finally, the members of the Committee on Petitions recalled that the protector's report presented is primarily addressed to the Chamber of Deputies and therefore cannot be similar to any marketing or educational material for citizens. Members of the Committee on Petitions would therefore welcome that the next annual activity report for the previous year should be, above all, concise, return to the earlier version of the Ombudsman's annual activity report. However, it should be stressed that all the relevant information to be included in the annual report, such as the budget of the institution, its management, the number of employees, the number of submissions from citizens in individual areas, but also the recommendations of the Chamber of Deputies, all of this is contained in the report. After all, Mrs. Ombudswoman has now introduced us to this, especially with the recommendations for the Chamber of Deputies, which is important. So for this reason, it is certainly for us to take note of this report. So I would probably read the motion for a resolution after a debate that will certainly follow now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, please, the rapporteur of Mr Lukáš Pleticha's constitutional committee, who is not present. The President of the Constitutional Legal Committee is sacrificing himself, please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of the Committee Chair to represent my dear colleagues, and I will therefore inform you that, of course, we have discussed this press at our meeting on 9 June 2016, at the 68th session of the Constitutional Committee, and we have taken note of the Annual Report on the activities of the Public Defender of Rights for 2015. You will find this resolution in the documents as number 236 in the Committee's resolution. Perhaps I would just add that we are regularly in contact with the public defender and her office. We are trying to respond to comments from the Ombudsman's practice, and this will certainly continue to be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I open the general debate, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes today within 13:00, and Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes today from 11:00 to 12:00 for work reasons. And now I am launching a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u8	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to Anna by saying that there is nothing more necessary in our country than an institution defending the justice and rights of citizens. An institution that would do something like this really at 100 percent, but it still doesn't exist today. One of the institutions that should be implementing this is, without a doubt, the Ombudsman's Office, the Ombudsman's. But his activity is limited by laws that will not allow him to deal with all cases of injustice and, unfortunately, by the personal priorities of the administration. When reading the Ombudsman's report, we will find a lot of concrete useful work, but if we step down, we will find that in the majority of the office simulates social authorities, solves payments of various benefits or sickness insurance payments, but there is no pressure on general justice and citizens' rights. What is most appalling to me, however, is that Mrs. Ombudswoman was involved in hystericalizing the event against the Central Medical School in Prague 10. Her principal is accused of discrimination for prohibiting Muslim students from hiding Islamic cloak by hijab. The Ombudswoman openly defends a Muslim student and openly opposes the school principal. I note that this alleged victim of religious discrimination used accusations clearly and objectively purposefully. Unfortunately, this is where protector Šabatová failed most and repeatedly. [[11.30 hours]] Every school has some binding school rules and rules that apply to everyone. Any exception to these rules is discrimination against those not covered by the exemptions. The Ombudswoman did not stand up for the victims of discrimination and injustice, which is in fact school and other students, but for Muslims who asked for above-standard rights that other students do not have. That's just outrageous! I understand a student who has bad grades and doesn't manage to make excuses for religious discrimination. But I'm missing how an intelligent adult can approach and support this game. As with the students, it is quite obvious that this is a purposeful abuse of the case to create an artificial struggle for religious freedom. This trial is an insolent provocation aimed at promoting the speeches of radical Islam to Czech schools. On the contrary, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, promotes a ban on promoting Islamic Sharia law in the Czech Republic. However, this proposal was rejected by Sobotkův and Babišův's government last year in the House. And no wonder, it is the Ombudsman Anna Šabatová who is elected to the post of members of the ČSSD and the ANO movement. We're a secular society. And the faith of each of us is a personal intimate thing. They do not belong to public schools or authorities. In the same spirit, next time, a Muslim apprentice in a butcher shop may demand that he not do the morgue because the pig is an unclean animal. Unfortunately, protector Anna Šabatová has supported here a huge injustice committed on the management of the accused school and has clearly also damaged the rights of the management of this school. It is a great shame and disgraceful failure of the Ombudsman, Anna Šabatová, and her office. Speaking of discrimination. The Ombudsman proposes moving the burden of proof in disputes about discrimination to all alleged victims of discrimination. That means that when someone accuses you of discrimination for almost anything, you have to develop yourself. It's an absolute reversal of the principle of presumption of innocence. No one's proving you guilty, but you're obligated to prove your innocence. This is no longer modern law, but the early Middle Ages, when, on the same principle of accusation, they had to prove their innocence in God's court. Again, this is discrimination against all the accused. Moreover, the entire anti-discrimination law is absurd and discriminatory, for example, against employers. He denies any free right they have to decide who they employ. Employment of anyone is not the employee's right, but the choice is and must remain the employer's supreme right. Every employer has to choose and discriminate, because the purpose of the selection is to choose the most suitable candidate. And somewhere, a younger, handsome or physically fit person, somewhere more experienced. Somewhere a woman, another man. Dictating employers that I must not select employees, but I must take everyone regardless of age, sex, etc., that is an absolute challenge and an intervention in the human rights of entrepreneurs. And I will return to the butchers mentioned. Perhaps no one doubts that, for example, the Jewish butcher who defeats by Halach has to be Jewish. And he can barely employ non - Jews to do his job. They simply have to discriminate against jobseekers on the basis of faith. The Catholic Church, as a vicar, will probably never employ women, obviously not even Muslims, and therefore must choose on the basis of sex and faith. Of course, we would find examples of unfair and evil discrimination in our country that we should be dealing with. This is an example of a systematic violation of the rights of fathers, where justice for decades with impunity violates the most fundamental rights of men to equal treatment and the right of children to both parents. Literally every day, the courts produce some sort of human tragedy. For example, if my father gets taken away by a child. It's horrible and tragic. More than 90 percent of children receive sole care from women. The House sometimes deals with alimony payers. It'd be nice to figure out why some men don't pay. What is the willingness of a man to pay for a child that the court will steal from you, to which it will block your access and, if necessary, take your property from you? Thousands of specific cases prove to be in heaven calling out injustices against our fathers by our judgments. There are cases that end in the suicide of a father or child. Too škoda our defender doesn't care about that. On the contrary, they are interested in a Muslim who violates school rules. Here you can see Mrs. Šabatová's priorities. For years, the state has discriminated against men about the retirement age. For example, compared to women in men, it is not taken into account whether they are raising a child in their sole care. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue, but what I wanted to say is that it makes sense to protect citizens' rights. But both the Czech state and the specific office of the Ombudsman do this very selectively, poorly and sometimes even attempt to violate human rights. I think this should be a reason for a big thought. And we should do the best we can to fix it. Finally, let me say that our movement of freedom and direct democracy, the SPD, will not support for the above reasons. The annual report on the activities of the public defender of rights for 2015 as we do not agree with Ms Anna Šabatová's negotiations and activities on many fundamental matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u9	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With a factual remark, Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u10	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members. I really have a point of fact. Please, a scarf. If a school forbids wearing a scarf... He doesn't forbid a religious symbol. A scarf is no religious symbol. It's a habit. If you read the Qur'an, there's no talk of anything like that. Women are only supposed to cover their ornaments. And it says in another sura that if women dance, they shouldn't dance so that their decorations nod too much, which I understand other parts of the body. So please, a scarf is a habit. You will see in a number of Muslim countries that women do not wear a bandana of Muslim religion at all. For the next time, I wouldn't talk about banning religious symbols when deciding such things. It's really the same as when a family is used to wearing berets, so please. It's their custom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Please, Mrs Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would only briefly comment on the report by Mrs Ombudswoman. Surely you cannot deny the entire office of the Ombudsman that he has care for people with disabilities, seniors. That this facility is visiting and that it draws attention to the situation that is there. I certainly welcome the initiative of the Ombudsman to set minimum standards for staffing. However, I am concerned that minimum personnel standards will not become a ceiling and that others will not be able to accept there. She's alerted the situation here at unregistered facilities. We have also repeatedly addressed this issue on the subcommittee on non-insurable batch systems and asked representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when there may be any unregistered equipment in the Czech Republic, how can we allow it at all, and I ask you, Mrs Ombudsman, why do you not give any incentive at all to prevent such equipment from coming into existence here at first. And the ones that are here to ban. To provide care for the elderly and the disabled, that is, people who need protection so that those people have secure services. Today we have an institute and a registered facility that must meet the conditions. They have to meet standards, they have to meet people's education. That's the way I'd see the road going. Please, I'd like you to do your utmost in this. The second issue I would like to draw attention to here, and my colleague Okamura has already described it very closely here, and this is the issue of health school. I want to say that we have put the amendment in an amendment that is about to address your rights, and we want to ban it. Because I think our country should live by our laws and our values. And these values and these rights should be seriously concerned with what happened in Europe last year, and what we can expect to be happening, we should be serious about whether the values and opening up Europe to the rest of the world, especially in the area of Muslim countries, if we are not too much behind the edges and if we are not putting our citizens at risk. It's already been explained here, and I'm joining it. [[11.40 hours]] I want to say, Mrs. Ombudswoman, that during the talks, even now during the election campaigns, citizens are asking me because they don't know how we could even let you get elected to that place. Right? And I want to tell you through this that people, ordinary people who live behind these walls, are very unhappy with the way you defend minorities in the Czech Republic and that you do not take into account the problems of people who live here and whose rights are violated. So I do this duty, I want to tell you, let it be in the care of the family, let it be in the care of the elderly, let it be in the care of the disabled. So please, I would very much like you to look after the problems that the majority society has next time, and not just defending the people who are currently being given more attention than other citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u13	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good morning. I would like to say that the Ombudsman knows that I do not agree with many of her steps, whether it was a step that we have also taken on the subcommittee on the Ombudsman, and these were provocations within the housing, things that I think are not part of the area that the protector should accentuate, that the problems that are, are much more, whether it is really the transfer of responsibility to the head of the school, which was mentioned here by Mr Okamura. One thing I do not agree with, however, is the response to Mr Okamura's words, and this is to accentuate the Union of Fathers, accentuate the alternating care and primary protection of fathers, because I think that in the context of alternating care it is necessary to protect women and protect children who are very often suffering from alternating care. And this is really about not being abused by children who are often put into situations that border on abuse and which border on the fact that children then take mental problems away. There I think it should be priorities, and there should be primarily the protection and patronage of the Ombudsman or anyone who performs the Ombudsman's office. So for myself, I would very much like to appeal to Mrs. Ombudsman to focus on these problems, to focus on the problems of people who really need help and help these people. Not that there is an accent to favour minorities, to defend people who use their religion, or to patronize their religion and use it as a stick. And we can't give in to them in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u15	Thank you, Mr Černoch. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the final words of the rapporteurs. Please, rapporteur. Or Mrs. Ombudswoman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u16	I would just like to read the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Petitions, which would be: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Annual Report on the activities of the public defender of rights for 2015 according to House press number 768.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u17	Thank you, rapporteur. You guys are so fast. We will now proceed to the debate in detail, in which I ask you to refer to this resolution. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u18	In that case, I refer to the resolution I just read here. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u19	That's exactly how it's formally correct. Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking about the final words - there's no interest. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has said. But first, I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has delivered it to the Committee on Petitions. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a vote of 336. 114 Members and Members are registered, for 57, against 23. The motion has not been approved. Sorry, there's a motion for a vote check. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u20	Thank you. I'm sorry, it's my first time, I voted yes, but I'm not on drugs, so I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-003-232.u21	Thank you. We will vote on Mr Kořenko's objection. I am opening the vote on this objection. Who is in favour of accepting the objection? Who's against it? It's a 337 vote. 119 Members and Members are registered, for 110, against none. Objection received. We will repeat the vote on the motion for a resolution as presented by the rapporteur to the Committee on Petitions. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 338 vote. 119 Members and Members are registered, for 59, against 24. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Thank you, Madam Ombudsman, rapporteur, and that concludes this point. The next item is:
