ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts, as amended by Act No. 87/2015 Sb. House print 689/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Members, this bill is presented in particular because of the need to address the decline in the real value of the care allowance, which occurred in eight years of its existence, when it was not substantially increased, there were only some changes made within it. It is therefore proposed in the Social Services Act to increase these amounts at all levels of dependence by 10 %, with effect from 1 August 2016. Furthermore, in this Act, the conditions for the provision of social services without the client's consent are very acute and the existing provisions of the Law on special court proceedings governing proceedings concerning the inadmissibility of the possession of a person in social services facilities against the will of that person are specified in this Act. The need arises primarily from the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The third course of adjustment, which we also consider to be acute, is therefore already in this so-called. small novelties respond to the growing negative social phenomenon, which is the illegal provision of social services. So the control authority of the regional authorities extends here to control facilities that have not been authorised to provide social services, and at the same time it is proposed to increase the upper limit of the fine imposed for this administrative offence of providing social services without authorisation from one to two million crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u4	Madam President, honourable members of the government, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has given us detailed information in her introductory words on the reasons for submitting a government bill amending Act No No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts, as amended by Act No. 87/2015 Coll., House print 689. I therefore consider it appropriate to limit myself in my reporting report only to a brief summary of this draft law by mentioning one specific subject for discussion in the committees. The law regulates three areas. It increases the amount of care allowance by 10 per cent at all levels of addiction from 1. 8. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The second area is the modification of the conditions of detention proceedings, as explained by the Minister, i.e. the state of the client's residence social services expressing his serious disagreement with the stay in social services facilities. The third area is to increase the competence of regional authorities in the area of combating illegal social services operators. I would now like to mention one specific area which I would very much like to propose for the discussion in the committees. This is the petitioner of the proposed 24 hour period for the notification obligation of the social services provider of the court if the client of the resident social services manifests a serious disagreement with the stay in a particular facility. The very introduction of the notification obligation should lead to an increase in the protection of citizens against involuntary placement in social services housing, which I consider important in terms of protecting human rights. [[15.00 hours]] I also evaluate the proposed conditions of detention as a whole positively, except for the 24 hour notification period mentioned. It can be argued here that a similar detention procedure, including the same 24-hour period, already works for residential health services. However, it should be taken into account here that bed health facilities have somewhat different personnel and, say, logistics options than most social services. According to the discussion with social service operators, there is a real risk that, especially during weekends or holidays, these establishments will have a problem fulfilling the notification requirement. And in the foreseeable future, there is no real increase in the number of personnel in social services, although we would like to do so in some segments. It is therefore up to us to discuss whether we will find a political consensus on extending the proposed deadline to 48 hours or, if necessary, to a maximum of 72 hours. Since stays in social services facilities in the vast majority of cases have a long-term character, there is, in my view, no more significant risk of delay or restriction of the rights of social services users. After the debate, I am prepared to propose an amendment in this regard, if necessary. Finally, as rapporteur, I would like to propose the release of this bill to second reading and, in accordance with the proposal of the Organising Committee, I recommend the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. I do not propose a reduction or extension of the deadline from the rapporteur's position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u5	Thank you for your report, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Hnyková, Mrs Adamová and Mrs Chalánková's applications. Now, please get to Mrs. Hnyková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We have an amendment to Act No. 108 on social services, House press 689, which increases care allowance at all levels by 10 percent. The Úsvit MP will support this increase because it is not only due to disability after those years of requests for an increase. They need the contribution for their lives to provide aids, services as well as to finance assistance with the care of both family members and other persons who provide care in the home environment and in residence facilities. Until now, nothing can be blamed on the amendment, except that after all these years, the increase could be higher and regular valorisation in the law should also be set. There's another problem with the confession and the review of the care allowance. Last year I submitted an amendment to this law with my colleagues from Dawn, and some of you signed up for this amendment, for which I thank you once again. The amendment concerns precisely the assessment of this contribution and wants the return of the rules for its confession before 2012, when it was assessed by 36 acts instead of today's ten. At the seminar I held on this subject in the Chamber of Deputies, there were incredible statements from the disabled about how they suddenly lost their contribution or how they were re-evaluated according to the new parameters, or how they sought it. We learned that a number of disabled people had miraculously healed after changing the rules and their health improved significantly. Unfortunately, only on paper. Representatives of the Association of Disabilities - I add to the explanation that it is the organisation that meets these problems most and solves the remedy in practice - met with the Minister and asked her to change this assessment. It didn't happen that way. They organized a petition under which 11 373 people signed in three months and then submitted it to the petition committee that accepted it. Healthily disabled people asked the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to quickly address the issue of care contributions and to return at least the rights they had until 2012. It didn't happen, so we filed an amendment to the law. The law is currently opening, and I hope that it will be released for second reading, in which I will put forward an amendment to address this issue. Another issue that this amendment addresses, and has already been mentioned, concerns, as described in the explanatory memorandum, the entities carrying out activities corresponding to social services, we simply call it unregistered equipment. We were very interested in this issue last year on the subcommittee for non-insurable batch systems, disabled, elderly and socially endangered groups and we were expecting an earlier solution. So be it. As long as we have him now. If that's enough, I can't evaluate now. I'm just wondering how it is possible that in our country there are services provided in such facilities where the most fragile are paying for it, and these are our seniors who need good care and help. When my colleagues from Brno told me how miserable they were to take clients from Přerov, I got goosebumps. On the one hand, we require very high quality services in state organisations, and on the other hand, it is allowed to provide services in such facilities, which are most often carried out only on the basis of trade license and through social services assistants. In the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, we learn - I quote: "It is a dangerous phenomenon, with regard to the target group of these services, to which persons who are weakened due to their illness, age, or disability fall. The risk of providing poor-quality care is too high and at the same time affecting not only the area of human dignity but also health." Then I wonder if the amendment in this area is hypocrisy. Will that be enough? Won't our seniors continue to suffer? Shouldn't the Minister and the entire government, along with her, think about this and not look for an even more powerful solution? In our country there are also private providers who register and provide social services under this law and meet the conditions regarding standards and personnel equipment. If this is how it works, why unregistered devices? That's why I'd be leaning forward to not admitting any unregistered services, and canceling them all. You don't meet the conditions, so you can't exist in this area. That is why I ask, Madam Secretary, why not do so? After all, Mrs. Ombudswoman and her office have long drawn attention to these problems. If we vote for this, then we all admit that the weakest are treated like this, and we're just gonna do a little tightening. I can't accept that. For over two decades, I have worked in social services and tried to improve these services all the time, but this is incomprehensible, unacceptable and unforgivable to me, treating seniors like this and exposing old people to such care. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider this issue and make a strong solution in this law so that old people do not suffer. The third area covered by this law and laid down in more detailed legislation is an arrangement which specifies the conditions under which the possession of a person in social housing services is permissible without its consent. I agree with everything. I'm just asking myself how social workers work, how they conduct social investigations, how they comply with the standards of care, where the conditions for the user's admission to the service are clearly laid down. And I'll remind you, when a client comes in, we follow Standard No. 3 which is in Annex No. 2 of Decree 505/2006 Coll., implementing certain provisions of the Social Services Act, which states: "The Provider has written internal rules under which he informs interested parties about the social service in a understandable manner and the possibilities and conditions for the provision of social services under these rules.' [[15.10 hours]] From my practice I tell you that I consider the social investigation to be one of the most important, because contact with the user is one of the most important in social work. We in our facility started this investigation long before the Social Services Act was adopted, because we met in this deep past with the fact that relatives were getting to the facility their closest under various threats and threats. The whole adaptation process was then very complicated and ended with the premature death of the user. Since then, we've never taken a user to our facility who didn't want to get into our facility. And if he got in and wanted to leave, we made it possible for him. I assume that we will look at this issue in more detail in the Committee on Social Policy in order to understand why, after so many years in this law, this paragrafo text has to be. I have summarised the whole issue of this law and expressed myself for the Dawn Parliamentary Club on individual changes. I believe that, following the discussion in the Committee on Social Policy and Amendments, we will find the best solution to this amendment, which will help provide quality and social services for the benefit of the people who need it. Thank you for your attention and listening to my contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u7	Thank you and please to the microphone next in line, this is Mrs Adamová, Mrs Chalánková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is presenting us with an amendment to the Social Services Act, which proposes, as of 1 August 2016, to valorise the contribution to care by 10 per cent, even in both ages, at all levels of disability. TOP 09 is aware that increasing the care allowance is justified and we support it. However, we consider the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to be non-systemic and raises the question of why the government decided to valorise by just 10 per cent. If we look at the explanatory memorandum, we will find that the petitioner argues, for example, that nutrition costs and other basic personal needs have increased by around 17 percent since 2007. Prices for the health group, i.e. drug prices, etc. have increased most. There has been an increase of 52 percent since 2007. According to the petitioner, social welfare prices have increased by 32 percent since 2007. So how did the designers come up with the 10 percent? Is there any analysis that suggests that 10-percent valuation would significantly help the availability of social services and improve the lives of families that care for those dependent on care? I don't just mean that as a rhetorical question. I would really like to get an answer on the calculation that the government has just reached a valuation of 10 percent. A similar question arises with the intention of valorizing everyone, i.e. at all levels of disability, in both ages. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to evaluate the amount of the contribution in each step and age category for the actual cost of providing social services and, on that basis, to propose differentiated valuation? I'm afraid we're going to add a lot to everyone, regardless of the real need. But I don't want to hurt the petitioners. They may have an analysis that shows that it is necessary to valorize by 10 per cent in all levels of disability in both age categories as well. But like I said, I'd like to see her, and that's why I'd like to ask for her from this place. I consider the problem of this government and social policy to be unsystematic. You push for major changes in funding, but you don't change the system and you don't solve it. See, pension reform, that's like evergreen. No systemicity, unsustainable, unfinished, you're just interrupting and not replacing with a functional system. See the Employment Act and the increase in the contribution to the employment of disabled people, which you applied last week in the form of an sticker to a completely different OSH Act. Again unsystemic, without analyses, this time even without the possibility of commenting on ministries. And you could go on like this. The social system must be fair, sustainable and not easily abused. We are willing to discuss changes. The submitted amendment, however, does not contain systemic changes that would improve the payment of care allowances, prevent abuse, but also speed up the allocation, because it also lasts for months. So let us focus not only on valorisation, but also on changes in the system, not only on those that are presented here in the field of unregistered equipment. Because a number of round tables and expert seminars have already taken place on this subject and I would expect this to be reflected in the draft of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. If that is not the case, I expect that we will at least get to it in committees. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u9	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková, and please to the microphone. Mr. Vilímec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say for TOP 09 that we will support this proposal to increase the care allowance by 10 per cent, yet I would like to comment on some phenomena. Some elements. I'd like to go back to the history of funding social services. By 2006, the provision of social services was financed in various ways. The bed subsidy for the founders, which were municipalities, was then a purpose-bound package, which was redistributed through the regions to non-profit organizations, and also subsidies for the performance of the founders' functions allocated to the regions. At that time about 13 billion flowed into this area. Crowns. Today, we have already 21 billion in the 2016 budget in the care allowance. 300 miles. CZK and subsidies which result from the provision of social services to the regions and are distributed to all providers who are and are included in the medium-term plan of social services providers. When this non-mandatory expenditure, subsidies to the regions, was transferred from the state budget to the regional budget last year, I brought an amendment so that this transfer to the region would be postponed by two years in time so that we could talk about a systemic change in the financing of social services. At the time when it was approved and also came into force this Act on Social Services, i.e. from 1. 1. 2007 became effective, so at that time it was the subsidy for regions to finance social services that was zero. Every year, every year, this budget was supposed to be zero. Finally, some money was always found, but it was assumed that the financing of social services would be dealt with by a contribution to care, which is an indication of mandatorial. This has not happened and the financing of social services is not always in order. I think there is also a conflict of interest when transferring this subsidy, which is an out-of-mandatory expense, to the edge. I believe that the Ministry has developed a methodology that is binding on the distribution of these funds for different types of settlers. However, I cannot resist the remark that if someone is also the provider of the subsidy and also the founder of the social service, I think he is in conflict of interest. At the same time, it is known that, at the first stage of the care allowance, there is a major leakage of funds outside the welfare system, up to 75 per cent outside the system. I am in favour of making the amount of care allowance for those people from higher levels of addiction, especially the highest ones, even higher than it is today. And that's much higher than the 10 percent increase we're talking about today. Therefore, I would welcome the time shift I proposed last year and the debate on a systemic solution to the financing of social services, which would, of course, already have to relate to the whole text of the Social Services Act. I would like to point out here that on the board of the Audit Committee, I have also asked the Minister, by order of this Supervisory Committee, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to present a document which would testify that public support for the provision of services is of general economic interest under the European Commission Implementing Directive 2012/21/EU and does not require notification at European Commission level. I believe that we will see this information for the inspection committee, and we will also be able to share it with the Social Committee, where I also recommend that this press be released. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u11	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Soukup's factual opinion. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I've only been very brief. Technical note. I understand the presentation of basically this novel. It is necessary to quickly valorize the care allowance in some way. Nothing more and nothing less. The colleagues who have so far performed here before me have basically presented such demands and things that we have been discussing in committee for a long time. But I suppose all of this will appear in a big novel. As well as the leak of these care contributions to informal care, let's also give it a more consistent control of the drawing of these funds, etc. So I would like us to limit ourselves to the essentials, it's very simple - valorize this post at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u13	I thank you, and now, please, to Mr Vilímec's microphone, Mr Černoch will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u14	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak because I know that this point should be interrupted at 3:30. I consider the proposal legitimate. Whether it's to be validated across the board or differentiated, there's definitely going to be a debate on the social committee. But to one thing. One thing I didn't miss, virtually. I want to ask the petitioner, Madam Secretary. Each valuation has its budgetary implications. We approved the draft budget for this year, the chapter of the MPSV, with the fact that no amount was originally proposed for valorizing the care allowance. At second reading, first, Mr Bartošek, who originally proposed an amendment to the Social Services Act in the second reading of the budget, then changed it only on a proposal in a numerical way, i.e. he proposed CZK 520 million in addition to the care allowance. I have similarly proposed 550, won the proposal of a government or a government MP, I respect all that. However, each of these proposals was counting on a slightly different system of valorization. He expected that the valorization would take place so that from 1. 7. 2016 will increase the care allowance by 5 % and only from 1 January 2017 will it increase by 5 %. Based on this scheme, the amount of approximately CZK 550, 520 million was calculated and this was also approved at second reading. Now, actually, a few days after the draft state budget has been approved, the government is coming up with another valorisation system when it proposes valorizing from 1. 8. 2016 by 10 %. And it's not the 520, 550 million, but it's 900 million crowns. If I were to subtract it, from the amount that was approved in the second reading or the third reading of the state budget, there's a difference of CZK 380 million. I therefore ask the Minister if he is prepared to find the necessary funds in the chapter of the MPSV to finance the CZK 380 million, because it was not really planned. And I won't forgive the note on the account of the drafting of the budget of chapter MPSV. If I'm diplomatic, I'll say that this chapter was treated in such a special way, because it didn't actually count in the proposal, for example. with one-off contributions from pensioners, which, as approved by the House, amounts to CZK 3.4 billion in the system. That's quite a lot of money, which is why I want to... This shows something about how the state budget is even approved and how this government approaches individual indicators. Then I can't shake the impression that it doesn't make sense and that it's just numbers on paper. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is really ready to deal with the increase, if he envisages an increase of 10 per cent, with the increase in the contribution to the care of the legal approved volume of 380 million crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please, next to the microphone, and that is Mr. Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I will just briefly add that the Dawn will support this law, and I think that anyone who knows it for themselves will give me the truth that for people who are not born with the happiness of being healthy, well, that life is very complex and certainly deserves the support that belongs to them, and that certainly falls within the valorisation of 10 percent, because that fair policy, if there really is to be a fair policy, is meant for people who really need the help of the state. So at Dawn, we'll back it up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u17	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kostřica, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I would like to address the Minister with one thing, because I myself have had very poor experience in our family, where a heavily handicapped person has been treated and the security of the very social services of unregistered facilities. We tried three or four devices and the result was catastrophic. I know there may not be any registration required, but I would like to address the Minister so that she can be kind enough to arrange or make a motion out of her position for some way in which these unregistered devices can be controlled in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u19	Thank you, Ambassador, and please to Mr. Sklenák's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, as I have seen the debate under way, I have come to the impression that this bill has great support in the Chamber of Deputies, and since disabled people are eagerly waiting for our decision, I would like to come up with a proposal to shorten the deadline for committee discussions to 10 days. If this proposal is vetoed or not approved, then I give a second alternative proposal for 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u21	I thank you, Congressman, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u22	We're still at meetings, today I've learned that an extraordinary meeting will take place during the committee week. The bill has been designed to be effective since August 1st. I don't see the only reason why we don't give enough room for committee meetings standard, and I'm not suggesting 60, but I'm sure 30 days will be enough. Ten days is extremely short, so on behalf of two ODS and TOP 09 clubs, I'm raising the veto for a short period of 10 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u23	Yes, I'm registering your veto. Since no one's in the debate... Mrs Aulická is reporting for the debate, and then I have Mrs Semelová's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me also express my support for this amendment under the KSČM, because we really think that this increase is really necessary. However, I would like to make a few more comments. I must clearly say that we recommend a variant, which is also supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and that is a one-off increase of 10 percent, because the second option presented in the explanatory memorandum, by 5% this year and by another 5% in 2017, would not only bring the final increase to the clients in 2017, but would also bring a great administrative burden for the authorities of work, which would be very burdensome. To think about it, however, let me say more about the way and the granting of a contribution to... it is to think about the employment office, that it would not be possible that this apparatus, which is now being secured by the employment office, i.e. Social inquiry, return, payment of this benefit, moved under the state administration of social security. I'm saying this for the reason that opinion doctors who actually work in the social administration, so we think that this agenda would be comprehensive, and it would actually be paid out by one subject--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-001-057.u25	Madam, I am very sorry. It's 3:30. At 15.30 we have a fixed new point. I am forced to interrupt you at this time, we will continue this discussion after the item has been discussed. So now we're going to proceed to the next point and that's
