ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u1	202. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis This item was last discussed on Friday 12 February this year at the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. I remind you that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka gave the opening word on 21 January. The background material of the Ministry of Interior and 22 were distributed to this meeting. 3. other information material has been distributed. I would like Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and designated rapporteur, Mr Jiří Mihola, to take the seats at the rapporteur's table. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he wants to get off. [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, as has already been said here, my last speech here on migration was on 20 January this year. Since then, a period of about two months has passed, and I think it is worth going back to what has happened over the past two months, even before the debate between Members and Members continues at this extraordinary meeting. I am glad that over the last two months, developments at European level have shifted, and I am also glad that, on a fundamental level, European states are following what we have said in the framework of the V4 since the very beginning of the solution to the migration crisis. There is only a common European response to the issue of the migration crisis, and it is now the conclusion of the Balkan route, which is to ensure the protection of the Schengen area, particularly in Greece today, and also active action in Syria, where much of the cause of today's situation lies. Let me comment on the Prague V4 Summit with the Balkan countries. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Visegrad Group, in February, we commemorated this historic moment in the Prague Declaration, where we made it clear that the V4 states are part of Europe and we intend to work actively to preserve the stability and capacity of the European Union. The Prague Declaration states: we want the European Union to be stronger, and we believe that a strong European Union also needs a strong Visegrad group. In this very spirit, we then approached the second topic of our Prague meeting, which was precisely the issue of tackling the migration crisis. We agreed that we needed to close the Balkan route. As for the V4 states, it was important for us to discuss these issues with countries that are directly concerned with our proposals. We therefore invited the President of the Republic of Macedonia to this debate and also the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, who finally confirmed and supported our intentions. Part of our position was that the action plan between the European Union and Turkey must be clearly put to life and be implemented. I would like to point out and stress that the February meeting of the V4 States here in Prague was one of the most important meetings at the time on substantive issues as to how to proceed further in the area of migration. We wanted to bring concrete results to our countries and also to Europe. By agreeing with Macedonia here in Prague and agreeing with Bulgaria on the progress towards the Balkan migration route, we have, in my view, shown that our objective is not a policy that would lead to the deepening of the migration crisis, but that our aim is a concrete, effective solution that will stop illegal migration to the heart of Europe. březnový negotiations at European level showed that the V4 strategy was correct in this respect. Finally, the European Commission adopted to a large extent our principles of access to the solution to the migration crisis. First, on 7 March, the European Union - Turkey summit took place. Specific steps have been agreed here, in particular that Turkey will take back illegal migrants from Greece, i.e. from the nearest European country, where tens of thousands are today. But there has also been an agreement on the closure of the Balkan route, and we have thus reached the answers of the European Union, where we said 'we are able to effectively protect our own borders'. The agreement on the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey is crucial in order to finally reduce the number of people who find themselves on an uncontrolled journey to Europe. We want to break the smuggling networks with the Turkey Return Agreement, because the journey to Europe with the prospect of returning to Turkey will be meaningless. At the same time, thanks to the one-for-one principle, we can help the citizens of Syria more effectively, whose country is devastated by war and which is now around two and a half million in Turkey. The second key component of the agreement is the conclusion of the Balkan route. I consider this one of the achievements of the V4 states. I would like to stress that the conclusion of the Balkan route means, above all, a return to the rules, a return to compliance with the principles of the Schengen area in this area. This means that those who do not meet the conditions of the asylum seeker or who do not want to apply for asylum must not cross the border in those States. The consistent compliance with this principle has led to a significant decline in the number of those who are now entering other European countries across the Balkan route. In a few days, hundreds of people who illegally crossed borders in the Western Balkans have become dozens and units of people. This means that the return to and control of the rules have sent a deterrent signal to illegal migrants. The closure of the Balkan route is clearly a European NO to the current chaos and the efforts of human traffickers to date. I am pleased that the V4 states have also been able to bring Europe into line with the situation in countries such as Macedonia and Bulgaria, as well as in those Balkan countries which are not yet part of the European Union. We will continue to support the countries of the Western Balkans. We are currently working to ensure that these countries have access to the relevant information on migration that we share in the European Union. The results of the EU summit with Turkey were confirmed at the European Council, which ended last week on Friday. Following this, on Sunday, an agreement is under way that refugees who reach Greece from Sunday will be returned to Turkey. Since Sunday, therefore, all persons who have illegally crossed the Aegean from Turkey to Europe should be returned. I would remind you that this has been the most common way for refugees to enter Europe recently. In the first two months of this year, between eight and ten thousand people crossed the Turkish and Greek maritime border on average. This will end now. All those who have so far tried to make money transporting refugees from Turkey to Europe must know that this activity will not produce any results after Sunday. For every returnee who has come to Europe on the way from Turkey to the Aegean Sea and who is a Syrian person, we will adopt a Syrian refugee within the agreed resettlement mechanism from Turkey that meets the criteria for the status of a war runner. So if I simplify it - all those who illegally come to Europe across the sea should be brought back to Turkey. According to the rules, one for one then we will relocate one person from Turkey to Europe, who we know is a Syrian war refugee. [[16.10 hours]] These refugees will only be relocated from Turkey under approved quotas. Returns and resettlement will begin on April 4th. I stress that anyone who is relocated from Turkey to Europe under this mechanism and approved calculus will have to pass a security check. This will ensure maximum control and information about who is coming. If these people fail to pass security clearance, they should not participate in this mechanism. The European Union has agreed within the framework of the Agreement that, after 2018, after the current aid for refugees in Turkey has been exhausted, this assistance will continue for refugees in Turkey. The negotiations also included concrete steps to ensure that the living conditions of Syrian refugees in Turkey are improved so as not to continue to Europe. In the final agreement with Turkey and the conclusions of the European Council, the Czech Republic and V4 managed to push for several priority points. First of all, it is a confirmation that the agreement with Turkey does not create any new commitments for Member States in the area of relocation and resettlement. In addition, as I have already mentioned, we have advocated the support of the Western Balkan countries to regulate illegal migration. Another commitment, the issue of visa liberalisation of the European Union with Turkey, is only valid for all the conditions in force. There is still a level playing field for all candidates for visa-free travel with the European Union, such as Ukraine or Georgia. Finally, the next point that we have pushed into the conclusions of the European Council is the reference to the need for respect for human rights and freedom of expression in Turkey. After the Balkan migration route has been closed and the countries in this area have started to regulate illegal migration, it is now important to pay attention to Greece and its ability to effectively manage border surveillance. First of all, Greece needs sufficient capacity to get all migrants under control, into hotspots and designated facilities. They must ensure these people, because their return to Turkey will begin on 4 April. In recent days, the first group of Turkish immigration officials has arrived in Greece and, at the same time, Greek officials should arrive in Turkey shortly. It is evident that Greece now needs support. The very mechanism of returning illegal migrants from Greece to Turkey will prevent thousands of them from building up in Greece, the territory of the European Union. It is also important, therefore, that this mechanism complies with international standards, that it is subject to clear rules. Greece needs assistance in personnel capacity, it needs police officers and other administrative forces to have sufficient strength in refugee camps to ensure that refugee camps and hotspots work safely and enable refugees to be returned to Turkey. During the weekend, therefore, the ministers of the interior and justice prepared a concrete proposal on how the Czech Republic will support Greece in implementing the agreement and managing migration pressure. On Monday, the government approved a special contribution of CZK 20 million to help Greece to support the management of the situation at the Greek-Macedonian border. We will also support Greece in a staffed manner. We have currently offered 10 asylum experts for EASO, and we have also offered 30 police officers who can work locally in Greece through Frontex. So, if I sum up the current developments in the area of migration, as the V4 states, we have advocated the renewal of the rules, the conclusion of the Balkan route and the achievement of the protection of external Schengen borders. During March, the Balkan route was closed. We have returned to respect the principles of the Schengen area and an agreement has been concluded with Turkey, on the basis of which all illegal migrants arriving in Greece after 20 March should be returned beyond the borders of the European Union back to Turkey. Europe has adopted the principles that we have proposed and also discussed with the Balkan States within the framework of the V4. We are, of course, far from being able to say that the migration crisis is resolved. We have adopted an action plan that sets out concrete steps to prevent people from moving uncontrolledly across the European Union. Europe has sent a clear signal that it can close the Balkan migration route and, if necessary and further routes are established, the Italian route will be restored, then the European Union must close them as well. It is now important that the agreed steps start to be implemented. Aid to Greece must be implemented and it must be assessed whether the agreed mechanism actually works. At European level, work needs to be continued on the creation of a common European Border and Coast Guard. What is crucial is for Europe to be able to guard its borders with its own forces in the future. It is necessary to use the existing capacities in Syria to achieve the stabilisation of this country, to continue peace talks, efforts to restore government and suppress terrorists from the Islamic State. More effective methods for combating terrorism are needed. That is what I think has clearly reminded us of today's attacks in Belgium. The situation in the Balkan countries still needs to be monitored, but also where there is destabilization around the borders of the European Union, for example in Ukraine. And, of course, it is necessary to continue to evaluate the security situation consistently in the Czech Republic so that, as a government, we can guarantee the security of our citizens as much as possible in this complex security situation. So, honourable Members, very briefly on the current developments in the area of the resolution of the migration crisis since 20 January this year, when I was given the opportunity to speak on this matter for the last time on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u3	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. Before we continue the debate, I ask whether the rapporteur wants to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a short time. I managed to get off at the last meeting on the migration crisis point with the essential thing I wanted. In the meantime, of course, things have moved on. So I would like to say to the KDU-ČSL that we are pleased that the new hope for tackling the migration crisis is an agreement with Turkey, according to which all illegal migrants arriving from Turkey to the Greek islands starting on 20 March will be returned to Turkey. However, even in the resolution that we have prepared on this point for a new resolution on new issues, we think that, of course, this mechanism, or this effort to tackle the migration crisis, may not be fully effective, which is demonstrated by the views of some European Union countries or Europe at all. As you know, the President of Austria said that the chances of stopping refugees to Europe following this agreement with Turkey are relatively small, he sees it from 35 to 50 percent. It's pretty hard to say against Chancellor Merkelová in the sense that it's not possible for such a small chance to put everything on just this one card here. Nevertheless, we hope that at least a partial solution to the migration crisis could take place here. KDU-ČSL welcomes privileged partnerships in cooperation with Turkey. It will certainly be good if Turkey continues to approach Europe, but we do not think that the European Union's borders should move further towards Asia. At this point, therefore, we are not in favour of Turkey becoming a member of the European Union. I am saying this directly because these issues are also being opened, or are being stressed by Turkey itself. But, of course, we appreciate that it is a good thing that Turkey is our NATO partner. [[16.20 hours]] Now I would like to move on to the important one, and I would also like to call on other clubs, because here was a gentleman's agreement, which was created by a colleague, Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, who is not present at the moment, I say this so as not to take advantage of it. It was his idea that my colleagues and I welcomed that two representatives would perform for each club in space for 20 minutes. I can already see on the board that there are more representatives, so please the club presidents, if they are willing to live up to this gentleman's agreement to secure it within their club, because this was a voluntary agreement which, of course, does not have any special support in the Rules of Procedure, so that we may vote on it here. I would like to move on to the most important one, that is to read the resolution that is inserted in the system as a House document under No. 3978. This new resolution was drawn up in cooperation with KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, ANO and TOP 09. We are glad that some points, as is apparent from previous communication, are also willing to support colleagues from the club KSČM. I will now read the various resolutions. Then I suppose they will be voted on individually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u5	Mr colleague, just for the record, I add that, of course, you can read the motion for a resolution, but it is necessary to read it in that case again in a detailed debate so that they can be voted on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u6	Okay, I'm gonna drop the reading now. I'm gonna leave it for a detailed debate. I've already told you what number you'll find in the system. Of course, other resolutions are also loaded. Right now, I know about the ODS and Dawn Club resolution. So I am aware of three resolutions so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u7	Thank you, too. Before continuing the interrupted general debate, I recall what has already been said here. Anyway, for the record, actually at the Grémia meeting, it was said in gentlemen's terms that each club should have 20 minutes to perform in the debate, including factual remarks. I therefore ask the President of the MPs to measure the time for their individual Members to respect this gentlemen's agreement. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate. I am registering several requests with priority rights and also factual remarks. They're the first ones. The first point of fact is that of Mr Chvojka, in any case I do not see the Member here, in which case the first point of fact is that of Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence, because I really must ask, given the events in Brussels, whether the government is continuing to accept the first batch of 3 091 illegal immigrants of the Islamic religion to the Czech Republic. I have your written reply directly to my interpelation, so you write directly that your government decided in July 2015 to voluntarily involve the Czech Republic in the EU relocation and resettlement programme, so you voluntarily agreed 400 plus 1,100 immigrants from Greece and Italy - those who illegally penetrated the territory of the European Union - and you continued to reject the EU quotas, where you rejected them as if you had rejected them, but then you nodded to another 1,591 people, Prime Minister. So you've decided to accept 3 091 people. No one has given you a mandate to these commitments, which you accepted against the will of most citizens of the Czech Republic, and you have not even talked about accepting illegal immigrants in the House's election campaign, and we have therefore sought a referendum on this subject, and you have rejected this for us. You write that you will accept them in the first batch in the resorts in Kostelec nad Orlicí and Havířov and you will increase these capacities as necessary. Today, Prime Minister, we have published a petition by the citizens of Kostelec nad Orlicí and Havířov who want to call on a local referendum and defend your dictatorship. I would like to ask you for your clear statement, please, how you will act in the light of the events in Brussels, but it was also Paris and other terrorist attacks, whether you continue to insist on receiving these illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic, or finally this dictatorship of Brussels and you will reject this willfulness of your government. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u9	We will continue with the debate. I have several priority rights here. The first application is made by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, but he apologizes today. I'm canceling his application. Mr Vojtěch Filip, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, followed by President Černoch, followed by President Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, before we begin, I frame my opening words with three quotes, which is why I took some documents with me. I will start with a quote from our master Karel Gott, who said a few years ago: "I am convinced that, especially in recent centuries, there are no mistakes in the area of politics. On the contrary, politics is based on precise scenarios, nothing happens by chance, even the worst of wars. The same banks supported the one who unleashed and negotiated with the one who was attacked. They agreed on what they would pay when they sent them weapons." Karel Gott basically follows on to the more than a hundred years old words of Nahum Goldmann, who in 1915 said: "The meaning and historical mission of our time can be summed up in one sentence. Its task is to establish a new order and to redefine the role of mankind. The current social system must be replaced by another, and this transformation consists of two steps: the destruction of the old order and the establishment of a new one. First it will be necessary to remove any boundaries, to abolish all traditions and to tear individuals out of their natural environment. Age will be a sign of sickness. The powers that carry out this negative role of our time are capitalism in the area of economic and social and democracy on the political-spiritual field. The work is finished only by the military spirit." And now I'm going back to the present. I would like to untraditionally address Daniel Maes' statement, which is spiritual and stated it at the Vatican Radio, when it states what is in Syria: "Six years ago I came to Syria with many prejudices and suspicions. However, contact with local residents caused me a cultural shock. I admit that individual and political freedoms were not too developed in Syria, but this lack was highly balanced by the harmonious coexistence of many religious communities and ethnicities and zero crime. The country was not indebted, there was no homeless person, on the contrary hundreds of thousands of refugees from the surrounding countries were accepted and cared for as well as the citizens here. Moreover, everyday life was economical, cheap food, schools, universities, and hospitals were free of charge to us foreigners belonging to the Syrian monk community, as we ourselves experienced." But this idyllic idea was violently overcome by civil war, which, according to the Belgian priest, was stirred up by foreigners, not Syřan. "We saw with our own eyes how foreigners, not Syřan, organized demonstrations that were filmed by Al-Jazier's cathartic television and then broadcast all over the world with false interpretation that the Syrian people were rebelling against dictatorship. In chaos, the government decided not to protect its oil deposits in the desert, but its absolute priority became the protection of the population." [[16.30 hours]] Today we witnessed an attack in Brussels. We can say that the war in Europe began with an attack on Charlie Hebdo or Paris or Brussels. And I say that the war against Europe began a long time ago, at the latest in April 1999 by attacking Yugoslavia. This brutal, unwarranted crime of international law, war crime, actually started a war against Europe, which became the true competitor of the world's most powerful economy, the United States of America. The United States of America cannot meet half a billion economically active people with a high standard of living, with technologies similar to those in the United States, and 350 million Američan, of course, are afraid of such competition. That is why they accepted the theory of chaos and began to fight against Europe. That's reality. And we have adopted various resolutions here, various steps that have never led to the important thing: that we as the Czech Republic, part of the European Union, have worked on Europe's own defined interest, which will be different from the interests of our competitors since 2004. And in building a multipolar world, nothing else is possible. If we accept that we will parrot foreign interests, not the interests of the Czech Republic, or the interests of our community, in which we have voluntarily decided, within the framework of the referendum, in the European Union, we are unable to maintain neither our own interests nor the European Union that we have entered after the referendum. The essence of this war is that in the theory of chaos Europe will become a warplace again, as did those who defined the next steps in 1915, i.e. that there will be a warfield in Europe and some banks, selected banks, will make money by financing both those who started the war and those who will have to defend themselves. Yes, it's paid off, twice. In World War I and World War II. Just remember the most famous examples of World War II, the treaty between the United States of America and the then Soviet Union on loan and lease, when a number of weapons were delivered by water route to Murmansk port, and most of those wheeled vehicles were from the United States of America before they started producing them in the Soviet Union, and they were paid back by the Soviet Union then until 1960, I think. It was only then that the great crisis began, both Caribbean and Berlin. We're in the same situation now. Europe is in the same situation because it has nothing to do with defending the theory of chaos but to prevent individual European nations from being uprooted, their more than a thousand-year-old culture has been destroyed to give up what is our own. And we will talk, forgive me, if we have sufficiently accepted the surrender agreement between the European Union and Turkey. It's surrender! Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to nod to the fact that, in order to fulfil the allied state under the North Atlantic Treaty, Turkey, it will receive money from others, that it will fulfil its obligations to protect its own national border, even the border between Europe and Turkey. The statement that we have heard that, first, NATO should not be involved in this at all, that NATO does not concern the migration wave, is nonsense. It was also senseless and false that NATO was unable to control the external Schengen border. Please, this is a ridiculous statement! The strongest armies in the world are unable to guard the border between Turkey and Greece? The sea line in the Mediterranean? That's a ridiculous statement! Even the biggest fool can't believe it! But if he believes that, in that case, he believes that this military force is useless in the world or to defend some foreign interests that have nothing to do with our interests. In this respect, therefore, I cannot say anything other than the whole migration crisis that the essence is not whether or not we are going to argue with Turkey to what extent it will fulfil its allied commitments, but whether we are able as a 28-year-old, as the European Union, as others, who are still on a route that is not in the Union, such as Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, if they are able to find a common interest in dealing with the cause of the crisis. The cause of the crisis is the war in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the war in Syria. The Syrian people did not really provoke the war. In this respect, I believe that we need to make it clear whether the four years of foreign armies and the declared military support so-called. moderate Islamists, who each time they were armed, went to Al-Nusra's side, or, if you will, to the Islamic State, whether it really led to the cause of the crisis being resolved, or whether it provoked or deepened the crisis and thus raised the migration wave. Because the migration wave doesn't hit the United States of America. The migration wave affects the European Union, including the Czech Republic. Yes, the Prime Minister can, and he is right to say, that the migration wave from these Arab states so far, I note so far, has passed the Czech Republic. But as long as it takes, no one can answer. In this respect, it must therefore be said that it is our duty as Czech politicians, and I ask the Prime Minister to clearly define the interest of the Czech Republic, an interest identical to that of the other countries of the twenty-eight, that the causes of the crisis need to be addressed. That it is necessary to reject all false arguments that it is possible without a peaceful settlement in Syria, even by military force under the patronage of the UN, to find the way that these people who were fleeing the war could return. That's our duty. Not to think about whether the quota is like that or poppy. Excuse me, it's like you want to tape a hole with duct tape made by a machine gun. In this respect, I believe that the real concern is the definition of the interests of the Czech Republic, the definition of the interests of the European Union in order to resolve this crisis. And if at least two Member States of the European Union, such as France and England, who are permanent members of the Security Council, do not contribute to the UN troops addressing the situation in Syria and Iraq, we cannot rid ourselves of the next migration wave, because if there is a war, if there is a genocide of the Yazids, other Christians and other people there, the Kurd, we can never say that the migration wave will end in this regard. And please, we're either gonna take care of some really serious things, or we're gonna wipe our eyes out here. I am pointing out that I have given the quotes quite deliberately in order to realise what situation we are in. Either we're in a situation where we're gonna have a friendly pat on each other's shoulders, like the government did, or we're gonna say that this step is possible, but it's not enough. I cannot say that I am satisfied with the motions for resolutions that are being tabled so far, but in any case, I think that three are in aid, the others are in support, because they lead to at least eliminating at least part of the danger that awaits Czech citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u11	Thank you, Vice-President. The President of Černoch shall speak with priority and the President of the Fiala shall prepare himself. I'm sorry, Chairman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to make a procedural proposal following the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs mentioned here, in accordance with Article 59 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I propose 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure that we limit the speaking time at this point to 10 minutes, while at the same time allowing one Member to speak no more than twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u13	This is a procedural proposal, in which case I will have it voted on without debate. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering your application for check-out. First, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin your electronic cards. There was a procedural proposal under Section 59 concerning the limitation of speaking time in order to allow the performer to speak for a maximum of 10 minutes and to speak for a maximum of twice to the present point. As the number of Members present has stabilized, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal, as it has been said, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with serial number 342, registered 109 Members of Parliament, for proposal 86, against 7. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the President of Černoch will speak, and the President of the Fiala will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the very beginning, I would like to offer my condolences to the survivors and the victims of the attack this morning, because I think it's appropriate and it should be heard. The situation is certainly not as pink as the Prime Minister has described. If you were watching, Prime Minister, today's media, it was clear evidence. Unfortunately, there is really nothing going on, and we are in a situation where we are being blackmailed by a state that demands both money and visa-free travel. Strong V4 for sure. But the question: Why don't you join Slovakia and Hungary and reject the quotas or accept them? Because if the V4 is strong, you, Prime Minister, are not strong. Political correctness, I don't think it's appropriate here. I would like to address the very agreement that has been made with Turkey. Moreover, the treaty with Turkey is the same as the treaty with the devil, unfortunately signed by our own blood. The conditions agreed at the EU summit with Turkey are drastically threatening the security of the Czech Republic. The agreement with Turkey can be divided into two parts. The first is an agreement on the exchange of immigrants one for one and the setting of the mechanism as it happens. The second part of the agreement is what the European Union will pay for it and, in turn, our Czech Republic. We'll pay our security for it. According to the Treaty, the visa regime for Turkish citizens travelling to the European Union is to be abolished by the end of June 2016. We challenged Prime Minister Sobotka, and we wanted to stop this agreement at the last moment. Last Thursday, on a proposal from Dawn, the Committee on European Affairs agreed that the government should not accept visa-free relations with Turkey, that it is simply very dangerous. However, the Prime Minister ignored this motion, and despite this important committee of the Chamber of Deputies, he accepted this resolution. Visa relations with Turkey are one of the fundamental pillars of our security against the penetration of the Middle East radicals. Mr. Prime Minister, you are threatening the security of all citizens of the Czech Republic by canceling it in such a jump. Visa relations with Turkey have been valid for a long time and its justification is confirmed by security experts. After all, we cannot afford visa-free contact with a country that behaves as it does, which has not refuted the fact that it is trading with the Islamic State in which radicals from the Islamic State move. So I ask the government: What has changed to Turkey's security in recent times that we can now accept visa-free travel? The answer I think is very simple. Nothing's changed. Our security was just being handled for a deal that wouldn't work anyway. Turkey has put itself through the conditions by which it has kicked the door from the European Union, and you, Prime Minister, have unfortunately still applauded and rejoiced. Turkey has not only advocated visa-free travel, which is due to begin in three months, but has also forced the recovery of Turkey's accession to the European Union. Prime Minister, do you really want Turkey to join the European Union? I say openly here that we do not want to be in the European Union, where Turkey will also be. The third Turkish victory is the funds that we are to hand over to Turkey, and Europe has signed a €6 billion check for Turkey. The mechanism that Prime Minister Sobotka and Chancellor Merkelová bought at this enormous price is also important. I will not go into the analysis of how difficult it is to distinguish who is and who is not a real refugee, but the point is that in no way do I trust the Turkish and Greek authorities that they are able to handle such processes. We all know cases of missing documents, forged passports, or non-cooperation with the authorities. The status of a fugitive before the war will be subject to incredible corruption. The money that refugees have so far paid to smugglers and smugglers will now be paid by Turkish officials to recognize them as refugees. But what is the question that no one has answered so far is what will happen to those tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of immigrants who should now begin to accumulate in Greece. Who's gonna take them? Chancellor Merkelová is thus preparing the ground for the introduction of superquotas. It's not gonna be a few thousand people, it's gonna be hundreds of thousands. Half a million people will gather in Greece in six months, and the situation will be unsustainable. The European Commission will then come up with the fact that the Member States must take them over immediately. The redistribution will be gigantic. And we refuse to participate in these agreements because our citizens will only pay for them. The Czech Republic must distance itself from the immigration quotas as Fico did in Slovakia or Orbán in Hungary. The Czech Republic must reject the quotas and hold a referendum on these countries, following the model of these countries. Finally, I want to underline that the current policy of the European Union and the Czech Government is a direct threat to the security of the Czech Republic. We therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies adopt these resolutions, which should change the Czech Government's policy. We will, of course, read the resolution in a detailed debate, but I would like to introduce you to what we are proposing. We have two resolutions. The first one: "The Chamber of Deputies I. rejects the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the return of immigrants and considers it a threat to the security of the Czech Republic; II. rejects the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey; III. rejects the recovery of Turkey's accession process to the European Union; IV. rejects the introduction of a one-on-one system for the exchange of immigrants between the European Union and Turkey; V. refuses to pay money to Turkey on the basis of this agreement from the Czech state budget." And the second resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to I. immediately halted the reception of illegal immigrants on the basis of immigration quotas; II. put out a referendum on immigration quotas; III. established the protection of Czech borders by July 2016 at the latest in connection with the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey; IV. She has prepared a bill that will outlaw political radical Islam." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u15	Thank you, too. The President of the Fiala will now speak with priority right and prepare Mrs Dobešová with the club's position. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are talking today about the migration crisis, but, of course, I am not happy that we are only talking today about the things that we should have discussed before the Prime Minister left for the negotiations on agreements with Turkey. By the way, the debate that we had here in the past about dealing with these things at the European Affairs Committee meeting, I don't know how many of you were on that committee. I am a member of it and the last meeting shows exactly why we cannot discuss it there: because we had about an hour to discuss with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will say something, four Members will ask, then, of course, the debate is over. We are not discussing the mandate, but a comment on the mandate. And on such serious matters as these days at European Union level, it is simply not possible for the Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic to speak to Members of the Czech Republic on 20 January and then on 23rd or what date is today March - the twenty-second - and in the meantime he referred only to the meeting in the Committee on European Affairs. It's not good. And the things the Czech Republic is committed to in the meantime are inevitable in many ways. Because, of course, I respect both the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and the informal agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, so I will limit myself to just a few comments and, above all, to the questions I wish to put to the Prime Minister in connection with the European Council, unfortunately, after. The conclusions reached by the European Council need to be assessed with reserved optimism and, above all, realisticly, because the agreement is neither self-savory, nor is it a solution to the migration crisis, even though some politicians are selling it to their domestic audience. When we look at the data published by the High Commissioner for Refugees, for example, we can clearly see that the migratory tide is increasing. According to current data came from the beginning of January to 19 March so-called. 147,000 refugees on the Mediterranean route, with a vast majority coming across the Greek border, where 146,000 migrants arrived. If you compare it to 2015, you'll find 12,000 refugees have arrived on the Greek border in that time. This makes it clear that migration pressure is intensifying. The existing instruments are not effective and it appears that NATO monitoring and observation missions in the Aegean are not yet very effective. And now what a Union agreement from the previous days to deal with this situation offers us. First of all, it is the one-for-one mechanism - for each returned refugee from the Greek islands, one Syřan will be transferred from Turkey and the proposal counts on a total of 72,000 people. The Prime Minister says that there are no new commitments from this arrangement and everything will be done according to the quotas negotiated. Yes, the agreement says that the Syřan will be returned as a substitute for the number of resettled so far - but just for information, I would add that 937 refugees were relocated from the ambitious number of 160,000 to last week. That's not the problem. The problem is that the agreement with Turkey states that the Member States welcome the Commission's intention to amend the already valid decision on relocation quotas when we are close to reaching the ceiling of the 72,000 refugees, and that de facto means that the government has signed the Bianko check for further quotas from anywhere at any time. We can therefore see that, thanks to the Czech Government's inconsistent attitude, migration quotas have become a permanent phenomenon of European policy, which is being worked with and which, as you can see, is also expected for the future. Moreover, these measures concern only Greece. Of course, smuggling gangs will look for other routes to Europe. After all, this is recognised by the European Council itself, which declares that it is extremely cautious with regard to new possible routes for illegal migrants. The Prime Minister also admitted that alternative trips were imminent in his performance on Czech Television. I therefore ask the Prime Minister how he will react to changes in migration routes and how they can have a direct impact on the Czech Republic. I would also like to ask the question which has already been partially raised here, and that is on the issue of visa liberalisation with Turkey. Since the conclusion of the agreement, approved by all EU Heads of State and Head of State and thus Czech Prime Minister, says that the completion of the travel map to meet visa liberalisation towards all participating Member States will be accelerated with a view that the visa requirement for Turkey's citizens will be abolished by the end of June 2016 at the latest if all the necessary conditions are met. And I am asking the Prime Minister what position he took on the European leaders' negotiations, especially because the Committee on European Affairs, which acts here on behalf of the Chamber of Deputies, also approved the votes of government Members of the resolution before the European Council, calling on the Government to reject the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. The Czech Prime Minister acted accordingly and refused visa liberalisation with Turkey, did he not? The European Council further expresses its conclusions on the progress made in the work on the proposal concerning the European Border and Coast Guard, which should be adopted as quickly as possible. I ask the Prime Minister what position the government has taken on the possibility of this border and coast guard intervening in the territory of a Member State without his permission and whether this competence is still part of the forthcoming agreement. Furthermore, the conclusions of the European Council include a statement that work will continue on the future structure of migration policy, including the Dublin Regulation. And I am repeatedly calling on the Prime Minister here to inform the House, which has not yet happened, what the Czech Government and Czech diplomacy on the issue of revision and the future form of European integration policy will stand up for, even because the actions that have been taken so far indicate its considerable communarisation at the expense of the existing powers of the Member States. At the end of last October, and I would point out here, because we will rarely get to the debate on migration in the House of Deputies, Prime Minister Sobotka did not at the European Council turn to the creation of a common EU asylum management system that would lead to the introduction of the so-called 'EU asylum'. the asylum code, i.e. the Communityisation of international protection proceedings, which would be a fundamental restriction on our country's sovereignty. We need to talk about these things here, ladies and gentlemen! We cannot avoid this debate as the government coalition has done so far. These questions must be answered by the Prime Minister, Members and the public. These are absolutely fundamental issues and are not enough for them to have standard discussions in the Committee on European Affairs. In this context, I ask once again and I call on the Government to respect the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and to report regularly to the Chamber of Deputies on the positions that the Czech Prime Minister and the Czech Government will hold during negotiations in the European institutions. Not until later, but before, because the point is to agree here on what the Czech Republic will want to push through within the European institutions on the issue of the migration crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with Mrs Dobešová's priority right, President Kováčik will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u18	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am extremely sorry to say, at the beginning of my speech, that we are discussing and meeting in the Chamber of Deputies on this subject at a time that is very tragic for the whole of Europe, at a time when the people of Europe are losing their lives, at a time when Europe has opened its arms, it has shown its better face so that its inhabitants will eventually be killed. What seemed extraordinary during the first January attacks in France last year, the November attacks in France and the last attack in Brussels have shown that Europe is at war. The events we saw on television from the Middle East are happening in Europe today. The war, along with the refugees, came to Europe. Why could this have happened? The cause is undoubtedly the events in the Middle East and, in particular, the Syrian conflict. Recently, the most stable and safest country in the region, Syria, where various ethnicities lived beside each other, collapsed into an unprecedented civil war. And even if it is not directly related, Syria has also received a huge number of refugees from Iraq this time, and for one time even Syria has been the largest recipient of these refugees, where it is estimated that 1.2 to 1.4 million refugees have gone. And today? The Syřan are fleeing today. Perhaps it would be worth examining the extent to which these refugees have created a concoction for the expansion of the so-called. The Islamic state that now controls part of Syria and Iraq. [[17,00 hours]] As events in Brussels show, the foothills of the Islamic State are also beginning to work actively in Europe in areas where a large minority of these areas live. This is Brussels. Everyone knew for a long time that the most radical Islamic minority lived in Belgium, and nobody practically did anything about it. They were simply left to their fate in the suburbs of Belgian cities. And that came back today. The capture of the terrorist Abdeslam, who was involved in terrorist acts in France, showed the danger we are in. This man has been hiding for four months from justice. Part of the intelligence service even believed that he had fled to Syria. As it turns out, he was very professionally hiding in Brussels. And who was hiding him? Apparently, family, friends and people who didn't belong in the radical Islamic community at all. It was called. neighbourly solidarity. During the preliminary investigation and information from the press, it appears that the Islamic State has managed to get a professional armory, a manufacturer of suicide vests and explosives to Europe thanks to the flow of refugees. It is also estimated that there are 90 prepared kamikaze attackers in Europe. And as it turns out, some of them just hit Brussels. The events in Brussels have shown the threat that Europe is in when it accepts so many refugees that it knows nothing about. Events in France and Brussels have shown that not all refugees come with good intentions. However, when I watch closely the appearance of some EU politicians, I have the impression that they did not perceive these problems at all at first, and unfortunately some do not want to see it today. In this context, I would also like to warn the EU about another possible wave of migration caused by climate change. In the Middle East, rapid water resources dry up, and this can cause a much higher and unstoppable wave of migration of desperate people seeking better living conditions. We should be dealing with this. We should invest money in projects not only to resaturate people who flee to refugee camps before the war, but in projects to produce drinking water from saltwater in the Middle East. However, I have the impression that some of our partners from the western EU countries are not aware of the concerns and experiences of the new Member States at all. I often attend European meetings at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, and this clearly follows from these negotiations. On the contrary, some countries like Germany thought that migration would reverse the demographic trend of the decline in their population. That is, in 2050, the most populous EU country should be the United Kingdom followed by France and then Germany. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the invitation of German Chancellor Angela Merkelová was the initiate and trigger of this uncontrollable migration. That is why, at the beginning, this migration was represented by Germany and the EU's leadership as an innocent escape by wannabe qualified people from war-threatening areas that deserve our help and open arms. According to these naive ideas, the European Commission has also behaved, which instead of protecting the EU's external borders, has been patronizing the supposedly irresponsible countries that do not want to accept these future European workers. However, as it turns out, the opinion of the supposedly irresponsible countries is correct. Facts show that this is not a random wave of migration of poor qualified experts, but an organized tide that in many cases has the character of organized invasion of Europe. Terrorist attacks in France and Belgium suggest that the so-called interest may be behind this. The Islamic State, which brings unrest to Europe. Today, under the blows of international coalitions in Syria and Iraq, terrorists are being defeated. Their best way is to hide in Europe. However, they do not run away, they only carry activities within the EU. In particular, countries where there is a cocoon for their activity at a time of a strong Islamic minority are in great danger. This must be a lesson for the Czech Republic, so that this does not happen in our country. In this context, we must not accept any refugees from these areas into the uprooted terrorist network of radical Islamists. I believe that we must introduce permanent border controls to know who is coming to us. What would happen in our country if such migrants got here? For these reasons, we must not allow anyone from the current refugee wave to enter the Czech Republic in the form of forced quotas. In this context, I would like to appreciate the position of the Czech Government that it has rejected mandatory quotas for forced deployment of refugees. Every state has a sovereign right to decide who it accepts, who it helps. There is no way this can happen at the expense of its own citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still wondering why the EU leadership has taken such a strange stand for this crisis. Today, I believe that was the intention. In this way, some European elites have tried and are still trying to speed up the federalization of Europe. A crisis has been created and quotas have been proposed as a solution. If we adopted such a solution, we would lose control of our own territory and become, in fact, the provinces of Europe. And the share we would have in its management has shown in favour of voting our rejection of quotas. As far as the just signed EU treaty with Turkey is concerned, I believe that this treaty is unable to produce a long-term outcome. Europe's worth six billion. EUR and the provision of visas bought only time. In doing so, we all know that Turkey is trying to make the most of this situation in its favour. And the last even increased influx of refugees confirms that. I am concerned that this next treaty has rather pointed to the EU's weakness and will support other countries' efforts to leave the EU and, on the contrary, Turkey will raise its demands. It is Turkey's weak position to take into account the disintegration of its tourist industry and the sanctions on the part of Russia that hit the Turkish economy severely. Moreover, there is a regular war in Turkey in its territory, where the Kurd live. And the events of the last few days when two independent journals were taken over show that his path to democracy is very long. It follows that today we are not facing a migration crisis, but an EU crisis as a whole. This is what is manifesting itself before the upcoming referendum on the EU in the UK. The former head of Interpol even said that the EU's policy to protect the internal border is as if they had posted an inscription that welcomes terrorists to Europe. And that is what we are witnessing in Brussels. I fear that there may soon be a conflict in the Balkans, where the veterans of the Islamic State are also heading. Recently, there have been signs at Orthodox churches in Kosovo that the Islamic State is coming. The EU needs a fundamental reform if we do not want to end up as a Roman empire. We must consistently reject the federalisation of Europe and support the EU of sovereign states. National parliaments must gain greater powers. Instead of protecting the security of its own people, who are massacred by the Islamic State, the EU is talking about solidarity with refugees through which Islamist extremists send their troops to Europe. In other words, it shows solidarity with strangers at the expense of its own citizens. I am worried that this is also because European elites are completely unaware of reality and do not know what citizens want. This is also being used by the local radicals of individual Member States when fascist parties come to Parliament somewhere. The only way out of this vicious circle is to return to the main task that each state has, and that is to ensure security. If the EU is unable to do so, it is necessary for the Czech Republic to do so alone and to work even harder within the V4 to protect its borders. We ask the EU to say less about solidarity and action to ensure security and halt migration flows. There is also a need to create sufficient humanitarian capacity to help refugees and to return them to their homeland when this conflict is over. The most important thing is to call things real names. If the EU does not do this, countries that want to leave this community will only increase. Every crisis brings challenges and can move us forward. This also applies to the migration crisis. This crisis has clearly shown that imposing EU federalism on Member States is the path of its disintegration. [[17.10 hours]] Let us stop uncontrolled migration and start building the European Union as a community of national states. The EU is primarily an economic community for us. Let us respect his economic space and the trade agreements he negotiates. In this sense, I expect the European Commission today, in particular, to negotiate and sign the Transatlantic Agreement on Trade and Investment. This will strengthen Europe and increase our security for NATO. It is our duty to take all steps to preserve a calm Europe for all our citizens and especially for our children. This is our priority task. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Schwarzenberg will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is noteworthy that the greater exercise in protecting the borders of the European Union, cursing the leaders of the Commission and all of the European Union, are primarily politicians who, on the other hand, refuse to give the European Union more resources and more powers to accomplish this task at all. With forgiveness, we're at war with the Islamic State. And in war, you need three things. Money, money, and money again. In recent years, we all European states have neglected our defence and security budget, reducing it year after year. Now we have the opportunity to raise and also give the European Union both the powers and the money so that it can accomplish this task at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u21	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, President Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, the main position of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was delivered by the President of the Central Committee and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip a few moments ago. Allow me to comment on the motion for a resolution, which is the fruit of the coalition agreement, where we have already asked in the morning at the meeting of the Grémia House for us to vote on individual points separately, because, as has already been presented, some of the points of the motion for a resolution are sympathetic to us, and others are fundamentally unlikable to us. Let me now briefly comment on the individual points. As regards point 1 of the proposal for that resolution, where the Chamber of Deputies is to appreciate the previous steps and proposals of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the issue of the migration crisis, I must say that from these steps and from these proposals and from these procedures of the Government of the Czech Republic we evaluate positively only the one contained in point 2, i.e. the fact that we continue to reject very strongly the introduction of the mandatory redistributive mechanism of refugees, these are the so-called. quotas, in whatever form, both voluntary and involuntary, have been our strong position from the outset. To point 1, I must say that if the Government's position and those steps were to be taken, the Czech Government's proposals also contained what the Czech Social Security Office has been talking about since the beginning, i.e. naming the causes of the crisis, naming the possibility of solving it, naming the responsibilities of the individual culprits of the crisis, because every crisis has its culprits, it is not only an objective process, but it is to a large extent also a subjective matter that is caused by the wrong, irresponsible or harmful policies of those who lead the so-called world policy, if you wish, world leaders, if you wish, world gendarmes, as history calls it. If it were named that where the foot of an American soldier or a European soldier entered in an attempt to export democracy and to name it either the Arab Spring, the Color Revolution or the like, there are problems everywhere, and let us take it from North Africa to Ukraine. [[He speaks with a strong, strong voice.]] And nowhere, nowhere was the original advertising intent to lead to some sensible end. On the contrary. Let us take a look at the situation in Libya today, and Kaddáfí had to leave because his policy of oil trade, a separate policy, did not like it. Let's see what the situation in Iraq is, and Saddám Husajn had to leave, but I don't think he was a lamb at all. Let us see what the situation in Syria is like in order to eliminate Bashar Bašár-Asad, what was happening there, and what the consequences of this policy must be endured in Europe's territory. Therefore, the KSČM will not support point 1 in which the House is to appreciate the steps of the government of the Czech Republic. As far as point 3 is concerned, of course, we would like to support that proposal, which expresses concern about the fact that the European Union, in cooperation with other countries, has failed to effectively control and substantially reduce migration flows, and therefore welcomes progress in negotiations with Turkey, in particular the return policy agreement. If you remember, colleagues and colleagues, in the beginning and months after the migration crisis began, the KSČM was the only one who claimed that there was also a lack of a return policy in the whole matter. That's still missing! Because if there really was such a solution, at least the first steps were reasonably implemented to the extent that corresponds to the dimension of the problem. Unfortunately, there is no such thing! For this reason, we reject the negotiations that have so far taken place with Turkey as those which are not fully effective. I attended a visit to Turkey at the beginning of the crisis. I know what the situation was back then. We called for the European Union and its institutions to be responsible for the situation. The Turek then warned about what subsequently came. Unfortunately, when it was possible to intervene, the European Union left the Turek alone and they made their own solution and their own policy. And now we're trying so-called. Chasing the cat by the tail. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. This is linked to the question that we are very responsible and detailed in point 4, where it is proposed to promote financial compensation for the costs of returning migrants at the estimated amount of 300 million. The euro for six months for Turkey, while at the same time asking the European Commission for control and consistent evaluation of the funds spent. Well, this is a classic salami method that only allows for more, more and more and more six months to come and more requests for further and further increases. As it was said before me that there were only three solutions: money, money, money. But we don't see the solution yet. No effective method of stopping the flow of migrants, as well as what the ANO colleague said, is that there are other possible causes for the spread of migratory waves, so it does not guarantee that if we put money into Turkey, there will be some, now that the milk is spilled, a sensible solution. We must say, however, that I should not be understood as fundamentally negative, that we support and vote in favour of the proposal under point 5, where the Chamber of Deputies is here to ask the Government of the Czech Republic and to ask the wider community for enforcement of such measures, which will take into account the condition of compliance, virtually. ensuring the security of EU countries, creating sufficient, effective humanitarian capacity to help refugees outside the EU. If you remember, at the very beginning, we said here, and not only here, but also in the media, we who are here for KSČM: let's help where the worst is now. That's in Turkey, Jordan, and the countries that are immediately on that front line. Unfortunately, we were alone. That is why we are also supporting this measure now. We also support paragraph 6, where we consider, like colleagues and colleagues, the rest of you from the government coalition or the opposition of the right-wing party, to be essential in order, above all, to ensure control of the external borders of the Schengen area. [[17.20 hours]] That is why we know and we want to say that it is essential for the common border and coast guard to be set up in a capacity capable of ensuring this objective. I just deliver along with a lot of you - until when? When will it be? Because otherwise, it's an empty declaration. But it will still have our support. Similarly, point 7 can become an empty declaration, and let us be really careful that it is not merely an empty declaration when we ask the Government of the Czech Republic to analyse the current changes in positions and follow-up actions of the Member States of the European Union, especially Germany, on the issue of tackling the migration crisis. The beginning of the problems is in the unfortunate statements of the Chancellor and maybe the continuation of the problems will be in the same. So, yes, be careful to be careful, but be careful that it is not only a declaration, but also to be able to react flexibly, clearly, clearly, at the moment to what would possibly change. We will require, or we would like to hear at least, even at point 8 where we want to impose on the Czech Government, as the House, to prepare - I would say that we will ask the Czech Government to prepare all necessary measures to respond adequately in the event of changes in migration routes with a direct impact on the Czech Republic. That's the obvious thing, we just want to hear more specific things when it's going to be, so that we can be in case the changes happen, and that they can happen, so that we can be prepared not to tell each other what we could have done if we had done then. Finally, point 9. He has our support. We call on the Government of the Czech Republic and we communists to promote these principles, which we are talking about, at least those we support, in all negotiations at all levels and areas, both at home and internationally. True, it is merely a challenge, but if it is consistently met, I am convinced that we are not sitting here unnecessarily, that we are not discussing this unnecessarily, and that the impact on citizens of the Czech Republic will be positive in order to address this issue, so that citizens of the Czech Republic feel safer at home in their country. Thank you for the attention and patience you have listened to me with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u23	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. I ask the heads of government clubs to secure one of the ministers, because I have at least two requests for the debate to continue only in the presence of members of the government. In the meantime - I will give a word to my colleague Černoch - I will only read an apology from the Minister of Environment to Richard Brabec at 17 o'clock for work reasons. A colleague of the Černoch with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to interrupt this very important point, but I am really glad that the Minister of the Interior has arrived, and I think the Prime Minister should be here to listen to this debate and this discussion. He's ruthless - he's ruthless - that he doesn't care at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u25	So, we have a member of the government, we can proceed. And now, with the opinion of Mrs Miroslava Němcová of the ODS MEP's club, Mr Martin Lank will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, before I begin with what I have prepared and what I want to address, I must respond to what KSČM President Pavel Kováčik mentioned earlier. By emphasising what she was promoting as the only Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, and basically she was the only one who understood the problem, suggested solutions, just nobody listened and didn't take them into account. Mr President, through the management meeting, I would like to send you a message to remember the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of February 2015, where the Civil Democratic Party proposed a resolution by my mouth, where all the questions were both external protection of the Schengen borders and humanitarian aid to those areas where refugees outside the European Union were concentrated, so some 150 or 155 members of the Chamber of Deputies voted in favour of this resolution. I think we need to put these things on the right plane. It's not this debate, it can't be about us screaming and beating each other in the breasts with the maximum power of our voice, who said a sentence sooner and some sentence later, and taking possession of something that we didn't do, because the problem that is so big, it doesn't lead to anything at all. I am sorry, and I have to repeat what the President of the Civil Democratic Party, Petr Fiala, has said here about the reservations that we have to dislike the Prime Minister for this debate, which is the biggest problem in the Czech Republic and the biggest problem in the current world, in some sense. The references to the European Committee meetings are completely false. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know that when one committee meets, there are probably many others. This is exactly what happened last Thursday when the European Committee was meeting to give the Prime Minister's mandate before the European Council. At that time, other committees, such as mine, met, and it was not at all conceivable that I could participate in this debate. That's the first thing I want to say. So that we don't keep hitting each other's heads here, that when there's something going on in the Committee on European Affairs, there's no need for a debate in plenary. Among other things, it is also necessary, because it is our citizens who can follow the very course of the Chamber of Deputies. Even if it is sometimes in the hours of the night with some distance, they can take a picture of who comes up with what arguments and with what suggestions and how they can justify them. They cannot follow the negotiations of the Committee on European Affairs in this way, and if you have any other experience, that people are worried about more than the issue of migration, I do not have this experience, and that is why we have always insisted that the Chamber of Deputies be the one who opens this space, and the Prime Minister has also taken a positive stand. I am sorry that he is not here, I am sorry - which I would demand as normal for every Prime Minister in the crisis situation in which Europe is - that he will not speak at the opening of every meeting of the Prime Minister and will not say: honourable colleagues, since our last meeting these events have occurred, I have this attitude to them, the Government of the Czech Republic has responded to them in this way and in the shortest future awaits us in some of the tasks that we want to address in this way and in this way. That would be a normal position facing the most serious problem we face. But we're here to play hide and seek thanks to the Prime Minister. The opposition is still trying to get something that is troubling our citizens in the agenda, and we will get to this debate under extreme pressure. So now I'm only going to respond to what's up to date because there's no point in talking about what we talked about a year ago that we talked about six months ago. The current thing is that last week the European Council sat down. The European Council has decided to take a step towards Turkey. It has decided essentially in two areas, thus leaving Turkey with the effective protection of the external borders of the Schengen area, and this will give Turkey some relief. Among them, there have been several times mentioned visa waivers and other things. Of course, some commentators understand this action by Turkey and refer to them in very pejorative words as blackmail, some looking for a different level, but I believe that the whole negotiation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey was flawed and flawed. Defective because the Prime Minister of the Czech Government was given a mandate from the Committee on European Affairs to certainly not go to Turkey's demands in some areas, but he went to them. So what is the responsibility of the Prime Minister in front of Czech citizens, when confusion arises and citizens cease to trust that people who are the only ones who can go to Brussels can sit there, the only ones who can act and the only ones who can make decisions, leave something behind, and then do the exact opposite? [[17.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, if there is something very serious, it is that this ambiguous attitude encourages the activity of undemocratic force and radicalising extremist forces, and we can all pay for that. I believe that the agreement with Turkey does not stand firm. After all, my opinion might not be that important, but the leaders of Austria have said the same thing - the President of KDU-ČSL Mihola, the President of Austria, talks about this, the Austrian Interior Minister, that this agreement will not solve the problem with Turkey. They have considerable doubts about this in addition to saying, of course, that it is about legitimizing the authoritarian regime of Ankara. I would like to mention one problem and perhaps it has something to do with the question, but I do not know who to ask it because I wanted to put it to the Prime Minister, he is the one who rides these European Councils. And I wanted to ask him what will happen when the limit agreed with Turkey, i.e. 72,000 refugees to switch with the system one for one, so what will be when this limit is exhausted. What's next? Diplomatic speech - the diplomats say that the plans to date will be re-evaluated. Does anyone understand that? What's gonna happen instead? So, Turkey - rethinking the plan means that Turkey will again call all those smugglers into arms, which will open all the floodgates again? Or what is the European Union's plan? That's what I want to ask the Prime Minister, and I'm probably gonna have to find some other space. I would also like to know what happens when European diplomats talk about the voluntary resettlement programme. We know it doesn't work. We ourselves know that no European country or those quotas to which it has so voluntarily applied do so. Some people, or most refugees, want to go to Germany, someone doesn't want to go anywhere, tops to Sweden. So what is the position of the Czech Government in this, and how is it going to address it? How does it intend to prevent at the next European Council the fact that these quotas do nothing at all? How is he going to get them canceled and stop talking about this completely pointless subject? I have prepared a motion for a resolution for the Citizen's Democratic Party. As I say, we want to respond to new developments by this resolution. We do not intend to go backwards, because if we have in the resolution of February 2015 that we do not want mandatory quotas, if we have Schengen protection there, if we have humanitarian aid outside the European Union, I do not see the need for it again in every resolution. After all, the same thing we adopted in February 2015 was adopted in October 2015. Therefore, I consider the resolution that we have made available here in some way within the entire Chamber of Deputies to be completely inadequate and empty, so that everyone can sign under them, but de facto no mandate for the government to give, and there is no incentive for discussion or exchange of views of such a resolution - neither between us nor in relation to the public. My amendments will be four. I will present them now, although then I think I will be able to refer to them in the general debate. Or do I have to read them again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u27	My colleague, I'm sure you can only refer to them in detail if you read them now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u28	At least I'll read them so you can think about them, because before we vote, then some might think they're fast-read and haven't had a chance to compare what they want and what they don't want to support. The first amendment tabled by the Civic Democratic Party Club will read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the agreement of the Heads of Government of the Member States of the European Union on the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016. Two. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to be the primary task of the governments of individual Member States of the European Union. Three. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the position of the Heads of Government of the EU Member States, who are effectively transferred responsibility for the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to Turkey. Four. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that states that are unable to fulfil their obligations and protect the external borders of the Schengen area are to leave this area because they threaten the security of citizens of all the countries of the European Union. I understand that you will not like some of the proposals, you will find them too sharp, maybe radical, but that is what these ideas are supposed to be about to go on. Talking about what we talked about a year ago doesn't make any sense at all. Repeating articles that have been printed five times doesn't make any sense. That is why we come up with this attitude, which brings some new perspective on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u29	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. We continue with the factual remark of Pavel Kováčik, then Milan Urban. In the meantime, I will read Mr Karel Fiedler's apology, who apologizes until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u30	Thank you for the floor. Only very briefly through Mr President to Mrs Němcová. Yes, I confirm what she said about the resolution, with the fact that, of course, she's right. We voted for it, too. It was perhaps more than half a year after we began to draw attention to the problems ourselves. There's no way we wanted to draw a line that we're the only ones who know how to deal with things. We were just pointing out the parts of the problem that, according to our court, were essential. And even today, it turns out that they really were, and are essential, to continue. I apologize to those of you who had a problem with my voice and his strength in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u31	Thank you. Now, my colleague, Milan Urban, has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am slowly losing hope, even though I supported the House of Deputies' negotiations on this subject, that this makes some sense. And I'll tell you why. Look, after those Parisian assassinations, the Brit learned French Marseillaisa to show some solidarity and perhaps find a common solution. Well, what do I hear here so far? On the one hand, and on the opposition's side, in my opinion, I see an inability to exceed at least a bit of the internal political struggle between the opposition and the ruling coalition. It seems to me that there is just some Czech internal political battle going on here as well. I think that if this debate should have meaning, then it only makes sense that, perhaps as the Francouz and the Brit, we should try to resolve the problem with some solidarity and reason and perspective. So far, all we have to say is: we reject American capitalism, we reject what the Czech government says, we reject everything that anyone has ever proposed. So let's go the other way: we propose. Say "we're suggesting what to do" here. Then it may be symbolically similar to the fact that the Brit learned Marseillaisa and the Francouz said: we did not know that they really liked us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u33	Thank you for keeping time. That's two minutes away from social democracy. Now, Mr Martin Lank, then Mr Soukup, then Mrs Langšádlová. This is the order of entries according to new applications and old ones, so I combine them. The way I came to this was that, after my colleague Dobešová, I was erasing my colleague Soukup - I apologize for that, but he volunteered, and I didn't have a comment on how exhausted the club is due to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm noticing, that's why I'm measuring your times. I think the ODS club has more than five minutes left, so it's all right. I'm sure he'll be able to get to his colleague, Černochová. Those are my notes I have here. I'm gonna measure everyone fair and square, which is why I'm giving you the clock. With a factual remark, Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u34	Thank you for the floor. That'll be 15 seconds. To his predecessor, Mr Urban: Mr. Colleague, Dawn proposes here. We've always suggested a solution. We've always suggested a solution, but you've always rejected it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u35	Thank you. We are now continuing - Mr Martin Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of today's tragic events in Brussels, it is perhaps more than clear that the agreement between Turkey and the European Union poses a significant security threat to the Czech Republic. The visa waiver for Turkish citizens travelling to the Union by the end of June 2016 and the recovery of Turkey's accession to the European Union are an essential part of this Agreement. Let us be perfectly clear about what this will mean for the Czech Republic. Turkey is now, not only in terms of security, a completely unreliable country and visa contact, preventing these security problems from spilling over to Europe. Its cancellation can trigger the influx of dangerous persons from Turkey to us. Let us face it, visa-free travel for Turkey means visa-free travel for Islamic State fighters and Islamic radicals. Today, these attackers must look for difficult ways to get to Europe. They appear to be refugees, intricately recruiting members among immigrants in Europe, which makes terrorist attacks much more difficult. Turkey is unable to control the illegal crossing of the border from Syria, where the Islamic State operates. His warriors will thus have extremely simplified access to us. No less dangerous is the expansion of trafficking in drugs, weapons, and people. It is already difficult for Europe to resist these problems today, and now it is to open the door wide. Of course, this would also spread hostile Islamist culture to us. There would also be various financial money channels for wannabe humanitarian, ideological and multicultural purposes. Religious-ideological influences would strengthen the tendency to Islamize with an increasing number of Muslims. There are many Islamic communities in Europe where only a small impulse to radicalize is sufficient. Health risks are also not negligible. No one will guarantee that there will be no spread of dangerous diseases. I would admit that visa-free relations with Turkey will be the subject of a debate by security experts that will be dealt with by the authorities responsible for the security of the Czech Republic. And on the basis of this discussion, I hope it will then be rejected as too risky. But what really happened? Prime Minister Sobotka denied visa-free relations with Turkey without going through any consultation in advance, or at least one that we would have any idea of. Neither the Security Committee nor the Defence Committee have been informed of this intention. The Committee on European Affairs even approved - on a proposal from Dawn - a resolution that the Prime Minister should refuse visa-free relations with Turkey. But he ignored it. In doing so, the resolution of this committee, as we all know, has the weight of the resolution of the entire House. Worse, the security of the Czech Republic seems to have been exchanged by the Prime Minister for loyalty to Mrs Merkelová and Mr Juncker. As if it wasn't enough that, according to an internal document prepared by the French police after the November terrorist attacks in Paris for the Interior Minister in Europe, 90 suicide bombers could be prepared. According to the New York Times, the document also states that somewhere in Europe there is probably an undiscovered bomb factory, and there are clearly well-trained experts working there. This is probably not enough for European leaders and they want to increase security risks. Ten years ago, current Chancellor Merkelová said that the integration of the Turek in Germany had failed completely after 30 years of integration. And today, with its cronies in Brussels, it opens the way to the Union for millions of other Turek and other ethnically and religiously aliens, and let us be calmly politically incorrect, mostly non-integrable populations of Africa and its surroundings. Europe is now in the position of a fortress whose gates have been opened to the enemy. I therefore ask you to support the proposals of Dawn, which reject the agreement made by Prime Minister Sobotka against our interest with Turkey. We reject the introduction of visa-free travel and the opening of the process of Turkey's accession to the European Union. I am quite excited here today to see my colleagues and colleagues calling for border control, calling for increased security, virtually across the spectrum. Yes, lucky. But I have to say, my amazement is positive because I finally think there's been some kind of epiphany. So, of course, I welcome that. But it's a shame you didn't act like that when Dawn passed the necessary laws and resolutions, and you swept them off the table. Okay, what's done is done. I now believe that you will support our motions for resolution. And if they don't, we'll be happy to give you a chance to think about it overnight, and if they don't pass, we'll re-submit them tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u37	I thank Mr Lank for his speech. We can now move forward, with Mr Zdeněk Soukup's speech, and colleague Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u38	I got lost on the waiting list, but I got back there. Thank you, Mr President, and I apologize to Mrs Langšádlová. I'll try to cut my performance as short as I can. I'm gonna turn to the Prime Minister who's not here, but I hope he reads a stenograph record. Dear Prime Minister, you informed the Committee on European Affairs about your negotiating mandate before leaving for the last summit in Brussels. As I recall, there wasn't a word about what you came back with. I'm not gonna repeat everything we agreed on there. I just want to stress that we have voted specifically in favour of this as members of the Committee on European Affairs, so that we do not in any way accept the abolition of the visa requirement. I'm cutting it short now. In the television record of the summit that I watched, and I am very sensitive to it as a former television worker, I have long been a Evropan, stressing a Evropan out of reason, and I have not experienced such a feeling of humiliation. The Turkish president is teaching us a lesson in ethics from the TV screen. He says it is he who defends and promotes European values, such as humanity, solidarity and empathy. That these values are not known in relation to the Kurd, for example! The Republic of Cyprus, a Member State of the Union, has experience with the empathy of a supposedly secular Turkey. His troops are occupying part of Cyprus's territory. And as we know, the Turek are driving all Christians out of him. I will mention some of the remarks made by the European Democrat - Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In 2008, during his visit to Cologne, he made it clear that he considered Turkish migrants to be his Islamist away team in the European Union, so - in turn, according to his words - a seven-million Turkish minority in Germany must not integrate. I quote literally: I understand your sensibility, which you are showing towards assimilation, very well. No one can expect you to submit to assimilation. For assimilation is a crime against humanity. And he added it to the known: Minarets are our rockets, mosques our barracks and our believers our armies. And how will he say goodbye to our democracy? This is a less famous statement: Democracy is like a tram that takes us where we want to go and then we get off. And in order to make a more comprehensive picture of our potential partner's thinking, one more statement, this time it is no longer so different: Islam and Islamism. There's only one Islam. Anyone who says otherwise insults Islam. Prime Minister, absent, do you really believe such a partner? Mr. Prime Minister, I recently reviewed a brochure on government achievements under your leadership. As a coalition MP, I appreciate it, and I'm glad. Now, of course, you are faced with a problem of form and kind that none of your political predecessors have ever dealt with. It's comparable to the dilemma Edvard Beneš and Emil Hácha went through. Migration in Islamist robe. It could be a direct threat to our lifestyle, our culture and statehood. Finally, it is a threat to European civilization at all. Today we must rely on ourselves, as appointed statesmen did, after all. Or didn't. We must have a clear plan. The Czech Republic needs its migration policy, which will protect its interests in the long term. Do we have her? Are we working on it? We cannot rely on the European majority according to logic: we will join the strong and nothing will happen to us. Or: if Germany, France and others approve, we have nothing to fear. Everyone today, as you can see, defends their interests. Prime Minister, can you copy your side of Robert Fic? I must confess, I don't envy that decision. However, it is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u39	I thank Mr Soukup. And now Mrs Langšádlová is performing, except for a minute for Mr Schwarzenberg's ex-President, she has 19 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u40	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, Minister, I would very much like to clarify the procedure first, because I am concerned that it is not quite clear here what rules for the length of speaking have been approved. So I'd like to ask you once I've arranged for us to pursue this process. Colleague Urban here said that we should cross the border between the coalition and the opposition. I also think that the situation is too serious for us to brag about who came up with the first resolution, who was right earlier, and we should really try to cross those borders. That is why I have been here for several times, although opposition politicians, with the fact that we continue to support our government on fundamental issues. Yes, we have reservations. We have reservations, and our reservation today is primarily aimed at the fact that the Czech Republic and its representatives have supported the abolition of visa-free travel with Turkey. That's right. However, I still believe in a European solution, I do not know any other solution, and I believe that this European solution, which will enable the Czech Republic to remain a solid part of the European Union in Europe, will prevail. I wish, and I care, that everything the Prime Minister has said at the outset be fulfilled, that agreements be fulfilled and that Europe can cope with the migration crisis. There's no doubt about it. I understand why the funds have been provided to Turkey. I understand that there are nearly 3 million refugees in Turkey today. Only 360,000 children were integrated into Turkish schools. There is a serious humanitarian situation in Turkey. I would like to appreciate, unlike my colleagues, what the agreement brings. And I believe those who want to know know know that. After all, the agreement brings two important things. It is the cessation of organised crime, and it is a control and an opportunity to test anyone who comes to Europe. That's not enough. I know that our Homeland Ministry and the security authorities can check out anyone who's coming. I have also seen this in the case of Christian refugees from Iraq. We can verify whether or not the one coming is a security risk. But we must also urge our partners in Europe to examine very carefully everyone they allow into our common Schengen system. I believe that there must also be a re-examination of all those who have come to Europe in recent months. But do we want Europe to be dependent on Turkey for a long time? I can't imagine. That is why it is extremely important that a common coastal and border guard with sufficient capacity, with sufficient capabilities, is really built. After all, we all know that by the time the Balkan route is closed, and today it is closing, the flows of migrants can go another way. And we have to be prepared for that. We really must have the capacity to ensure that, if they go further north or south, Europe can control the common Schengen border itself in the long run. That's important. And it is true that those who do not comply with the rules and violations are a major problem in recent months cannot be part of the Schengen area. There's no doubt about it either. What I lack in the solutions that have been raised here, even in those documents, the Council conclusions, is the situation in Greece. The situation in Greece is really critical, and although I understand that part of the refugees will be returning to Turkey gradually, I think that the European Union and European countries should also give sufficient capacity to have a viable humanitarian situation there, because despite all the risks and all that we are experiencing today, many of those on the road are really people who are fleeing from the war, they are families with children. If we don't see this, if we don't see that they're human, then we have completely lost our relationship to the values on which Europe, our civilizations stand. Please, let's not give them up. We need to protect security. It's on. Yes, we must protect the security, especially the security of the citizens of Europe. Yes, it's true. But let's not forget to see people in people. I would like to appeal very much to remain a solid part of the European Union. I would like to urge us to communicate well with our partners so that we can explain our attitudes in time so that we do not separate ourselves, because one day we could stand on a different line and perhaps our children would not forgive us. But we must not just remain a solid part of the European Union. I believe that we must also be aware of the importance of the Euro-Atlantic link. I do not share the view that has been heard here from some colleagues on the left. I do not share the view of the ideological perception of events of recent years. Yes, we and our allies make mistakes. We have also made mistakes in tackling the migration crisis. But we still have to fight for our common interests, and we must not waste our chances for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u41	Thank you, colleague Langšádlová. We will continue with Mrs Hnyková's factual remark. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis. Look behind us. There's only one minister sitting here. Where's the Prime Minister? [[In an elevated voice. Screams from the left: Don't shout.]] Where is he? He's supposed to be sitting here! [[Again with the raised voice.]] We're discussing such a serious subject and it's not here! [[Voices from the O.R.]] Where's he gone? For such a long time we have waited for this point to reach the House program. [[I'm still raising my voice.]] Once again, the Prime Minister is not here! He represents our citizens and he's not here! [[Challenges from the hall to lower the voice: Shh.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna keep my voice down. If the Prime Minister does not arrive, the Dawn MP will request a break until he returns here. Thank you and I apologize for raising your voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u43	That was a minute from Dawn. It's been a condition so far. [[Mrs Hnyk is responding from her position.]] So this was a procedural proposal that we will be voting on without debate in order for the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. That's all I can do for my colleagues. I'm gonna run the gong so everyone knows we're gonna vote. Once the number of applicants has settled - we are already over 67, I will vote. We will vote on the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber of Deputies or a break will be announced. I've started the 343 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Okay, I'm declaring vote number 343 misguided. [[Dissenting votes from Members of the Dawn.]] I was coming out of my colleague's words. I don't want to twist them, but that's what you said. Please, my colleague, one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u44	Mr President, I will specify. I would like to interrupt the meeting until the Prime Minister's arrival. And I'd like to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u45	That's what I said. [[Dissenting voices from the left.]] No, it's a voteable motion to interrupt into a certain circumstance, which means time, factual and so on. I will not quote the paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, but it is so. The motion shall be put to the vote. The number 343 vote was misguided. We will decide to suspend this item until the Prime Minister arrives in the vote order number 344. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 344 of the present 107 for 50, against 44. The motion was not accepted. [[18.00 hours]] Let's keep going, then. I'll read the apologies first, and then I'll give the floor to my colleague Černochová. Mr Šarapatka apologizes until the end of the day, and Mrs Válková is also from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. So now Mrs Jana Černochová has the floor. My colleague Fiedler is excused, Mr Černoch has dismissed his colleague, so please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have been listening here since afternoon, just like you, to the debate, and I think that I will probably agree with most of you that this resolution, which may have been proposed by KDU-ČSL colleagues in good faith and that some other parties have joined them, so after the events in Brussels today, it is completely passé. What are we talking about here, coworkers and colleagues, two and a half hours? We're no longer in trouble today to protect the external border. We're already in trouble today that we should protect the internal border. How far is Brussels from Prague by car? Seven hours, driver? Seven eight? Some five. I really think that if our Chamber of Deputies is to adopt a resolution today, some relevant position for representatives of the Government of the Czech Republic, for the Minister of the Interior, this resolution really should be much tougher. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister of Interior Chovanec assures the citizens of the Czech Republic that he is flattering them, that, of course, he also calls them through the Minister of Defence - who is not here - the Army of the Czech Republic. I do not disregard, I am not joking on this subject, but indeed, there is some first stage of terrorist attack here, and we are talking about whether we will continue to strongly reject the introduction of a mandatory refugee redistribution mechanism here, and we are expressing in the proposal by my colleague Mihula concern about the fact that the European Union, in cooperation with other countries, has failed to coordinate migration flows effectively. Don't you think it's really out of order? After learning that 200 people are seriously injured, over 30 people are dead. I would really like to ask whether it would be possible for us to move this debate from those academic take-off phrases to something really concrete, something really tangible. And I really think, and I would like to invite you on this behalf and on behalf of Mr Kádner, President of the Defence Committee, with whom we are working next week on border surveillance, modern technologies that are linked to border surveillance, so it is not just human potential, it is simply different things that we know from abroad, so that we start to look at this topic and try to propose something here again that is really just a phrase and a slap in the water. Moreover, on some points the resolution contradicts it, please nicely. They contradict you for refusing to introduce quotas, on the other hand, for every Syrian citizen returned to Turkey under an agreement of the European Union, one Syrian citizen is to be relocated directly from Turkey. After all, there are two provisions against each other, colleagues and colleagues. I really do not want to touch anybody right now, but please support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Miroslava Němcová on behalf of the Civic Democratic Party Club, where I really think that there is a very strong sentence which concerns, on the one hand, the rejection of the agreement of the Heads of Government of the Member States of the European Union, which concerns the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens, and a very strong resolution, the motion for a resolution, is also there in the sense that the external Schengen borders are intended to protect those countries which actually share the border with those states. Not us. We are in a phase where each country has to take care of protecting its own borders. So let me conclude by asking you to support Mrs Němcová and the Civil Democratic Party's resolution, because I think that it is responding to the tragic event of this day, and not to the resolution that has been drawn up by colleagues in good faith here, but that was an expensive time ago. And that time... You know, that time was different before Paris, or it was different before Paris, and it's different after Paris. And she was different before Brussels, and I think we can agree that after today's tragic events, we were in that war, or that war moved a little closer to us. And I think we should accept this as the Chamber of Deputies. And try to express, as far as possible, thanks to members of the armed and security forces for being there. I was driving through Prague this morning, so I saw that the Minister was able to put several hundred policemen on the streets in the early hours of the morning, and I am glad and I think that this is the only possible way for us to calm the situation and assure the public that the Czech Republic will be prepared for these things within the limits of our options. I just can't forgive myself for a little poke. You know that I spoke here a few weeks ago in favour of arms holders, that I criticised here the proposal of the European Commission, which leads to the disarmament of a part of the population, and you have also noticed that Kalashnikov was found in Brussels at that airport. I assume this Kalashnikov wasn't legal. So here I would appeal again to the Minister and to all colleagues, so that when we deal with the arms bill, which awaits us on Thursday, and we will have it at the House plenary, so that we do not really approach it in Brussels, that we do not really disarm our population, reduce the opportunity to acquire it to our residents, and not just to our citizens, the people of the European Union, the weapons, and not to make it difficult for people who hold those weapons legally, in favour of those who hold them illegally and always provide them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u47	Thank you, Vice-President Černochová. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u48	Thank you for the floor. Just for a very short time. I don't know if I got that right, maybe I did, and I'm glad those things are going back to the committee where the defence and security issues are to be discussed. My colleague mentioned the Defence Committee. The twenty-fourth is the Security Committee, so, dear colleagues, you who care, come to the committee, we can have some fun. And maybe to talk about some other kind of resolution, because that resolution, as it is set here today, is basically something that I have a problem with, and I do not agree to adopt any resolutions here today at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u49	I thank my colleague Chalupa. Mr Fiedler is not present and Mr Kádner is instead of Mr Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u50	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad to hear a single note here today, and I believe that today, when we vote on the various suggestions that have fallen, we will be very successful and move forward. But since she's a repeat mother of wisdom, I'd like to repeat, or more or less, a few things for our club. My fellow Members from the MP's club have explained in detail why the agreement with Turkey is the total loss of Prime Minister Sobotka and also an unprecedented threat to our security. I'd like to pause over what we've been given for this huge price. [[18.10 hours]] We got a deal where we'll always pull the shorter end of the rope, and we'll always be very easy to blackmail. Rest assured, President Erdogan will give us the strength to feel. The deal hasn't worked since day one, as agreed. On Sundays and Mondays alone, 1,662 people arrived on the Aegean islands, which is even more than the daily average of the previous weeks. Yesterday, nearly 2,000 refugees were to be moved to the Atai port from the islands. [[Athens?]] Overall, there should be nearly 6.5 thousand immigrants in Athens alone alone. Global numbers are even worse. Since the beginning of the year, 150,000 illegal immigrants have arrived from Turkey to Greece. In all of Greece, there are now over 50,000, of which almost 29,000 are in northern Greece, hoping to open the Macedonian border. Another tens of thousands are around the capital and the Aegean islands. The other 100 grand is unknown where. New immigrants are growing every day and the situation is not improving. Can you explain to me how this agreement can work when Greek Prime Minister Tsipras repeatedly says that at least 4,000 trained workers will have to be deployed to process the necessary administrative tasks? More than half of them are supposed to send EU countries to Greece, and there is no one in Greece at all. Even if these officials are already admitted, they must first be trained, which will also take some time. In doing so, visa-free relations with Turkey should be introduced in three months. It is clear to me that because of the traditional Greek lack of consistency, the very bad Turkish-Greece relations and the overall unwillingness to deal with anything, the system cannot work within the summer. The signed agreement is thus on the table, which will be useless, but which since July obliges us to start visa-free travel. I also find it incredible that this agreement applies only to the Greek islands and does not apply to the Greek mainland, which is very easily accessible from the European part of Turkey. There will be no significant shift in migration routes. For visas with Turkey, we only moved our routes a few dozen kilometers. It is also clear that there is no way that the immigration crisis will end. Most security experts warn that migration routes will be adjusted to the maximum. But illegal immigration won't stop. According to German analysts, Germany will be flooded with illegal immigrants this year as well. Even if the agreement with Turkey was most effective, it would come to Germany between a million and two million immigrants this year. The agreement with Turkey does not address the conflict in Syria, which will continue. In addition to the Syřan, Afghánec, Pákistánec, and Afričan will also flow to Europe. The migrants will use routes across North Africa or the Caucasus to travel to the old continent and, unfortunately, everything will be the same. This is the main reason why the Czech border should be protected as soon as possible. The latest date is the date of visa-free travel with Turkey, which is due from July this year. We therefore propose that the House call on the Czech Government to protect our borders by July 2016 at the latest, together with the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u51	I thank Mr Kádner. Another duly registered member is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your ten plus ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that, as time passes, we can talk much more about the problem of mass migration, which means that both the time goes on and the problems that we opponents of migration point out at the beginning are gradually not to be overlooked and played out by speech about xenophobia. At the beginning of today's meeting, I asked you for a serious debate on the strategy of government reception of migrants, it is a vital matter, but the government coalition once again arrogantly rejected my proposal, although it decided to accept more than 3,000 illegal Islamic migrants to the Czech Republic against the will of citizens already in the first batch and permanently. Nowhere in the world certain types of minorities, such as Arab and African Muslims, have integrated into society with European values. Muslim street or neighborhood anywhere in Europe is a real risk, as I will subsequently document. This is the basic premise on which we should be based. Although I do know that many of you here in the hall see it differently at the beginning. In practice, this means that we should not help and allow the creation of Muslim migrant ghettos. Of course, the easiest solution is not to accept migrants. This is the only one proposed at the beginning in Parliament by our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, and those really needed are to be helped directly in their countries of origin or in the first safe country in their cultural territory, not to bring the problem to us in the Czech Republic. In this respect, I would appeal to Czech diplomacy to pressure Arab countries that are allies, i.e. super-rich Muslim countries, which should, first of all, stop raising civil wars, and instead of supporting terrorism, should actively help Muslim regions stabilise and, in places destroyed by them, contribute to the restoration of homes for local residents. Our diplomacy must also seek a single functional solution, i.e. the inexhaustible closure of European and Czech borders for illegal migrants, regardless of Turkey. Turkey itself is one of those who caused this problem, and instead of concessions, it must be forced to bear the consequences and costs of aggression against Syria and Kurdistan. I will never accept the fact that the government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement, with the support of TOP 09 and others, has decided to accept illegal and mass economic migrants to the Czech Republic, as these are irreversible steps against the will of most of our citizens, and they are steps that will make life in the future irreversibly worse both in terms of security and crime and in terms of social tensions. Although I will never accept it, let us at least discuss how to reduce the impending effects to the maximum. On the basis of the decision of the Government, the Czech Republic will accept over 3,000 illegal immigrants during the following year, so, first and foremost, the government needs to figure out where to place them. Prime Minister Sobotka and his government intend to house them primarily in Havířov and in Kostelec nad Orlicí. This is no solution, but visible madness. Not even the great Havířov can easily absorb thousands of migrants, let alone the tiny 6,000 - year - old town of Kostelec nad Orlicí. The illusion that incoming migrants are immediately integrated, employed, dissolved without problems in a majority society is an illusion, or rather a big lie. I draw attention to the fact that it is not only a problem in migrants, but there is a risk of increased nervousness and resistance from Czech citizens. At first, many in Germany welcomed, hosted, and tried to help them as much as possible. It was a short experience, and today there are not only demonstrations against migrants, but a growing number of attacks on hostels with migrants. The reason is quite clear. The crushing part of migrants will be very difficult to integrate in any way and it is almost impossible to employ them. Even if it were true, which we know is not that Arab doctors or engineers are flowing to us, then it is impossible for such a doctor to work in a Czech hospital because he simply does not speak the language in the first place. The question is, how much will the hospital tolerate the fact that a Muslim will start praying in the middle of the operation, or a Muslim nurse or doctor refuses to postpone a nicab or hijab. Today, we all know that the vast majority of migrants are neither doctors nor professors, but they are illiterate men who do not control Czech and mostly any other European language. This was one of the many great lies of the Czech media and politicians who were lying to the public together. On the contrary, migrants often spent their childhood with Kalashnikov, and if they had a teddy bear, they learned to cut his head off. None of them have European work habits. I mean, the ability to work eight and a half hours a day in a factory somewhere. Allow a few actual facts. A survey of the political magazine Report Mainz showed that over a million people arrived in Germany last year, but only about two hundred of them got the job. The survey was carried out for thirty of the most important companies, e.g. RWE or Adidas. Only the developer Bonavia has offered permanent work to refugees. She refused to reveal how many of 200 people were involved, but they were mainly Syřan and Afričan for manual labor. Although the largest telecommunications company in Germany, Deutsche Telecom received 350 applications for an internship of 100 people, only 35 were selected from migrants, the analysis continues. The company requires a college education. [[18.20 hours]] Four dozen migrants were trained at Daimler, but now only two continue. Almost all Syřan received temporary asylum, which gives them the opportunity to participate in the labour market almost immediately. If this survey seems surprising to anyone, then it is a misfortune to our political correctness, because the data collected in the long term is clear. Berlin's senator and economist Thilo Sarrazin took a hard time comparing and analyzing hundreds of German and European statistics. Let me quote his conclusions. In all countries with a significant share of Muslim migrants, the same phenomena can be observed - below-average integration into the labour market, above-average dependence on social transfers, below-average participation in education, above-average religiousity with a growing tendency towards traditional or fundamentalist Islam, spatial segregation with a tendency to form a parallel society - which translated into Czech means creating Muslim neighborhoods where only local Muslim rules apply. Furthermore, the Muslim community is characterised by above-average crime, ranging from simple violent street crime to participation in terrorist activities. Everywhere it was assumed that migrants would gradually accept European values, such as democracy, cultural and religious freedom, and within one or two generations the differences between migrants and Evropan would disappear. But the opposite happened. Tendences to cultural and regional segregation between immigrant Muslim migrants and their descendants have grown even stronger. In other words, the hope that Muslim migrants are integrating over time has not been fulfilled. The opposite is happening. This must be borne in mind in every debate on migration and the settlement of Muslim migrants in Europe. The parallel does not apply that Evropan also migrated and it was positive for host countries. When our emigrants headed to Austria, Holland, or the United States, it was the movement of people from the same European culture that brought nowhere a parallel world, parallel and hostile ideology. When I decided to stay in my mother's country, aside from the fact that I have been living in the Czech Republic since I was five years old, with the fact that I belong to this country in value, whether I am taught to earn a living by working and looking forward to Christmas or Easter, but also by honoring human rights and laws and democracy is the highest base for me for social establishment. In summary, the problem is not a person who comes individually to build on European value roots, but an insurmountable problem is one who cannot respect these roots for religious reasons, for example, or even come to rip them out. Interestingly, the number of migrants is growing to us in the Czech Republic from the European Union and security is the main reason. Young people from Western Europe are fleeing us from Muslim aggression. žid also flee from all over Europe to Israel, even in the largest number since World War II, again because of Muslim aggression. It is not true, therefore, that we also have some bad coexistence with migrants in the Czech Republic. Over 400,000 foreigners live in our Republic, and a large part of them are residents of other EU countries. In our country, there are even the most percentage of them within Visegrad, twice as many foreigners per capita as in Slovakia or Hungary, and 40 times as many per capita as in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a second migration wave, but different from most of you. It is a migration wave from the European Union to us or out of the Union to safer countries. A migratory wave of European Union citizens. From this point of view, we in the Czech Republic are still a relatively safe country in Europe, and we have a chance to remain one. All we have to do is not allow the ghetto of unadaptable migrants from Africa or Muslim countries to begin to form in our country. The tool for this is not to accept any such immigrants. Unfortunately, this is in direct conflict with the current Czech government of ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL. There is no Western country that can successfully withstand Muslim migration. And let us not be illusioned that Mr. Dienstbier or Sobotka have a miraculous recipe for the Czech Republic. Without a doubt, we would have found models to give migrants a meaningful life span. Syria is a completely broken country and it will need thousands of people to rebuild houses, roads, water pipes, sewers and so on. In the case of Syřan, it would make sense for immigrants to teach crafts and work skills and to send them back immediately to build their homeland. Not any migrants permanently settle in the territory of the Czech Republic, as this government does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u53	Sorry to interrupt, colleague. Ten minutes have passed. If you want a second proper application, please, the last ten minutes of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u54	Then I'll keep going. A similar need, i.e. having more qualified residents, is, I think, most of the countries from which migrants come. I think it's a good idea that, for example, a Czech company that gets an infrastructure construction contract in Syria or Iraq will train workers here who can be the basis for working in a given country. I mean, not to raise another layer of people addicted to dosage here, but to qualify workers who will have a good chance of helping themselves at home, i.e. to combine the drawing of money with the obligation to really learn to work and the obligation to work and then to go back home. This is a solution that could be beneficial for migrants and for the Czech Republic. Furthermore, it is necessary to deal with the accommodation of more migrants, and I emphasise once again that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, is promoting zero tolerance for illegal immigration here alone and still alone in Parliament. However, we come from the fact that the government has already decided against the will of citizens to accept the first thousand African Arab migrants. And, as I have already said, in a written interview, Prime Minister Sobotka replied in writing that this first batch will be accepted by over 3,000 illegal African Arab migrants to the facility in Kostelec nad Orlicí and Havířov. And, as I have already said, the citizens are rebelling, and today the citizens of Kostelec nad Orlicí and Havíř's petition against the placement of immigrants in their cities have published a petition for a local referendum. They're desperate citizens, and they're trying to defend the evil of this government, which didn't even ask them if they wanted the immigrants there. It is unacceptable for the larger mass of migrants to dominate the streets of cities as the government is now planning. There's not a lot of good solutions here. For example, former military retreats, such as abandoned barracks outside cities, municipalities, could be taken into account for housing more migrants. Not cities like the government planned this year in Benešov and Rabbit. Outside cities, for example, there have been soviet soldiers in the past, and the fact is that they have been less visible than American troops in Western Europe. And once again, I stress that we in our SPD movement are against any migration. We stand for zero tolerance of illegal migration to the Czech Republic, while also promoting the ban on Islamic Sharia and jihad law on the territory of the Czech Republic. But you've already rejected us here in the House last year. But just as it is true of the occupiers, so does the migrants. The best illegal migrant is no migrant. I would therefore like to conclude by proposing a House resolution which would commit the Government to thoroughly analyse and prepare the solution. "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to respect two basic principles in the matter of migrants in the Czech Republic at the same time: firstly, it will not allow the creation of Muslim ghettos and larger immigrant communities, while secondly creating and implementing a plan for the repatriation of all migrants back outside the Czech Republic, both those adopted on the basis of European redistribution mechanisms, namely quotas and those adopted by the government on its will." So, on this resolution, I would like to propose that the House vote at the end of this point, and I hope that you will support it, although I know that you will not really support it, of course, because your government has already decided to accept migrants against the will of the citizens. And despite what happened in Brussels today, I asked Prime Minister Sobotka here today whether the government is continuing to accept these illegal migrants who have illegally penetrated the territory of the European Union and are currently being allocated in Greece and Italy, and I have not received the answer because the Prime Minister of this government of the ČSSD, the Yes movement and the KDU-ČSL obviously has nothing to say because he cannot refuse it. They just agreed, and the reasons are completely unknown to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u55	Thank you. I beg you, Mr President, to give the rapporteur the motion for a resolution that you have tabled. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u56	Thank you. I can't use them far from here. Just a brief remark. I do not want to play smart, but when my previous speaker proposes a resolution in which he wants to oblige the government not to create a Muslim ghetto, and at the same time in his speech he recommended that we put them in barracks in military retreats, I feel that there is a certain unsolvable contradiction in these two recommendations. And now I don't know what to choose from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u57	Thank you. Mr. Andrle. [[Ambassador Andrle calling from the alley: Unfortunately, I can't get out because the scheduled limit has expired.]] You have one more minute of my notes. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening here, and I've learned a few lessons from this, a few observations. About a month ago, I interviewed the Prime Minister and asked him to try to secure the end of the embargo against Syria, which is about eleven embargoes loaded on Syria, and I also dealt with the Syrian ambassador here in Prague. He considers this embargo to be the greatest danger and the greatest cause of the Syřan' emigration to Europe. So the embargo and also the main cause - the end of the war in the Middle East. And that's probably all I could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u59	That's it. I thank Mr Andrle. Another duly applied for is Mrs Nina Nováková, who is not present. Mr Schwarzenberg, who is also absent. Mr Beznoska is not present either, Mrs Chalánková is not present, Mrs Lorencová... I'm just afraid the 20 minutes have been... [[Mrs Lorenc comes to the pitch and says off the microphone: 20 minutes would be too much for me.]] No, your party has been exhausted for 20 minutes. If you want to respect the agreement made by the presidents of the MPs. [[Messenger. I don't say much. I just need two or three minutes. Reactions in the O.R.]] That's up to you, I can't physically stop you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u60	Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, I want... [[Reactions from the O.R.]] What did I do? Now I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u61	There's an agreement between the Presidents... [[Member of the Commission Mihola and the messenger. Schwarz explains outside the microphone messenger. Lorence's nature of the deal.]] Now, the Member won't speak. Mr Karamazov is not present, Mrs Nytrová, he is not present, Mr Radim Fiala - he is not interested, President František Laudát, he is not present, and Mrs Miroslava Němcová is once again duly registered - neither. By doing so, we have exhausted all the duly signed up for the debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the rapporteur's final words. There's no interest in the final word. We will proceed to the debate in detail, in which I do not register any application. Only the rapporteur is claiming priority with the motions for resolutions, I suppose. Please, rapporteur. Then Mr Černoch, Mrs Němcová, Mr Holeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a motion for a resolution which I have already mentioned in my speech and which is under number 3978 in the system. Again, I recall that this proposal was prepared in cooperation with representatives of the KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, ANO and TOP 09 club, to which I thank you for your cooperation. The motion for a resolution is: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic First, appreciates the Czech Government's actions and proposals to address the migration crisis and evaluates them as responsible; Secondly, it continues to strongly reject the introduction of a mandatory redistributive mechanism for refugees; Thirdly, it expresses concern about the fact that the EU has failed to effectively control and significantly reduce migration flows in cooperation with other countries and therefore welcomes progress in negotiations with Turkey, in particular the Return Policy Agreement; Fourthly, it supports financial compensation for Turkey and asks the European Commission for control and consistent evaluation of the funds spent; Fifthly, it calls for the promotion of measures which take into account the condition of ensuring the security of EU countries and, at the same time, the creation of sufficient humanitarian capacity to help refugees outside the EU, e.g. in refugee camps in Jordan, etc.; Considers it essential, in particular, to ensure control of the external borders of the Schengen area and, therefore, it is essential that the common border and coast guard be established in a capacity capable of ensuring this objective; For the seventh time, it asks the Czech Government to analyse the current changes to the positions and follow-up of the EU Member States, especially Germany, on the issue of tackling the migration crisis; for the eighth time, it obliges the government of the Czech Republic to prepare all necessary measures to respond adequately to changes in migration routes with a direct impact on the Czech Republic; 9. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to enforce these principles in all negotiations at all levels and areas of its national and international competence. This is the resolution proposed by the four clubs. I don't know if they're gonna read the next resolution...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u63	The next resolution will probably be read by colleagues, and then I will ask you, Mr rapporteur, to lecture, because there is a proposal from Mr Kováčik to vote on the resolutions individually. So you should always present them. I think it will suffice if you have tabled the resolution in the general debate, so just sign up for it. prosit, now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u64	Thank you for the floor. We propose two resolutions for the Dawn Club. First: Chamber of Deputies First, it rejects the EU-Turkey agreement on the return of immigrants and considers it a threat to the security of the Czech Republic; Secondly, it rejects the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey; Thirdly, it rejects the recovery of Turkey's accession process to the EU; Fourthly, it rejects the introduction of a one-on-one system on the outpost of immigrants between the EU and Turkey; Fifthly, he refuses to pay money to Turkey on the basis of this agreement from the Czech state budget. Second resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to First, it immediately stopped receiving illegal immigrants on the basis of immigration quotas; Secondly, it has drawn up a referendum on immigration quotas; Third, it introduced the protection of the Czech borders no later than July 2016 in connection with the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey; Fourthly, it prepared a bill that would outlaw political radical Islam. Thank you, with these points we are willing to vote separately if it is the will to vote points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u65	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Another duly signed up is Mrs Němcová, followed by Mr Okamura. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u66	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned our resolution, namely the resolution proposed by the ODS, in the general debate. I also presented them in writing to the rapporteur. If there was no objection, I wouldn't read them again. Even if it is not implemented in the system, I do not know if I am obliged to read it under the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u67	If you do not have them in the system, I am afraid you must read them in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u68	Please allow me to ask for your patience. It is not a long resolution. Here's what we're proposing: First: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, which concerns the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016. Second: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to be the primary task of the governments of the individual Member States of the European Union. Third: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the position of the Heads of Government of the EU Member States, who are effectively transferred responsibility for the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to Turkey. Fourthly, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that states that are unable to fulfil their obligations and protect the external borders of the Schengen area are to leave this area because they threaten the security of citizens of all the countries of the European Union. That is our resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u69	Thank you. Mr Okamura is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u70	I would therefore like to read the resolution for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, which the Chamber of Deputies would vote on. The Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to respect two basic principles in the matter of migrants in the Czech Republic at the same time: Firstly, it will establish and implement a plan for the repatriation of all migrants back outside the territory of the Czech Republic, both those adopted on the basis of the European redistribution mechanisms of the quota and those adopted or accepted by the government for its will. Second, they will not allow the creation of any Muslim ghettos and immigrant communities in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u71	Thank you, Mr Okamur. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask the rapporteur's final words. [[He's not interested.]] Not interested. We will proceed - I will ask the rapporteur to present the proposals for individual resolutions, and I will put them to an individual vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u72	I would suggest, in the course of the procedure, that we first vote the resolutions tabled by KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, ANO and TOP 09, which are in the system under number 3978 and which I have loaded here. We would then vote on the ODS proposals and on the third time on the Úsvit proposals. And yet here were the suggestions of my colleague Okamura - and I don't have the paper with it. So that would be four then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u73	I will ask my colleague Okamura not to interrupt the negotiations in order to make a motion for a resolution. [[Mr Okamura bears the necessary document.]] Please, I ask - does anyone have any objections to this procedure? [[Member Pilný reporting.]] Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u74	Thank you for the floor. I just - here was the proposal for the first resolution to be voted on after the points. So I'm joining him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u75	No, I'm sure. We have now only talked about the order of these resolutions, but every resolution will be voted on after the points that President Kováčik has requested. Does anyone have a problem with the order? Is it necessary to vote on the order of those resolutions as the rapporteur has put it? It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I ask that the rapporteur always present a single item of the proposal and then put it to a vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u76	So we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, YES and TOP 09. First item: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic appreciates the previous steps and proposals of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the issue of the migration crisis and evaluates them as responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u77	There. There's a request for everyone to check out. I hereby remove you all. I beg you to sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 345, registered 149 Members and Members, for 62, against 53. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u78	Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies continues to strongly reject the introduction of a mandatory redistributive mechanism for refugees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u79	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 346, registered 150 Members and Members, for 149, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u80	The Chamber of Deputies expresses concern about the fact that the European Union, in cooperation with other countries, has failed to effectively control and significantly reduce migration flows and therefore welcomes progress in negotiations with Turkey, in particular the return policy agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u81	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote number 347, is 149 Members and Members, for 62, against 56. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u82	The Chamber of Deputies supports financial compensation for Turkey and asks the European Commission to check and evaluate the funds spent consistently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u83	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 348, 148 Members of Parliament, for 57, against 48. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u84	The Chamber of Deputies calls for enforcement of measures which will take into account the condition of ensuring the security of the European Union countries and, at the same time, the creation of sufficient humanitarian capacity to assist refugees outside the European Union, e.g. in refugee camps in Jordan, et cetera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u85	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 349 vote, 152 Members and Members registered, for 130, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u86	The Chamber of Deputies considers it essential to ensure, above all, that the external borders of the Schengen area are checked and, therefore, it is essential that the common border and coast guard be established in a capacity capable of ensuring this objective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u87	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 350, 152 Members of Parliament are registered, for 127, against 21. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u88	The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to analyse the current changes to the positions and follow-up of the Member States of the European Union, particularly Germany, on the issue of tackling the migration crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u89	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 351, with 151 Members registered, for 90, against 18. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u90	The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare all necessary measures to respond adequately in the event of changes in migration routes with a direct impact on the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u91	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 352 vote, 152 Members and Members, for 151, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u92	The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to enforce these principles in all negotiations at all levels and areas of its national and international competence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u93	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 353 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, 99 against 3. The motion was accepted. I'm asking my colleagues to stop having fun. Then they might know what they're voting for. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u94	I didn't have fun, but I didn't understand the meaning of the last resolution, because I think it was supposed to be a colon and something listed. So, Prime Minister, if you're the author or co-author, try explaining it to us. [[Miholo]] There was that government had to follow these principles, but nothing else. So what principles? I didn't get it at all. I wonder to those who supported it that they couldn't know what they were voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u95	rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u96	I am asked to explain, but I am not the only one - I am presenting it here or reading it, but I was talking about the cooperation of the four clubs here on this motion for a resolution, and here is a bit of a paradox. I have to say it exactly. This was the specific motion for a resolution of the YES movement. All the more surprised that the YES movement did not vote for it. [[Applause and laughter.]] It was inserted directly by the YES movement. Mr President, I do not know how to explain this when you are looking for a compromise and therefore it is presented by four clubs. We accepted the proposal that the YES movement wanted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u97	Mr President, please address me through. The President either wishes to object to the vote or must be satisfied with the rapporteur's reply. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, followed by President Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u98	As chairman of one of the parties who voted in favour. It's about the above principles. Those who voted for everyone voted for it. I understand you didn't vote for them, the above principles, because you didn't vote for most of them. I think it's understandable to everyone. Just a little comment. I do not understand what you are wondering, Mr rapporteur, that YES has put this forward, and it has not voted in favour. If you take their chairman's statement in the last week, it's just a know-how.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u99	Now with priority rights, President Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u100	Thank you for the floor. I'll take it a little differently. I think it would be really good to explain the resolution, because these are very serious resolutions. And to put forward a resolution on nothing, no one knows what we are voting on, so I consider it at least fair if the review was from someone who voted against, and it was specified here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u101	I'm sorry. There's no review of anyone who wants to vote differently or who doesn't have a voting device working, according to the Rules of Procedure. The resolution was adopted. I don't see why. I ask the rapporteur to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u102	Thank you. We will therefore move on to the motion for a resolution from the ODS. I'm also assuming separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u103	Yes. This is Mrs Němcová's proposal. Please present the various parts of the proposal and I will put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u104	First resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, which concerns the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u105	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 354 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 56. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u106	Second: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to be the primary task of the governments of the individual Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u107	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 355 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 105, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u108	Third: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects the position of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union, who are effectively responsible for protecting the external borders of the Schengen area to Turkey.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u109	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 356 vote. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 55, versus 33. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u110	Fourthly, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that states that are unable to fulfil their obligations and protect the external borders of the Schengen area are to leave this area because they threaten the security of citizens of all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u111	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 357 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 113, against 17. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u112	We would now move on to the vote on the motion from the Dawn movement. I'm just not sure if any of these points are voteable in case they've already passed the other points. Firstly, the Chamber of Deputies rejects the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on the return of immigrants and considers it a threat to the security of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u113	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 358 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 10, against 52. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u114	The Chamber of Deputies rejects the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. [[Inconvenient noise in the room.]] We already have this proposal actually...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u115	So I'm opening the vote on this - sorry, I declare this vote confusing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u116	Because he passed the first item in the ODS proposal concerning visa waiver.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u117	Yes. The Chamber of Deputies rejects the agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States concerning the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016. I consider the proposal identical, therefore unvoting. If you object to my procedure, please apply it. Thank you. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u118	Next point. The Chamber of Deputies rejects the revival of Turkey's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u119	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 360 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 27, against 7. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u120	The Chamber of Deputies rejects the introduction of a one-on-one system for the exchange of immigrants between the European Union and Turkey.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u121	I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 361. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 34, against 35. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u122	The Chamber of Deputies refuses to pay money to Turkey on the basis of this agreement from the Czech state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u123	Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 362, 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 42, against 32. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u124	The resolution of Dawn continues even further: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government - first of all - to immediately stop the reception of illegal immigrants on the basis of immigration quotas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u125	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 363 vote, 153 Members and Members, for 38, against 16. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u126	The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to hold a referendum on immigration quotas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u127	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 364, 154 Members and Members, for 24, against 52. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u128	The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to introduce the protection of the Czech borders no later than July 2016 in connection with the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u129	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 365 vote, 154 Members and Members, for 53, against 11. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u130	The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to prepare a bill that will outlaw political and radical Islam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u131	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote 366, registered is 153 Members and Members, for 14, against 15. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u132	We would now move on to the final motion for a resolution from our colleague Okamura, and this sounds - I hope that I am well aware of this: The Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to respect two basic principles on migrants in the Czech Republic at the same time: firstly, it will not allow the creation of any Muslim ghettos and immigrant communities in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u133	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 367, 154 Members and Members, for 12, for 37. The proposal was not accepted
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u134	Finally, the Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to establish and implement a plan for the repatriation of all migrants back outside the territory of the Czech Republic, both those adopted, both on the basis of European redistribution mechanisms, quotas and those adopted by the government on its will and will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u135	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 368, 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 9, against 57. The motion was not accepted. We therefore voted on all the resolutions proposed. I'm stating that everyone has been voted on, and I'm ending with point No. 202. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament, President Černoch is still reporting for the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, just before you start running home. I've been listening very carefully to this debate all afternoon. I must say that I consider it absolute hypocrisy, in the way you have opposed those proposals which I think are completely logical. Because it is very easy to make a statement to the newspaper, to fight in the breasts and lead your nation into battle, and then to stand up to it when you have the opportunity to express your opinion, quite officially.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-004-202.u137	That was Mr. Černoch fellow. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I am interrupting the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will proceed with item No. 153, criminal liability of legal persons, third reading. Have a good evening.
