ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u1	70. Government bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended /house print 723/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Health to take the floor and, under the authority of the Government, state this press. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications to perform the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist. I would like to start by stressing that the proposed draft law aims, above all, to stabilise and improve the system of specialisation education and education in the superstructure fields of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, as the current setting of the education system has been assessed as one of the reasons for leaving, in particular, fresh graduates to other countries where the conditions for participants in education are set more favorably, such as the shorter length of specialisation education. So now briefly to the content. With regard to the requirement of stabilization of education, the law will directly anchor the basic fields of specialisation education and education in these fields. Within the framework of the requirement to clearly define the status of a participant in specialisation education and thus to ensure legal certainty in relation to his rights and obligations during the course of training, he has been admitted to specifying the exercise of professional supervision and professional supervision of the participant in education. The requirements for the guarantor of the field and the trainer of the participant's education are also specified. The conditions for interruption and extension of the health profession and the related obligation for subsequent training are also being addressed. The conditions for counting the practice completed under the doctoral study programme are also changed. The purpose of the proposed change is to avoid situations criticized by labour inspectors, where a doctor in a doctoral study programme is employed only on a low part-time basis and is adequately rewarded, even though he spends a whole or a substantial part of the prescribed weekly working time in the workplace. In addition to the partial clarifications, further changes occur both within the accreditation process for the provision of specialisation education and in the process of implementing specialisation education itself, so as to reduce the administrative burden associated with these processes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in view of the above, you will support this bill in today's discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please the rapporteur to whom Mr David Kasal was designated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be the rapporteur for the first reading of the press. 723, the Government Bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, briefly summarized the main motives presented by the amendment. At present, virtually all European countries are suffering from a lack of doctors, and it can be expected that the situation will only deteriorate. The development of the demographic curve in both Europe and, of course, in our Republic, where an ageing population will need more health care, will also contribute to this deterioration. The Czech Republic is also beginning to feel a lack of doctors. The situation is still unbalanced. The lack of doctors is asymmetrical both in the fields and in the regions. There are areas where doctors are relatively sufficient, such as large cities. Then there are areas where there are doctors, especially in certain fields, already in short supply, these are smaller towns and mainly border municipalities. Among other things, the possibilities of the solution are also primarily in improving the system of specialization training for doctors. Doctors who have gone through and through the existing specialization system draw attention to its excessive complexity, the lack of consistency caused by frequent and sudden changes. It is for this reason that the Ministry of Health has prepared a bill aimed at simplifying this system and, first, stabilizing it for the future. The proposal went through a rather complex inter-ministerial commentary procedure and it can be expected that even here at the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be subject to intensive discussion. However, when it is approved, we should bear in mind the main motive of the proposed amendment, which is to ensure a sufficient number of qualified doctors in future years. As I am expecting an intense discussion, I would then read and propose an extension of the debate for 30 days to a total of 90 days in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening the debate and, please, Mr Heger. After that, Mrs. Soňa Marková will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Minister Němeček, allow me to make such an insightful comment on the amendment to the Act on the Education of Physicians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down! If anyone has anything to deal with, please, outside the boardroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u8	The amendment has a huge chance to improve the conditions for the growth of our young doctors. This is quite indisputable and can be welcomed and in this respect the TOP 09 proposal will be supported. It brings a number of great elements such as the definition of what a young doctor can do at different stages of preparation independently, what the conditions of supervision of a resident are. It introduces, for example, an educational board as an institute for resolving interdisciplinary disputes that can be very, very tough in medicine, and to this day we do not have any sort of arbitrary of these disputes created. Furthermore, the law will allow for simplified accreditation of smaller centres for training in the tribe and there are other positive things in it. What is very positive has already been mentioned by the Minister. The amendment returns to the law the structure of the fundamental disciplines, as it once was when the law was established. [[14.50 hours]] However, all the positive innovations I was talking about are at risk of the proposed structure of the disciplines, which has caused significant protests by the professional companies concerned in recent months, which have been shielded by the Czech medical company Jan Evangelista Purkyně. The original proposal of the Ministry of Health was prepared after a long discussion, which was concluded, and then the whole proposal was significantly modified. The public secret is that it was thanks to the intervention of the management of the Czech Medical Chamber, which held the position that there are too many medical disciplines in our country, and another opinion that the education of doctors is long. The fact that there are too many medical disciplines in our country is absolutely true. I will still discuss the length of education. But the number of disciplines and the fact that there are many of them only apply in this way, if we count the basic specializations together with the disciplines of superstructures. We've got the building blocks swamped. They try to act like they are some other, higher specialization, and yet, unlike the fields of the fundamental Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament, they do not regulate the superstructures at all. Rather, he admits them as an instrument for defining activities that a doctor may carry out beyond the basic specialization. There is a great commemorative optimism around the education system for our earlier postgraduate two-stage management. This postgraduate education survived for a very long time after the 1989 revolution, although it was already lagging behind against developed countries in the 1980s. Nobody's admitting it today. Everyone praises the former system, but who had the opportunity to get to know doctors from abroad, already at the time of socialism, knew that education abroad was much more intense, much more effective, and the doctors came out of this education considerably faster in terms of their expertise than the doctors were with us. From time to time, there is even a retrospective of doctors on TV who emigrated at the time and confirmed what I said here. Then there was a radical change, and paradoxically, the 2004 Law on the education of doctors was the last key law in the health sector, which was born, due to interdisciplinary disputes, which we will be facing a little today too. In 2004, the law was enforced by the directive of the European Union and the adoption of European standards and was created in the law 83 fundamental - I stress the fundamental - fields compared to the current 46. There has been an incredible atomization of medicine and the emergence of disciplines that European medicine does not know as a fundamental field to this day. During the next 12 years, the state, thanks to the gradual amendment of the law and the decrees, settled on the 46 reasonably configured basic disciplines. However, 51 branches of superstructures remained, which developed both from the original basic fields in the groundbreaking law, and today we have 97 fields of medicine. In this regard, the Czech Medical Chamber is right that there are too many. On the contrary, once again, I say that the 46 basic disciplines are a reasonable number and are compatible with Europe in total. What can we do? I think the Ministry has already prepared the land quite well in this regard. The construction disciplines need to be radically reduced in number, but on the other hand, it is also necessary to humiliate them formally, not to be talked about so that it is clear that they are not based on the level of the basic disciplines, as it was established in the 2004 Act. I stress that the superstructures need to be humiliated formally, not professionally, and clearly separated from the basic fields. For example, they will be humiliated by the fact that only a professional society will decide on their existence and creation, for example, together with a medical chamber, or the Medical Society of Jan Evangelista Purkyně, and these subjects will also recommend an educational program, the relevant educational workplaces, trial cases, all autonomously, outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. Of course, not all of this will still be able to get into the law in the amendments, but some way to make the superstructures weaker would certainly be appropriate. There is another key problem in the structure of the disciplines, and this is the opinion of the Czech Medical Chamber, which wants and insists, despite the discussion that has been held, that the fields be not 46, but only 33. The medical chamber wants to shorten the study period. I'll get back to that. This shortening is, of course, possible, but only in the fields of fundamentals, and there this requirement is quite well copied by the ministerial proposal. But shortening in the superstructures is not possible. This clearly shows the analysis of the disciplines that are basic today and are to be moved to the superstructures. There are about 12 of them, and they all have an extension of one to two years. Moreover, there is a risk that the disciplines studied as superstructures will not even be Europeanly acceptable. This applies to major fields such as pneumology or gastroenterology, but also to small deficiencies such as nuclear medicine, child surgery or occupational medicine, which, among other things, are all fundamental disciplines in most countries of the Union. I'm not going to go into any more details. I agree - or we will support the extension of the second reading period, as proposed by the rapporteur here, so that further discussions can be held on the medical committee's expertise. But let me put an end to my contribution once more, with one last thought. The natural perception of doctors, which is a fundamental specialization and what is a superstructure, is influenced by a distinctive formal framework that characterizes the basic fields. Key facts that strengthen the tradition of exclusive basic fields include, in particular, the length of study of basic specializations and, in particular, the acquisition of full medical responsibility and autonomy during this study. Even the form of the final state examination, so-called certificate, and obtaining a diploma are factors for which successful completion of the basic specialization means in the professional life of a doctor practically as important psychological step as graduating from a medical faculty. That is why the lobby is so strong to maintain the existing reasonably distributed 46 fields. [[15.00 hours]] And one more thing. Today, the path towards reducing basic disciplines is often justified by the current lack of doctors. The probability that the lack of doctors in some fields proposed through the reduction of basic disciplines will be resolved is quite limited. If there is a shift in any field, it will be at the expense of others. In other words, if health care wants to have more general interns available, which, of course, desperately needs, it must also address problems such as the effectiveness of specialisation study, motivation and prestige of trainers, the attractiveness of later real employment in the relevant field and dozens of other details. Unfortunately, without these things, which are part of a culture of medicine, even the best law will not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u9	Thank you. Please, Mrs Marková. Mr. Holeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u10	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also make a few comments on this draft law, which we have been waiting for for quite a long time and from which we, or at least those who have long been concerned with health issues, have expected a great deal. Allow me to speak on behalf of the KSČM MP. The main objectives of the law, both in the explanatory memorandum and as presented by both the Minister and the rapporteur, are clear - to stabilise and improve the existing system of specialisation education and education in the superstructure fields of doctors, dentists and pharmacists in line with current health needs. The second main reason is to reduce the number of basic disciplines and shorten the lengths of education in them so as to increase horizontal penetration between disciplines. It is also worth recalling what has already been said here that there has been a lot of talk in the past about the fact that a large number of fields are one of the main reasons for the lack of doctors, and another reason that has been said a lot lately is also the need for an increase in health care salaries and wages. Here we are talking about education, in the past there has been a lot of talk about it, that a large number of disciplines are one of the main reasons. However, it is now apparent, after the law has seen the light of the world, that a reduction is causing huge discussions, particularly on the issue that should actually be eliminated, reduced and so on. I attended a public hearing last week at the petition committee, where a petition was discussed, which was just about reducing one of the disciplines relating to child care. I would like to speak here on this issue, because I believe that the arguments raised at this public hearing need to be actually discussed and considered in some way. Providing primary care, as has been introduced in our country, for children from zero to 19 years of age, is a long-term and comprehensive system of practically exceptional nature. In Europe, the care system is not uniform and a doctor with pediatric education, the so-called primary pediatrician, only under five years of age, provides care for some 80 percent of the countries. In addition, general doctors, family doctors, nurses, school nurses, vaccination centres, school vaccination sisters and so on are involved in this care. Each state therefore has its own system that suits it, and this also corresponds to the education system. Practically nowhere belongs to the comprehensive care of primary pediatrician review service, socio-legal issues, family relations and law issues, vaccinations to the extent that our system provides them. According to the European Directive, each State may have a field which is worthy of consideration in quotation marks, and the only requirement is the length of education that the branch of the practical doctor for children and adolescents meets. Therefore, there is no reason why a field that is well established in the Czech Republic should be fully compatible with Europe when this care is not provided there to that extent. And we should probably prefer the care that belongs to our children Czech, Moravian and Silesian. The European and global trend is in providing maximum care in ambulances. Hospital facilities are designed for serious diseases that cannot be diagnosed or treated outpatiently, not for normal and not for long-term continuous monitoring of chronically patients. This also results in a change and development of outpatient diagnostic and therapeutic methods that a doctor for primary care in the hospital will not learn. Of course, here I draw from what I have heard from those who have been dealing with this issue for a long time. There is no question about the need to stay in children's bedding facilities, but a significant part must be conducted in ambulances, where, in addition to diagnosis and treatment of the disease, the doctor and other significantly different tasks of the practical doctor for children and adolescents are taught. There is also talk of penetration. In the opinion of those who are involved in this field, the accessibility will not result either in the disruption of the fields or in the provision of care in part in the hospital and in part in the ambulance, which can be considered as some denial of the principle of primary care. Prosperity means establishing simple conditions for transition between disciplines so that young doctors receive full education and that part of the practice in which they have already obtained erudition has been taken into account by doctors with a certificate from one field and only that part of the practice they need to carry out a new field in case they choose to change, which is valid bilaterally. At the public hearing that I was present, there were questions that were addressed to the representative of the Ministry of Health, and I believe that these are the questions that should be answered in the course of this law. I would simply briefly sum up the questions raised. What are the reasons for changing child care education when the system for which education is set works and is satisfied with the state, health insurance payers, parents and patients? Next question. Is there a concept of child care and youth? Has there been an analysis of possible impacts on the entire health care system, including the follow-up to laws and decrees, where is the branch of the practical physician for children and youth as a provider of primary care for children and adolescents? What will be the motivation of the Ministry of Health for students of the medical faculty to enter primary care for children and youth instead of their better access to primary adult care? [[15.10 hours]] Will they - and if so, how will they - organise residential sites if they do not know where the doctors will go after graduating from the single education? How does the cancellation in the field of the practical doctor for children and youth solve the lack of doctors caring for children according to the formula lack of hospital doctors plus the lack of practical doctors for children and adolescents plus the lack of specialists equal enough doctors everywhere? How does the Europe-wide trend to strengthen primary care as required by the World Health Organization and meet the national health strategy 2020 adopted by both the Government and the Parliament of the Czech Republic combine with the abolition of the primary primary care industry for children and adolescents, which essentially ensures primary prevention? How will the child's right to the highest possible level of health care under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the Czech Republic, be ensured when this particular specialization, which is enshrined in the law as a fundamental field of primary care, is abolished and therefore claimed by every child and adolescent in the Czech Republic? How does the Ministry of Health's argument that only small fields are disturbed, which have a small number of doctors, those interested in the field and testers, when more than 2,000 doctors work in the field of general practitioners and adolescents, 60 new doctors report to the field each year, and over the last three years there has been a significant increase in interest in the field and testing of approximately 50 doctors - should we call it a doctor, perhaps - a year? How does the Ministry of Health explain the argument that the field of childhood and youth psychiatry will be maintained because there is a shortage of psychiatry, and the field of psychiatry for children and adolescents should be abolished because there is a shortage of psychiatry? How does the Ministry of Health explain the necessity of abolishing the field of the practical physician for children and adolescents for the necessity in the quotation marks of the compatibility of the field with Europe, when we currently have a significant lack of children's sisters whose educational field was abolished for exactly the same reason years ago? How does the Ministry of Health explain the expected increase in the number of practical physicians for children and youth in single education when, in Europe, as it likes to argue, there is a single education for pediatricians, and yet there is a shortage of outpatient physicians in primary paediatric care, and in addition, this care is completely inadequate in most states? And the last question: How will the Ministry of Health explain the cancellation of the field of practical doctor for children and adolescents and the expected shortening of practical training for young doctors when they now want to enter the field of practical physician for children and adolescents and in the motivational letter justify this by seeing the future in the field? Despite these questions and disagreeable arguments, I recommend that the present form of part of this law be released into second reading and in extended time, as proposed by the rapporteur here, properly discuss all the issues in the Health Committee and answer all the questions, not just those raised here by me. I think that is what is expected of us, and it is our job to do this in the Health Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u11	Mr Brázdil has now made a point of fact, after which another de facto Mr Běhounek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, each and every one of us, as I once said, will be patients, or are we already. Each of us has a child of our own, someone in the family who is older, and I would make an awful intercession so that you don't all turn into specialists and doctors right now. You're all gonna be bluffed by someone who's missing it or missing it. Please don't be a doctor. Stay with the MPs, let's get this right in your head, but let's not exhibate here. That's what I wanted to warn you. I know you can't do this, but I wanted to ask you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u13	Mr. Běhounek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u14	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Brázdil beat me a little bit. I have watched the first two performances so far, and I would ask you all, with all due respect, to seek a comprehensive approach to this law. This is not a disruption of the field, nor is it a liquidation of individual parts. It should intersect our efforts to simplify the education system, increase its penetration, and enable us to make our system fully attractive for our students and our graduate students. It is not about naming in detail the individual fields, expertise and not under the pressure of all those who believe that their field is essential and absolutely indisputable. They're all important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u15	Thank you. I have no further factual points, so please Mr Holeček, after whom Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform as rapporteur of the Committee on Petitions on this proposal. Through my person, the House's petition committee was consulted by representatives of the Initiative for the Conservation of Practical Paediatric Medicine with a petition of 104 364 petents protesting this ministerial amendment to the Act on Medical Education. I took over the box with the petition sheets at Malostranské náměstí on 10 March 2016 and on 26 April the petition was held with the participation of petents and petitioners. Members who are not members of the Committee on Petitions have also been visited frequently in the horsehouse. Petents from the Practical Paediatric Medicine Initiative led mainly to petitioning the following reasons: 1. They believe that the change in education is directly related to the change in the system of childcare in the Czech Republic. They fear the degradation of the childcare system and youth system in the Czech Republic, which is unique, cheap, quality and complex from the birth of the child to the 19th year. 2. They point to the absence of critical analysis of the effects of the amendment. No advantages or disadvantages were presented to abolish the field of practical doctor for children and adolescents, lack of SWOT analysis. 3. They resent the fact that the amendment extends the overall training period of PLDD from four to four and a half years, thereby increasing the risk of lack of doctors for primary care for children and youth in the field. The requirement of the amendment was to simplify and not prolong education, this step goes completely against it. 4. In the newly proposed field of pediatrics, one year training will not be in practice PLDD, which, according to petents, will neglect preparation in the area e.g. prevention, vaccination, assessment issues, but also e.g. school issues, bullying, integration of handicapped people, learning disorders. 5. Petenti believes that the amendment will not solve the personnel situation in the area of child care and youth. The lack of doctors is already manifesting itself in children's departments and specialized ambulances. They point out not to repeat the analogy problem as with the nurses. Years ago, a child nurse in education was abolished, and we are currently experiencing a massive shortage of these sisters. Children are entitled to their care under the Children's Rights Charter. Therefore, this field will be re-established. 6. Petenti warns of a significant increase in child care and adolescents. In countries where primary care for children is not adequately ensured, the number of hospitalizations and specialised professional examinations are increasing. As a result, the proposed amendment to the Act may impair the availability of child care by a pediatrician. 7. The proposed amendment to the law will make the availability of care worse. In the absence of PLDDs, it can be assumed that especially in village offices and peripheral areas, children will be unable to be cared for by a pediatrician. [[15.20 hours]] 8. In the event of a lack of PLDD, it would be very difficult to provide comprehensive and high-quality care, providing these health services by practical physicians for adults who do not have care for children and adolescents included in their educational programme, in addition they are sufficiently busy growing generations of seniors. 9. The current proposal for an amendment on doctoral education may, as a result, jeopardise the fulfilment of the Czech Government's programme statement, which declares in point 3.3 that the government will insist on compliance with the principles of solidarity of healthy people with sick, non-profit and universal availability of quality health care paid for by public funds. I personally was convinced by the petents, and I will meet them at second reading with an amendment. As a conservative, I said, "Don't disturb what works." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u17	Thank you. Please Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Štětina after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u18	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, as has already been said repeatedly, today we are getting to the long-awaited first reading of Act No. 95/2004 Coll., the Act on Postgraduate Education of Doctors, Pharmaceuticals and Stomatologists. I understand that this is a subject which nine-tenths of the esteemed members of this House are not very interested in and are distant to them, and I am not angry at you at all, yet I consider this topic very important and I beg you to be lenient in keeping with us doctors during this law. For the long term, we're talking about our health services being stabilized. Thank God for being stable, but if we don't want to be deaf and blind, then we have to admit that stability, and fragile stability, is given only at the cost of the great sacrifice of our health professionals, at the cost of a huge amount of overtime work, and also not too much time to rest and sometimes great overwork our health professionals. There is a lot of talk in this context about medical conditions, a lot of talk about pay conditions, but I am convinced that it is not just about salaries, but if I am talking to young doctors, young nurses, it is a lot about the education system as well. If we ask why we are currently leaving health professionals not only abroad, but also outside the field, the education system and some social recognition are probably the most important factors, given the many times mentioned salaries that young people lead outside the health sector. And it is important to admit that our young doctors already have a place to compare. At a time when I had discussions with colleagues who went abroad many years ago, most of the cases were doctors who first took the test, worked in our hospitals for some time and only then left as well-educated doctors abroad. Today, it is important to see that our young doctors are linguistically equipped just after graduation, and they have the necessary confidence, and therefore they are going abroad practically immediately after the completion of the medical school. In this respect, it is in five minutes twelve to amend both laws relating to education, i.e. Act No. 95/2004 Coll., which concerns doctors, but we have a similarly difficult discussion about Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on nonmedical medical professions. As part of the preparation of the amendment to this law, which we are discussing today, i.e. Law 96, the working group has acted in the Ministry of Health for a long time and I have to appreciate its work. [[correct 95]] I must say that I have been filled with mild optimism during its discussion, because the reports that came from the Commission's meetings have filled me with optimism in the sense that we can actually agree on a better education system, better postgraduate preparation, that it will be an amendment to the law that will allow our young doctors to perhaps be more user-friendly to go through a difficult period of postgraduate training. Unfortunately, at the moment when the proposals which the Commission has drawn up appeared in the discussion of professional companies, the Czech Medical Chamber, but also other representatives of the professional public, gradually the optimism gradually passed over me quite a lot. We've gotten into a lot of criticism. It turns out that the opinions of the professional public are very different, so in this context I do not envy the Ministry of Health when it bit through all these comments, and in the end today we have a government proposal for Amendment No. 95. However, if we want to be fair, we must acknowledge that despite the very hard work the Ministry of Health and the working group have done in this respect, we do not have a bill on our table that we can be absolutely exhilarating about. I am not saying this badly, but I expect us to have difficult work in committee, especially in the health committee. In this context, I would like to support the rapporteur's proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions. Leoš Heger and other colleagues have already talked about a lot of things here, so I will only mention a few comments from the professional public. I will miss those relating to individualities, which also concern what my colleague Jiří Běhounek was talking about, and these are the separate interests of some professional companies. That's not what I want to talk about, that's what we're going to do in committees. And for each of us Members, especially paramedics, there will be various pressures, as the one that should be the core of the field. I will mention more the reasons mentioned by young doctors themselves, because they are the ones we are waiting for in our hospitals, where today we lack doctors in a number of specialties across the Czech Republic, and I can say that we lack not only doctors, but also many nonmedical professions. So the few reasons our young doctors have not satisfied in the bill so far, and it is legitimate for us to talk about them in committee. Structure and number of basic fields. That's probably the most critical point. And it's not just about what our young doctors think. This is where the pressures of all the professional companies will be waiting for us. However, we need to come to a compromise that will mostly reflect belonging to the EU, so that we are also compatible in this regard with the recognition of specialised training in other EU countries. Length of education. This is also an area where we will probably never achieve a completely happy end in terms of the length of education in individual fields. Here I would see a little bit in the fields, which today are basic and in the future proposal, or in the proposal that is presented today, they have the position of the superstructure disciplines. Of course, young doctors do not like the fact that, instead of having five years of education, they have been waiting seven years in the finals, which is especially for women's doctors, and it has to be said that we already have most women among doctors today, at least in a number of fields, so it is, of course, difficult for them from a human point of view. Here I would mention another contradictory provision which, in the proposal that is presented today, envisages that the minimum amount of time that a doctor-in-patient must have at the time of postgraduate training is one half of the weekly working time set. Here I would very much like to find a compromise, because I know the cases of many doctors who return from maternity leave first to one day, then to two and gradually increase their time. I think there would be a great deal of discrimination if we did not allow our women doctors to do this. I also see a controversial provision in the fact that the law envisages that every doctor can only be involved in one field at a time. Here too, I know cases where we have very ambitious young doctors who prosecute preparation in two, sometimes even in three fields. Again, I don't think it's a problem for us to let them do this. [[15.30 hours]] I just wish, in discussing this for our health care, that we postpone our party interests. This is really about apolitical material. We need to stabilize our medical staff, so let us really treat this law as professionally as possible and let us look for ways to make education more enjoyable for young doctors, while not disrupting the quality of our doctors' education. So I would very much like to see a law at the end of the legislative process that will improve the situation in post-graduate education, prepare quality doctors for us while not running abroad or to pharmaceutical companies because of the unkindness of the education system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u19	Good afternoon. Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u20	Hello, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues. You don't have to worry about me giving a speech. Not at all. I have a little book in front of me that was published in 1966 on 20 April and it was called the certificate index. Everything could be read from this certificate index: I was included in what field, as I was educated, as I tested - successfully or unsuccessfully - as I had further education. And it was all in this simple book. You might say, "He's an old man, and he doesn't even know what he's talking about anymore." It was very simple. It wasn't a computer season. It was a period of common sense. All you had to do was work, keep your mouth shut, and be underpaid. That's how we did it. I think the Minister didn't have it so bad anymore because he's much younger. And I'm gonna follow up on that. I should behave as an opposition member - I will not, because I welcome this law for one simple reason that we are trying to go back to where we were many years ago, when we educated well, when even some of the chosen doctors were allowed abroad when they met the basic standards, and there was no problem with education. We had an institution called ÚDL. Today it's called IPVZ. And now I don't know if the two gentlemen present here are in favour of maintaining this institution. I am not lobbying for her at all, but I am in principle in favour of her doing this education because the education system for the first test, the second test and the superstructure test was very good. I was surprised we took out what worked for us. And I'll tell you why. Because those who wanted to make health care business after 2006 said that the European Union does not accept our education system and we have to act according to the European Union. I think that is not true at all, because I think that the European Union doesn't really care if we have an "A," a "B" and an extension test, but especially if we are doing it well. We wanted to privatize our training as well. We had IPVZ or ÚDL, and now maybe the Minister will correct me as it was all called, we educated doctors, we educated nurses in Brno and it worked. Guys, just two more points to finish. I don't like the fact that there are any petitions if there's going to be a pediatric field and a hospital. I think pediatrics is one field. David is certainly a pediatrician, and a good pediatrician, a neonatologist etc., so he will certainly confirm to me, but we are not agreed that education in pediatrics simply has to be one. If the doctor isn't at the baby's bedside, he's basically not gonna be able to touch them. I know why I'm saying this. By the time I was setting up the LSPP in 1990 as a child, general, dentalist following an ambulance, I got into a problem that the doctors of adults said, "But, you know, we can't treat those little kids, we can't touch them, we're afraid of them. So, of course, the adults, the adult LSPP, were worried about that. But with good guidance, and if they had the chance to touch that kid, let's say they didn't have that fear, of course. So I don't think it's at all for us to have any petitions that are definitely on order and that just solves what someone doesn't like, that is. I'd like it to be a place of professional assistants, professors, professors, etc. I think that's exactly right. Now, just a little something, and I'd like to ask you to do that, that's one thing at a time -- Minister, that's one thing. I totally agree with the 18 tribes that are there. I think I can personally stand up for the superstructures if I call it the old-fashioned way. I just want to add one thing, and that's why - and it's work medicine, Minister. I'm lucky to have been assigned to the Department of Hygiene in 1966, then tested from this field in 1970. I've been assigned to the field of surgery. Back then, they were just a field of surgery and an internship. That was it. In 1971 I was assigned to the field of anesthesiology and resuscitation under the new decree of the Ministry of Health. I would like to ask very much now that we still have the basic tribe of occupational medicine, because this is a field that basically connects the curative, combines prevention and unfortunately also the great bureaucracy. I just have respect for all the disciplines and especially those I don't understand. But I think it's just a circuit doctor or surgeon can be pretty hard to navigate in work medicine. Not that he can't do it, but he just doesn't want it because it's bothering him. But if we have a field of occupational medicine as basic, i.e. Tribe, so I think it might be good for things. Then, of course, I agree that this law really needs to be discussed well and responsibly, that the expert society should all comment on it, that the medical chamber should comment on it and, of course, that the ministry, which must be responsible for it, should comment on it. But I don't think otherwise, and that's actually the last sentence, that by adopting the law, the law on the education of doctors, and then the nurses, we solve the lack of doctors. I may say one thing here that no one will like in this republic. If young doctors graduate, i.e. They're six years old, they're on a very good level compared to the old of us, that's beyond comparison, but we have so much experience today that we can give them out again, so it's not good if they just leave after graduation. It's not a matter of education, it's a question of finance. So if this should continue, I think that we should consider whether we should pay extra attention to the study in some way. And that may be what the Minister, as a Social Democrat, will not like, he will not like as a politician. And as a doctor, he's gonna love it, but he's not gonna say it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u21	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u22	Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, the changes that have been made in the field of medical and non-medical education since 2004 have been unfortunate, but I am afraid that the original proposal that we have received for the education of doctors will not solve the whole problem, which concerns the education of doctors and the causes of the lack of doctors, by reducing in itself the number of fields. And it's not gonna be an increase in doctor's pay. [[15.40 hours]] There's a system of education that I don't think works well. And I would expect the Minister, who otherwise has very good contacts with the Czech Medical Chamber, to be more concerned with what bothers doctors on the current education system, about the postgraduate education of doctors. I've dealt with the reasons that bother the doctors in the current system. Some I dare quote. It is necessary to establish the personal responsibility of the trainer for the trainee. It is necessary for the educational programme to be followed and the trainee to be transferred to another workplace after the teacher's consent. The rights and responsibilities of the trainer, trainer and employer in relation to education must be defined and possible penalties for these three entities must also be defined. The model contract between the employer and the trainee must be defined so that the trainee does not become a slave. The current model of postgraduate doctoral education is almost vanquished for both doctors and hospitals themselves, especially for non-faculty hospitals. However, changes in the postgraduate education system cannot be made without change in the other spheres of the whole health system of the Czech Republic. For example, not only obligations, but also proper financial evaluation of trainers, restrictions by health insurance companies against insured persons in case of abuse of the emergency, removal of hospital doctors from the existential dependence on emergency services and so on. Personal experience. Faculties with no experience in organising the education and courses of basic tribes do not provide sufficient information, or maybe they themselves are not well informed. I don't like the absolute dependence of doctors without specialized qualifications on their behalf because of the training workplace. Training centres are few, so they can dictate the conditions under which doctors allow themselves to test without specialization. It is no exception that doctors have the experience fulfilled, but they cannot go to the test because the employer or the head of the department does not want it, because it is better for him to continue working for a lower salary and wait for them to get the opportunity. The current system of postgraduate education exploits doctors in the preparation for a certificate and is discriminatory for women doctors and some men doctors who do not allow family conditions to undergo long internships, often several years of nonsensical stays at higher-type workplaces. The price of internships and courses should be fixed and guaranteed. Many young doctors are forced to pay for these internships by their means. Preparation for the certificate should take place optimally on the employer's premises. It would be advisable for every doctor, regardless of the specialization chosen, to start working in a hospital of the district type, faculty, university. The test preparation would be 90 per cent on the employer's soil. For example, after one to two years according to the chosen field, he could go to the outpatient sphere and so on. The preparation for the certificate should be shorter, up to three years. It would be more appropriate to extend the spectrum of superstructure tests. Furthermore, I suggest that we work harder and control the lifelong learning of doctors and doctors better motivate them to learn. Since I work in a small hospital that only has first degree accreditation in my field and other fields in my hospital as well, after a tribe that I have completed in four years, I need to spend 31 months in faculty hospitals. Every month the hospital costs CZK 5,000 plus expenses for my salary. There's a shortage of doctors in the department, so they let me in for a total of two months every year, which means that I'm going to have about 15 years from tribe to certificate. Yes, this system is not satisfactory. Education is completely messy. The biggest problem I see is that there aren't enough qualified doctors with practice in hospitals, most of them went to the private sector, so there's no one to learn from. It is not easy to get to a higher-type workplace because most peripheral hospitals do not want to release their trainee to internships and cannot do so in any way. Last year, I passed the test after eight years of continuous practice. The internship was very difficult to ask and release on them. After the basic tribe at my maternity place, I was not given space in normal working hours for my field, which I operated for four years beyond normal working hours and services on a normal table salary. I'm exhausted and very annoyed. I have decided to go to England, where I am fully engaged, and I am educated during the day, and the employer cares about complying with the conditions of the educational programme. I want a similar active approach to my students in the Czech Republic. Previously, the two-assay system under the gesture of the Institute of Postgraduate Education is fully suited to take place at the tribal workplace. Professional internship for short, well-defined periods or for the purpose of carrying out or assisting clearly given specialization performances that are not performed at the home workplace. Superspecialized performances cannot be met by certification requirements, the number of performances, for example in surgery, is completely unrealistic. Some even found that the number of certain performances that interns have to operate does not correspond to the total number of performances that are done in the Czech Republic within one year. The long-term stay of a trainee in a specialised workplace leads to its use for administrative purposes, so that the performance to which it is sent primarily does not usually reach. Cheap labour for higher workplaces, lacking at home workplaces, where often under good professional guidance they meet the objective of their delivery education much better. Greater confidence in the head of home workplaces, who should be responsible for the education of their trainee, preferably for compulsory participation in the test. The current state of education is not good. I would like to draw attention to immoral phenomena. First, paid internships at higher workplaces, when a trainee for so-called. training is valid while performing normal secondary work. Secondly, many disciplines require more than one year's internships at clinics in Prague, Brno and so on. Again mostly secondary work, but mainly significant intervention in family life, family budget, especially when it comes to mothers of young children and children in primary school. At the same time, I don't believe that, for example, regional hospitals or larger hospitals would have trained the adepts just as well. Since I'm fresh after the test, I can say the whole system is pretty tragic. Internships are paid for by faculty hospitals, but no one can guarantee you'll see anything professional there. They're using you as a cheap labor force. I've also experienced an absurd situation where I've been asked to take care of the medics. There's an over-the-counter administration that's all about it. Nonsensical and even more senseless performances and last but not least a few mandatory transfer courses without meaning for practice. [[Nesroz.]] Specialization education is an instrument whereby the state carries out its responsibility for the quality and safety of health work. The acquisition of specialization competence entitles a doctor to provide health care separately. It is a kind of equivalent to a pilot's licence, where the State takes over the guarantee that the person concerned can operate independently and the citizens will not be harmed to their health. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to citizens, whom the State will allow to provide health care independently. Therefore, the whole process of obtaining specialisation education must be managed in a uniform manner, be transparent, provide the state at any time with an up-to-date overview, while also being useful for those who seek specialised competence, as well as for those who educate them. It is understandable for applicants to sign up for education in one place and perform a final test in one place in a single scheme. The present system for the performance of examination tests at medical faculties on the principle of so-called the balanced subsidy was not successful because in practice the various sectoral or regional interests were applied and did not provide the Ministry of Health with the necessary information in due time. The Ministry of Health lacks, and often stresses that it lacks, data that would allow the problems of the current system of specialization education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, and in implementing this problem is based on information from the UHIS, the professional public, members of the commission for a new concept of specialisation education, professional society and, last but not least, from professional chambers and on information known by the Ministry from its own activities. The Ministry therefore had to be based largely on secondary data, from which it was possible to obtain clear information about the state and problems of postgraduate education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists. [[15.50 hours]] When we discussed on the Health Committee the final account of the Ministry of Health chapter, the expenditure on medical education, we found that there has been repeated non-use of funds intended for so-called residential sites. Each year, there are around 500 miles of space. CZK, from which it is drawn about 140 or 170 miles. CZK, year after year since 2010, and overall when drawing on residential places and institutes for the education of doctors it is about 350 mil. The koruna, which is roughly half of what has been listed. Here is proof that the system of postgraduate doctoral education is not well set up in our country. This law, which goes only the way of reducing disciplines, or more or less the basic aim is to reduce the number of basic disciplines, will not solve the essential why doctors, among other things, leave the Czech Republic abroad and why our complicated and chaotic system of doctor education does not suit them. And since I know that the current proposal that we are discussing here will make significant changes, I would like to ask the Minister and the Ministry to deal with the suggestions written by individual doctors to take part in a survey organized by the Czech Medical Chamber in the number of about 6,500 respondents. And what I quoted here at the beginning of my speech, I think it is very serious to think about how to regulate this law, how to get things into it that relate to the education system itself and its unification, for example, under IPVZ. I will briefly touch on the intention to reduce the basic disciplines. Yes, there is room for this discussion during committee discussions and at second reading, but I will still be able to make just one comment. The Ministry decided to abolish the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, including reasons for improving the availability of doctors. And the second reason - some compatibility with education laws within the European Union. I believe that this proposal will not increase the number of doctors in hospitals, i.e. pediatricians in hospitals, even because, in my opinion, a number of pediatricians will go into private practice if they are allowed to do so in a relatively simple way as suggested by the Ministry. And above all, the basic meaning of this step is that the system works for a long time, the parents are satisfied with this system. Last but not least, I think that this system, as it is set up, means the existence of practical medicine for children and adolescents, is also very financially advantageous for health care as a whole, because it is primary care, which, in a good way, can mean stabilizing health insurance funds and reducing expenses, which would otherwise mean increasing the cost of treatment in hospitals, i.e. for treatment in the workplace, where a physician is no longer able to treat more complex diseases within his competencies. So much for my comment on this law. I would like to ask the Minister that the reasons which lead the doctors to go abroad should be dealt with comprehensively, not just by reducing the basic disciplines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u23	I thank Mr Hovorka. I'm sorry, but with a point of fact, Mr Jan zahradník is here. [[Mrs Kovářová, enlisted]] Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs. Kovářová, I am so sorry, but I would like to make a comment. In the first place, I would like to join those who support the maintenance of paediatric specialization. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to one thing, perhaps as an interruption of the flow of very good information about the postgraduate training system of doctors. None of us can imagine giving care of his health to a person who, for example, would go straight from the faculty into practice and begin to heal. We expect our doctors to be constantly educated, prepared, either out of a system's obligation or out of their own personal desire to educate themselves. But there is a similar system in our lives, there is also a sector where we entrust - at this point I mean our children - to schools. We assume that teachers who will take care of them, who will educate them, will also be adequately educated. But here it must be said that for teachers a similar system of training for the pursuit of the profession, a similar system of advanced postgraduate education does not exist. Yes, some universities - I am still at the Faculty of Education in Budějovice - offer such opportunities within various projects, offering teachers the opportunity to develop their education, but it is somehow not directly governed by some provisions. It is an interest, of course teachers are interested in it, but perhaps it would be worth thinking about a similar system that works so well, and I believe it will work even better for doctors, also for our teachers. Of course it will also follow up on their career growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u25	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly signed up is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, my contribution concerns dentists. I am not a doctor, but my name is Kovářová, and as far as I know, the blacksmiths have previously devoted themselves to this field, so I hope that the Member will forgive me for speaking on this subject. The proposal before us today has long been presented by the government as a measure that should help to address the problem of the lack of dental practitioners, virtually. their uneven distribution. For those who would like to challenge this problem, I say that a fifth of dentists are over 60 years of age and graduates are by far not enough to replace the blackout. I would therefore like to call on the Government, in the context of this point, to continue its efforts to ensure the conditions of dental care, considerably faster than before. I remind you that for the first time I drew attention to the problem of the lack of dentists two years ago, and since then, the government's responses have been enchanted by the proposal that we have before us today. I firmly hope that further steps that will lead to better availability of dental care in the present and near future will follow much faster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Another duly registered member is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. I'd like to say Dr. Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Doctor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u28	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it is my duty as a doctor to speak on this subject as well. Originally, I made it up very subtlely, because, as you probably know, the most important author of the scientific publication is either the first author or the last one. So I volunteered to be the last, unfortunately, colleague Fiedler ruined it for me, so I'm speaking here as the most ordinary, because the second-to-last in scientific work is the least significant. [[16.00 hours]] First of all, I would like to say that I thank the Ministry and the Minister for putting on the table a law that we have all tried on the ground of the historical medical chamber, because, as you probably don't know, the lowest normal number of specialization education in the world is 28 and the highest is roughly 42. We had a phase where we had over 100 of those disciplines. When it went down to 33 today, it's half a miracle, but of course it brings a lot of problems, because it means that someone was pushed away from that table as if to something that could be understood as a less significant number. I think that the issue of which fields and how many disciplines will certainly be the subject that the Health Committee will be dealing with. It's gonna be a topic we're all gonna be discussing. Therefore, I would very much support my colleague Kasal's proposal to extend the period to 60 days. I believe that in the Health Committee we will be dealing with this very, very closely. And that is why we, as the Civil Democratic Party, will support this law to advance to the next round. Many of the problems that are there have been raised here. There was talk of practical doctors for children and adolescents, there was talk of length of education. This new law sets out the length of education in the range of three to six years. This is certainly a very long time when you realize that six years is also a period of medicine, and so it puts together twelve years. And if someone's doing another superstructure, it could grow over ten years. The education of doctors varies in the world and in the European Union. It was said here somewhere that we can't imagine anyone working after graduation - in Greece, it is so that after graduation, a doctor gets on one of the islands and works there as a practical physician for two years without having had any education before. And it also works. Maybe on that island, on those vacationers, they're gonna learn the basic medicine on those couple of housewives. The praised United Kingdom has education, which is also very special, because there is no experienced doctor in a hospital where doctors are to be educated. Doctors come in once a week, make their own private patients, and in the meantime, as a patient, you don't run into anyone who's been here longer than two years after graduation. The system that was created in our country was very interesting. He guaranteed a certain variant of education and, of course, eventually reached its limits, because medicine continues. The complexity that doctors have to deal with today - it is not just medicine anymore, it is a question of computer science, it is a question of computer systems, very complex and sophisticated instruments and education is obviously becoming difficult. I would like much more for my person if the education system were based on the question of the trainer. I could imagine if I had someone to educate, that at some stage of his education I would say, yes, you know how to do it, and that's from the medicine, and that means you're going to do this kind of activity at my clinic. I can even say the reverse thing. Me from my practice - and I have taught my whole life, I have educated at the biggest clinics and faculties that exist in this country, that there are stages when I say to this doctor: look, you chose this field, but I would advise you to choose something else. Just because the medicine I'm doing is also about whether he's handy or not, he doesn't have to be just brains. And if those hands just don't have the talent, they can't do that thing. That is why I think that this law should build more on how the teaching itself is linked, giving the trainer the maximum possible responsibility. I can imagine that any doctor who then takes the position of Chief of Staff will be, as it was for my father, until he's dead to say: I've grown up at Professor Klaus's clinic. And his supervisor's name is a guarantee that it was good. That should separate everything that the schoolchildren are most often complaining about today - that they are not actually educated in those workplaces. That they're going to go there, doing some work, not quite professional, not getting to these difficult things, and that, in fact, they're able to learn what they need to learn at their basic workplaces. Of course, if we built education on a responsible trainer in this way, it would mean that the responsible trainer would also have to be financed in some form. It shouldn't just be some extra work for him. What the current education of graduate doctors needs and will need more and more is penetration among the disciplines. Of course, I can imagine - and I don't want to say it, because there are a lot of colleagues who are paramedics driving that ambulance. She's a good driver in her 30s, she's still in her 40s, but at the age of 50, it's a lot of work. It's like being a gym teacher and teaching smoke. When you're 25, you cut it when you're 50 and you're 80 kilos, you don't show it to the kids. It must also make it possible for someone who chooses clinical medicine to be able to leave the clinical medicine at some stage and to do basic, outpatient medicine. I don't want to say simpler, every medicine is complicated, but it requires a different deployment, a different knowledge and a different time burden. And the other way around. So that the possibility of transitioning from practice to specialization after some time is possible. Here we can only imagine the question of women who might want to work in a workplace that is not burdened with emergency services, which is not burdened with overnight work, which does not require such a great psychological burden that they have enough at home with those two or three children. But at the moment that the psychic burden is taken over by the children, it would take a number of doctors to postpone their careers for the sake of the family and to return to it in some form. These are all things that we should talk about simply because when we create something that is the law, there will actually be no exceptions. And we should find a promenade so that every one of those doctors, besides being fascinated by the medicine, could also apply that fascination to what suits him most. I don't want to talk about all the problems that the law has. Again, this is the first time anyone has managed to build that number on some real number. Whether we shorten it or extend it by two or throw something out of it is irrelevant. What matters is what I'm talking about. This system should allow for penetration. And we should take care of that as much as we can. That's what I still see there as a lack of law. That's why I'm in favour of talking about this for a long time. Not to change the principle, but to find some possibility of individuality in that principle, just to make it work. And the other thing. I am convinced that education will not be good if someone in the workplace is not directly responsible for it. Someone at the workplace, sure, the head of the workplace, or some designated trainer under it. And that must go ad personam. The responsibility of the trainer must be that I have the opportunity at some point when I have an extraordinarily capable person to say: Yes, the tribe lasts so long and so long, you've managed to do the performances, you've done them well. The knowledge that I don't try -- I'm talking to you about the field, and I know you know it -- is that I'm gonna allow you to do the profession to the extent that you're two years old by now. There are no big differences. You just load things, you can learn that in six months instead of three. But you won't be meeting those cases to see them. But seeing them and using them doesn't make a decree. He won't. It's been three years or five years. Look at how the individual disciplines stretch it out in the process of what was being created. Out of three years, they've been at five and a half, stating that they're surgery, other specialties, whether head or heart. There's a tendency to just stretch it out. I say no. If there's a capable person there, it doesn't have to stretch out, and I have to have room to send a capable person into the world as soon as possible. Because the optimal age for medicine is relatively low. You won't be going any further when you're 40. By the time you're 40, it's the only time you're growing. When your knowledge grows, your manual skill. And what we're actually achieving is that the age of those top-notch people, where they have the opportunity to start doing it, the theoretical possibility, to start free, is the limit of 40. And that's wrong. [[16.10 hours]] That's why I'm saying there's a lot of places to talk about. It may not work, but it has to get on the table. The fact that education isn't a theory has to get on that table. That we need to teach those doctors. Not only knowledge, but craft itself, because it is a craft at some stage. Even the intern is about craft today, because all the catheterizations they do are about manual skill. And that's what I see as a lack of law on our table. But it's a lack of all new things. And when we find the will to talk about it, I think we could create something that's viable. I also understand, in terms of viable, that these people are not only undergoing this because they have to, but because they know it is meaningful. That he'd learn something. And that's the biggest negative reason today that young doctors call you. The general part of my graduate education is not meaningful to me. Just because I don't do what I need to learn fast. The question of the amount of time, I'm sure it all has to do with it. But the essence is - we have to make room for it to be teachable. And certainly the comic stories that there aren't enough specialized gliomas in the whole republic to operate 20 during the preparation, so it just can't be done. So it's a certain appeal to all of you. Believe that the Health Committee will deal with this very closely. Believe us, we'll try to give you the best option possible. But the best possible option will definitely hurt someone. Every thing that goes forward is painful. I am saying this because, of course, we will all be under a lot of pressure. We will listen to them, but we will try to find concrete answers to specific objections. And I'm not saying that I'm happy that the practical medicine for children and adolescents is going to die or that there's still a child's gynecology, urology, because it's not gonna feed anyone. Oh, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u29	I thank Mr Svoboda. So far, the last duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. I would remind you that a proposal for an extension of the deadline should still be drawn up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very sorry that I took away Professor Svoboda's intention to be the last performer. However, I believe and believe that my performance will only be such a small act, and the real dot was the performance of Mr. Docent Svoboda. You all know I'm not a doctor. I think that this issue concerns, above all, the discussion here in the House of Physicians. And I believe that colleagues of the doctors who are here among us will approach this professionally. I've heard some of their opinions on the petition committee, and I think it's gonna be a pretty standard opinion from the health committee as well. But the reason I took the liberty of being an expert on this subject. It has already sounded from the mouth of both the rapporteur and some previous speakers, as well as my colleague Dr. Štětina, and this is the issue of lack of doctors. I think the time has grown to the highest possible extent to think about the reality that on the one hand students are studying, becoming doctors and leaving at the same time. Which has two negatives. It's essential. At least that's how I see it. For one thing, it is lacking in our health system, and the other, it costs us money, and there is no benefit. I understand, of course, some attraction after the foreign earnings. But I think it's not quite right - I'll say it cheap, I won't say it for free, but let's say it's cheap to graduate, then forget it and go somewhere else. I think it is really time for us to find the courage to start at least seriously discussing and discussing that, in such a case, there should be, on the one hand, a stabilisation commitment or clause, or if someone decides to take such a step, then at least a very significant part of the cost of these studies should be recovered. Because that's what taxpayers put together in the state budget, and it costs money. Colleague Štětina mentioned here briefly that we should find the courage to start discussing this, even some charges for it. I'm not a fan of that. I still think we'd put some students there at a disadvantage who would like to get such qualifications, and it would be complicated for them. But the real question of some stabilizing commitment, especially in the case of such a demanding and expensive study, is really appropriate. For this reason, too, I expect the debate to stir up. I will support the rapporteur's proposal and one of the previous speakers to extend the time limit for discussing this proposal. And this problem, which I mention, which I am talking about, I think is not just a problem of the medical sphere, is a problem of a number of technical disciplines. I'm not going to over-development it to keep up with what I said at the beginning, that it's just a small statement, and the main dot was Mr. Svoboda Professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u31	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Brázdil, followed by the rapporteur with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u32	I'm sorry, I can't be unresponsive. Stabilization fee! So what you're saying is that a lawyer who graduates here and goes abroad should pay for something here, too? That it should be a bricklayer who's going out to work? So everyone here should pay for graduating here. Well, we'll deny that the free movement of work. Okay, I'm not going back to that. However, please, doctors don't leave just for the money. Yes, money is important. They're not just leaving because of some inconvenience. But they also want to live decently and have free time! So it's not just money that drives, but it's also decent conditions and having time for a family and another normal life. That's why they're leaving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u33	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Also a factual comment on Mr Fiedler. And I'm gonna fill in a colleague of the Brázdil. There was a time, I don't know how it is now, when one third of students from the Slovak Republic studied at the Faculty of Medicine Hradec Králové. Would they pay stabilization fees, too? Because only a small part of them remained working with us in the Republic, they are going back to Slovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u35	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u36	I have to respond. Now I think I'm really going to show that I'm part of the budget committee and that I'm a little worried about the finances. I do not think it normal for Mr Plzák, through Mr President, to study so many students in our schools that we are paying for it. I know there's some freedom that we need this. But I thank Mr Plzák, through Mr President, that he mentioned this, that he mentioned this, this problem. That even I don't think it's perfectly normal for them to study at our schools for funds coming from our state budget, students who won't even stay with us. I really don't think that's normal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u37	Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to conclude by making a summary and responding to some of the colleagues who have spoken here. I would like to start by thanking you, because, as you can see, consistency in opinions and what needs to be done is clearly there, and I would like to thank you for all the performances. There were nine Members with their contributions, plus others debating in brief responses. But he won't let me mention the pediatrics that resonated the most here, and as you've already noticed since we've already started discussing this law, your first mention has already landed on your parliamentary pages. I would like to say one thing: neither the Ministry nor the Health Committee nor I, as a pediatrician, have ever said a single word about the interruption of primary practitioners for children and adolescents who provide this treatment in outpatient facilities. It never fell and it can't fall because without their care it is not possible to provide care for children's patients in our Republic. That's what I want to make it sound clear and make it sound like a foundation stone. I'm only going to make an easy statement about this petition, because every person's opinion can be summarised in the petition. I can't forgive myself for the fact that when I saw the questions, how are they, because I had a number of questions to my email address: Do you want to cancel children's doctors in the field? And the kids will only treat us in hospitals? I've had these opinions, and I've had to explain them repeatedly. If you ask a question like that, any parent who is satisfied with his doctor will say that he does not want to disturb the field, of course. I would like to say here responsibly that this is really just a change of education. For me, as a pediatrician, it's kind of unacceptable to have the same diagnosis that I'm treating in a hospital in some way, so that it's treated in a completely different way on a level in the field. This is unacceptable to me, and that is the reason for combining education in these fields. There's a very interesting thing. I'm a pediatrician, who's been in practice for 24 years, a 14-year-old chief of staff, and according to how it's written, I don't mean according to the design, but according to the previous draft, so I can't immediately take the position of a physician because I'm undereducated. At various seminars, it was shown what we don't do in hospitals. I can say responsibly that from what has been shown to me, it is three things or two things: we do not inoculate and do not testimonials. That's all we don't do. Everything else that's been discussed here, we provide, and the children's social problems. If a child comes to us who's being bullied or who's having some psychiatric problems, we can't let him out of the hospital until he gets an expert examination. So basically, we're doing all the work from a different point of view, but just like in practice. But if my colleagues argue from practice that they also advise mothers who are divorced or in families who are divorced, it is a question of whether it should be paid by the health insurance company, if I should not turn to the Ministry of Justice, which in this case should therefore be reimbursed by legal advice or advice that is in this case. Of course, I'm making it easy, but that's the kind of opinion you learn. And there's a very interesting thing. Like I said before, I couldn't work in the field. But is it a very interesting matter when practical doctors address doctors who are needed one or two years after entering the hospital, do they not have a tribe, for example, or do they have a tribe, which is a two-year education, are on maternity leave, and if they need a crowd in their offices, then can these doctors serve there without difficulty? I would like to answer these questions as to how this is actually possible. There is one thing that Mr Kaňkovský has said about part-time work. I'm sure it's a good thing. And I'm using my department, and basically right now, when I have four doctors on maternity leave, each one has a time of 0.1 to 0.6 according to her needs, as she is able to take care of her children. Here we agreed that it would definitely need an option. And in order not to be abused, as it was before, when the person was employed at 0.1 and he was there all the time, we would normally go on maternity leave, and I think there's no problem at all, and this will be settled. About IPVZ. There will certainly be a need for this education to be organised in a reasonable way, for people to apply to the single system and to know exactly as it was for us, where the course is taking place, how the course awaits, and for the course to be sufficiently intensive and for education to be beneficial to it. Of course, this also has to do with what is already in the proposal that the vast majority of education will take place in the maternity ward or at the maternity employer, because not only family matters, but also what was done in some departments, that the doctors were used there as cheap labor, so it should not be repeated. I'm going to respond to one more thing that Mr. Hovorka here said. Doctors are generally in short supply. I can tell you that from my personal experience, I understand what you've read from those letters that specific writers complain here that they're not allowed to test or to educate. I'll tell you the whole reverse thing. At the moment, when pediatricians and other specialists are very small quantities, there is no problem at all that the person concerned should come to you and tell you from one day to the next: Mr. Mayor, if you don't let me educate, I will leave the house behind, because that is where education will clearly allow me. And we're being pushed to have those educated doctors, too, because it's not about paying them extra. It's 15 hundred more, so it doesn't make any difference to the hospital. But I need those educated doctors so that I can even build a service so that I can make sure that the operation of the sleeping facility is even ensured. So that's the way things are. I will follow up on my fellow Svoboda, which would in principle be an ideal period. I stand by everything, even as far as the trainer is concerned, because when there is a person in the department who is dedicated to the person concerned, and I also observe it with students who come in the third, fourth, fifth years of two to three weeks of internship, it is my return to the fact that when we devote ourselves to them during these short days, even if they are doing practical things, the advantage is that I have not had a problem with the graduates who have applied for me in the last five years. Every year, five to seven of them were reported to me, and I was able to choose, which of course other devices could not say, and then those students or graduates turned around after the studies to secure their place. Finally, I would like to say one more story about the education, and it is in connection with when we were on a trip to Germany, in German hospitals, so there was one thing that we were told that they wanted us to successfully manage the change in education and not to fall during atomization as it is in Germany. In the early hours of the evening, they brought a man with a broken hand to a normal county hospital, and since the surgeon's doctor was only educated in abdominal surgery, he said, "I'm not going to treat your hand, I'm not going to set your hand straight" and the patient had to be taken elsewhere. I think this is something that we definitely don't want to work through, and that draft from the ministry with certain modifications that we're going to work on and that should be the extension of the time, so we're going to work towards it, and it's definitely going to be the most necessary for our students and our patients. Finally, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for discussing this 30-day bill for a total period of 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u39	Thank you, Mr Kasal. I apologize to the Minister. First of all, with a factual remark, Mr Pavel Antonín, then with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are reading the first reading of the law, which is absolutely essential for doctors and health professionals. We can add 3 %, 5 %, 10 % to doctors, but if we don't change the way we train the entire health system, it's not gonna make any sense anyway. Let's be aware of that. If schools continue to educate the same system, if they continue to educate the labs, nurses, all kinds of disciplines, they will still educate two thirds of the foreigners, so they'll just never be able to get us doctors to take care of you in our departments in district hospitals. Remember, it takes six years to prepare for medical school and up to six years to test, so if we can change this law, in 12 years you'll have the first doctor in bed who will take care of you in the right way. So you're really deciding on a long course and a very crucial step. You will be pushed from all sides by petitions of all kinds of disciplines and specializations, because anyone who has a round stamp on some branch of the right adrenal gland and the left eye will pressure you that his field is absolutely essential, because without the left eye and the right adrenal gland you can't be. Pediatricians - a beautiful analogy: I'm a gynecologist, a circuit gynecologist does something completely different than an oncological gynecologist, and something completely different from an obstetrician. Should we have three testimonials? Please think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u41	I thank Mr Antonín. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a sort of final recapitulation, as I have seen from my point of view. I promise to be brief because I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for the debate on this bill. The debate was really substantive, it was difficult to move somewhere. I think it shows that in the health committee, where I suppose the main focus will be yet another work on the law, we will be building on this primarily with the aim of solving something and dealing with what connects us, not looking for some political differences, and that is why it is a very good signal for me. Let me make a few comments. I support what has been said here, that you, fellow Members who are not entirely from within the health sector, listen very carefully to some of the voices of those who will tell you that you need to have a special field on your left eye and your right adrenal gland, because they really resist the voices of renowned professors who have helped you or perhaps your loved ones with something, it is sometimes very difficult, but I recommend here to always consult with the doctors. There aren't a lot of them here in the House, and I think they're actually all led by trying to do something about it. An example of practical medicine for children and adolescents, where their representatives apparently actually addressed everyone very carefully and explained to them that it would all collapse, and the parallel with field gynecologists and gynecologists in hospitals who still have one testimonial, although the system is different, is absolutely appropriate. And there's gonna be a lot of these disciplines, and there's gonna be more of them. I would like to express, as the petitioner, a great deal of sympathy for further discussion within the health committee on possible adjustments to the disciplines and other conditions that are in the law. We do not make a patent on the fact that we have managed to put everything in the proposal that would move the system forward, and we will be happy for further suggestions. I would very much like to support some of these things. What has been said here from the mouth of Professor Svoboda about strengthening the role of trainer, of increasing the individualisation of education, I feel that this is something that would be appropriate. I'm not quite sure if we're gonna be able to do this all over the gates of hospitals these days, when lawyers who are gonna throw themselves at any formal pretext, we're gonna be able to do it, but if we can do that, I'd very much like to support it. Even in recent weeks and months I have been very intensively communicating with the professional public, whether it be the Czech Medical Chamber, whether it be the Czech Society of Jan Evangelista Purkyně, whether they are representatives of universities, and I feel that we are also gradually reaching consensus there, because I consider it extremely important that the proposal that will eventually come out of the Health Committee should be discussed as a whole, because the idea that you will receive a hundred more emails, where it will explain that if there are not 100 other fields, it will turn out wrong, I fear that it would not be entirely good. I'm going to mention one more thing that is very closely related to this, which is not entirely in the direct gesture of the Ministry of Health and which we are discussing with our fellow Minister of Education, and that is the question, now that we are talking about the number of doctors, the number of graduates of medical faculties, when we look at the numbers available to us, and so far in the UHIS, we have data that we get from health insurance companies and hospital collections, so now, after the NHIS approval, we will finally have real numbers of how many doctors we have, but according to the data, there are some 40,000 medical tables in the system. This also has to do with the change that has happened in recent decades, the Labour Code, where the number of doctors is simply needed much higher than it was 20, 25 years ago, and according to these numbers we have 40,000 medical positions, and if I am not mistaken, the medical faculties produce us some 1,200 graduates every year, and what has been mentioned here is a significant part of Slovak physicians who are ready to return to Slovakia immediately after their studies or go further west. So I'm afraid we also have a discussion here that the number of graduates of medical faculties won't need to raise by 10 percent, but maybe twice, if we take 40,000 to turn around at some time, so this will also be quite a big problem, because the number of graduates has been built on completely different working standards and a completely different overtime work that we want to do in some way. And that's a bit of a side question. I want to thank you once again for the debate, thank you for the approach. I look forward to further work on the committee and I believe that we will have a consensual proposal that will have support and will help solve one of the major problems of Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-001-070.u43	Thank you, Minister. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the final words - which have already been de facto. I do not see the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal should be discussed in the Health Committee as a guarantee? Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 409 serial vote. 166 Members and Members are registered, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. [[16.40 hours]] There was a proposal to extend the period pursuant to § 91 para. 2 and 3 by 30 days. The rapporteur, Mr Kasal, suggested this. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of extending the deadline by 30 days to 90 days, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 410 vote. 166 Members and Members are enrolled, for 141, versus 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that the proposal has been directed to the Health Committee as a guarantee and we have extended the deadline to 90 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The Minister will save his seat, because our next item is
