ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u1	6. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Before taking the floor, I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. You have the Committee's resolution as House prints 504/1 to 3. I ask that Mr Václav Votava be the rapporteur at the rapporteur's table of the Guarantee Budget Committee, and I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič, who is the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, be prepared anyway. I now ask Mr. Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to present the press. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law on proof of the origin of the property. This is a legislative act that the government has set itself as one of its priorities. The aim of the bill is to adjust existing tax law mechanisms so that it is possible to identify the unpaid or withheld income of taxpayers from income taxes and subsequently to tax them. The bill contains an amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Criminal Code. The draft law will allow the tax administrator to call on the income tax payer to prove income, if there is a significant difference, the law sets a limit of at least 7 million. CZK, between the increase in the taxpayer's assets and its consumption or other issuance and income shown in the tax return. The payer is obliged to demonstrate that the property has been financed from income duly taxed or not subject to taxation. If the taxpayer fails to bear the burden of proof, the tax will be determined according to the aids. The tax base thus determined will be taxed at a standard income tax rate of 15 per cent or 19 per cent depending on the taxpayer's type and the taxpayer will also be obliged to pay a penalty of 50 per cent or 100 per cent of the fixed tax, depending on the cooperation provided. At the same time, the proposed proposal allows the tax administrator, after fulfilling the conditions laid down by law, to invite the taxpayer to submit a declaration of assets in order to ascertain detailed information on the state of his assets. Therefore, it is not a general obligation to provide a regular return on property. In the event that the taxpayer violates the obligation to make a true declaration of property, the threat of criminal prosecution for a criminal offence is exposed to a breach of the obligation to make a true declaration of property. Following this, it is proposed to increase the upper limit of the penalty rate of imprisonment for this crime from one year to three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš and ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets to inform us of the committee's discussion and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, have a good afternoon. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 37th meeting held on 16 March 2016 on the current government bill amending certain laws in relation to the proof of the origin of the assets, which is the House's 504. So we are at second reading. Following the opening words of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the rapporteur's report and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill amending the laws relating to the proof of the origin of the property, which is the House's press No. 504, approved the following legislative comments as amended: In part one, in the list of amendments to Act No. 586/1992 Coll. Other laws are added, namely Act No. 127/2005 Coll., et seq. Act No. 221/2015 Coll., et seq. Act No. 375/2015 Sb. and finally Act No. 377/2015 Coll. 2. It empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I am pleased to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I also ask the rapporteur of Mr Stanislav Grospič's constitutional legal committee to inform us of the discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee of its 58th meeting of 18 March 2016, which was issued to you under the House press 504/3, to the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of the property, press 504. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Finance JUDr. Alena Schillerová, report by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and after the debate by the Constitutional Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal, II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following amendments and additions to this bill: 1. In Part 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions shall apply: III shall read: III In Section 227 of Law No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, the words " cash penalty " are inserted after the words " up to one year."". 2. In Part Three of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following definitions This law shall take effect on the first day of the second calendar month following the date of its publication.". III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the examination of this draft law at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments - which I am doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Stanislav Grospič, and I am opening a general debate at second reading, for which there are four applications so far. The first enrollment is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, and a colleague Plíšek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice Prime Minister has mentioned that this amendment on proof of the origin of property is one of the priorities of this government. I don't know what the priority is when it's been sitting here for almost a year - it's arrived in the Chamber of Deputies 2. 6. 2015. Right from the very beginning, I must say that it is a mistake that the proposed amendment is not aimed at draining illegal property, but only at taxing unconfessed income. Property, its value and amount serve only as an auxiliary criterion. Allowing anyone illegally acquired property and, by virtue of its value, merely taxing unconfessed income essentially means legalising this illegally acquired property. The purpose of the amendment should therefore be to ensure that a person with reasonable suspicion that he had property which he could not obtain by legal means should have an obligation to prove his acquisition and, in the absence of such proof, to be ensured and whether, in the form of a penalty for the forfeiture of the property or taxation. The problem is to be solved comprehensively, but especially radically. If you recall this press here in the Chamber of Deputies on June 19, 2015, so also about a year ago, the President of the Republic Miloš Zeman also spoke. At the time he had three comments, this amendment concerned note number two. It was the penultimate comment, and the President said - I quote: "The second, the penultimate comment concerns the penalty rates that are mentioned in several variants. And I would very much like some of your amendments to be tightened up by these penalization rates, because I consider them too mild." End of quote from the President's speech here in the Chamber of Deputies on 19 June 2015. When we talked about the amendment in the Constitutional Legal Committee, I, as a non-economic, thought that the rates of 50 and 100 percent mentioned in the amendment were of the amount that was not proven. But as Mr. Vice Prime Minister was mentioned here, it is actually only 15, respectively. 19 per cent according to the tax entity. If we imagined that the difference between such property would be 5 miles. CZK - and let's say that 95 percent of the nation will never get to this, so this may concern - perhaps - a maximum of 5 percent of the people I personally do not respect - that tax at the lower rate will mark 750 thousand. Crowns. The remaining 4,250 thousand. You basically washed their crowns. I have proposed - and will sign up to the amendment in detail - four amendments. First: The amendment to submit a call for proof of income suggests a difference between income and an increase in assets by consumption or another issue by the taxpayer of a value of 7 million. Crowns. This is justified by the principle of officiality and by the fact that it is a government compromise. It also justifies this by not wasting the capacity of the tax administrator, in quotation marks, on less significant cases where potential tax reductions do not amount to such a high degree of social harm. If the concept of social harm is already used, it is appropriate to compare it with criminal law. The highest level of social harm there have cases where the damage exceeds 5 miles. Crowns. My amendment therefore proposes a reduction of this amount of 7 million. to the amount of 5 million. Crowns. And once again, 95 percent of the population of this country cannot do this, because they will never, ever have that kind of income. The second amendment is purely formal and I will not in any way justify it any more, because other terminology is used in criminal law than that mentioned in this proposal. The latter refers to Section 38zb - periodic penalty payments in determining the tax according to aids in a special way. The taxpayer is obliged to pay a penalty on the amount of the tax determined by the aid in a special way - the proposal says 50 per cent, my amendment says 80 per cent. This is for those who cooperate with the tax administration. For those who do not cooperate, 100 per cent is proposed if they do not provide synergies, I propose 160 per cent. Again, I note that one who does not cooperate and would be measured at a higher rate at 5 miles. the difference is less than 750 thousand. Crowns. I am proposing this amendment because, at the end of my police practice, I have been working on the task force to detect corruption and financial crime, and I have to say that it must simply never and never be paid off to anybody. This novel doesn't solve it yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u9	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Allow me to make two further apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr David Kádner, from 17:00 to the end of the working day for work reasons and from 14:00 to 15:00 to Mr Ivan Gabal. We continue with Mr Martin Plíšek's speech, Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the government sent this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies on 2 June last year, i.e. Before long, it will be the anniversary of this law. The government coalition is telling us something about the priority of negotiating the law, and reality, we see, is completely different. Unfortunately, I have spoken at first reading with a number of fundamental comments, and to this day they have not been answered, not even during discussions on the constitutional committee. That is why I would like to remind myself of the main thing now. Firstly, I would like to say that there is talk of a law on the proof of the origin of property, but in fact it is only an amendment to existing laws, i.e. It is a cluster of changes to the laws, which are, in some way, still very poor in quality. That's formal. From a content point of view, I would refer to the Government's Legislative Council's position. In addition to the additional assessment of the tax, it is also possible to grant a penalty of 50 per cent to the taxpayer, or, if it does not provide synergies with the Financial Authority, that penalty may be set at up to 100 per cent. This provision is also contrary to a certain finding of the Constitutional Court, which spoke of a winding-up sanction, but the Government's Legislative Council stated that the increase in penalty payments from 50 to 100 per cent is constitutionally unconstitutional if you want to be unconstitutional. [[14.50 hours]] That is why the Government's Legislative Council has proposed to the petitioner that only 50 per cent of sanctions be granted, as is common in other tax and other laws. The petitioner and, unfortunately, the government didn't respond. This is also an example of how the government approaches and takes the views of its own legislative board. So, as I have already mentioned, the Government Legislative Council considers this provision to be constitutionally unconstitutional. In her view, it is unconstitutional to force a taxpayer to cooperate in order to impose higher sanctions. This is also referred to by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore not possible to force the taxpayer to cooperate in the sense that the penalty of 100 per cent is applied once as much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u11	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing a subject other than the Government's draft law on the origin of the property and its proof, please be in the foyer. But colleagues, really... Well, thank you, go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in its decisions, referred to the institute as a financial penalty, which may be regarded as an accusation within the meaning of Article 6 (1) of the Treaty. 1 The Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms also refers to the relevant judgments and findings of the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. as a criminal penalty. I do not understand this, and in the history of executives it does not happen very often that the government, after its Legislative Council of Government has stated the unconstitutional nature of a provision, will approve this proposal in peace and send it here for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies. I will take another provision of this law, and that is the burden of proof that is passed from one hundred percent to the taxpayer. That means, the principle is that the state has to prove to someone that it has committed something unfair, some kind of infringement. And it turns out that someone has to prove that he has not committed an infringement. Even those deadlines within which the Financial Administration will be able to interfere from three to ten years, when we take this from the time limits for archiving tax or accounting documents, which need not be kept in addition and have persons who do not engage in business with us, do not have the right to retain such documents for long in this regard. So I'm wondering what the financial office is going to do with those non-business people. The law, which I have also formally described as a legislative punk in the past, works in this regard with different concepts. As the Financial Administration estimates the amount of assets or the amount of assets, it makes an estimate and so on. The concept of wealth is not known at all by the Income Tax Act, so it is possible to refer to the notion that it is thought of in the Civil Code, but it is not mentioned in this Act. By the way, they say it's the property bill. As I mentioned at the outset, the government has only adopted a few laws on taxes and charges and has made some changes to it. And this now shows that it is a law of proof of the origin of the property. I was talking about the 100% carry-over of the burden of proof. And then there's another provision that, luckily, he proposed to amend the Constitutional Committee. The Government's Legislative Council stated that it is very unsystemic and inappropriate that this law increases the criminal rate for an offence of false information in a declaration of property for three years, from one to three years, and does not, for example, count on a cash penalty that is far more effective in this matter. The Constitutional Committee therefore proposes a change in this law not to increase the penalty rate for the declaration of property. It could often be for formal misconduct from one to three years, which is completely meaningless criminalization. But he's suggesting that he just apply the cash penalty to forfeit the property and leave the rate for one year. That is why I think that this adjustment is worth approving at the third reading. Because the idea of someone making a mistake for formal reasons in a declaration of property and on this basis to be subject to a criminal rate of up to three years in prison is indeed disproportionate and inappropriate. In my opinion, the law does not really bring anything new. By the way, even today tax authorities, the Customs Administration, law enforcement authorities have a whole range of tools to prosecute the grey economy. We have a law against money laundering and all that. By the way, I would also like to mention and also comment on setting that seven million-dollar limit as a value of unregistered property, i.e. the difference between income and the relevant property. The seven-million-dollar border is said to have been created as some kind of license in a government coalition. And I'm just adding that given how long we've been discussing this law, the crooks, the crooks, the crooks, will be able to prepare themselves for the seven-million-dollar border. And I don't understand why such boundaries have been introduced there. That means they will have a great opportunity to circumvent this law. For example, this law does not address further speculation about property, such as when someone hides all their property in the object of their business, into their business. This law does not even affect when someone is doing business through foreign companies. So I would say that the real speculators, the big con artists, are not going to hit this law, and it will be based on giving and giving incentives from vigilant fellow citizens, such as neighbors or neighbors, entrepreneurs against other entrepreneurs in a competitive struggle, so there will be an attempt to criminalize them. And instead of punishing really great financial crime, the financial authorities will deal with individual claims and verify the property of often innocent people and honest taxpayers. So, as I mentioned, this law is completely unnecessary. He's supposed to punish and make suspiciously honest taxpayers. And those who walk around the law are smiling, and they're getting ready for it. I would not only for these reasons, but also for the constitutional reasons, as I mentioned in the light of the provisions relating to periodic penalty payments and other provisions, have taken the liberty, at the end of the hearing, to propose that this proposal be rejected at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I'll take note of your motion to dismiss. We will continue with the debate. In fact, Mr Jeroným Tejc is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the right should be clarified before further speeches follow, with its argument. Either the law doesn't solve anything, and the amounts that are set there will help nothing, and then there's no reason for you to resist it as you've put it for many years. Or the law is really so damaging according to what you're saying, and then the first part doesn't apply. I'm one of the long-term supporters of the law. We, as Social Democrats, presented a similar law in the opposition in September 2010. It's been set up, I admit, based on a little different parameters. However, I think it's legitimate. And if you look at different foreign adjustments, it's legitimate to choose either a tax or an administrative path. Or a criminal trip. And I think, in this sense, it is right that today we have a proposal on the table that can at least prevent most of the problems of non-payment of taxes as a precaution. Because if those who are to pay taxes are already required by law to pay taxes, today to know that the tax office can ask them how the difference between their income and expenditure arose, so it is a process that is standard, correct, and there is no reason to prevent it. [[15.00 hours]] I think it's typical that we're being criticized from the left, from the right. Some would like a tougher law, some would like a milder one, some wouldn't want one, that's what happens. I'll be glad if she passes the version that's on the table here today, because it's a crucial solution, and at the same time, its hardness is not enough to prevent her having a chance in this House and not taking anything, and that would be a real shame in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Tomio Okamura will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the proof of the origin of property is one of the most basic stones of financial administration in all Western democracies and should also be with us. Because it is an instrument not only for combating corruption but for all property crime. It's not a policy whip, it's a standard tool to combat crime. This law should make it extremely difficult for all criminals to use legitimate property that has been achieved in violation of the law. That should be the target. But unfortunately, the current government proposal is very close to this goal. I dare say that he is trying to avoid him to the maximum and the aim is to probably tell citizens that the stolen and stolen billions government seems to be dealing with, but in fact, what anyone has stolen can keep if they use gaps in the law or stolen property tax. It is quite clear that this government will no longer be able to prepare a better law, as elections are approaching. This is bad news for robbed citizens, but a little better news for us in opposition, as citizens will be given a choice in the elections whether to vote again for these government parties that promised the mountains, but did not do anything major, or to vote for change, and I say that our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD has a complete solution for property returns. So at this point, let me mention some of the techniques that make this government bill essentially toothless. The law is rightly based on our premise, i.e. that illegal money can also be penalized on the basis of current laws, i.e. the current obligation of each citizen and company to grant all income. This means that the tax administrator had a duty to monitor, among other things, the unsubstantiated increases in assets and to tax them, and, on the contrary, those who miraculously became rich and did not report income were continuously committing tax reductions, and the authorities were also supposed to give them tax and periodic penalty payments. Unfortunately, this was not in the interests of any political party, because various political exponents lived off theft, corruption and fraud. What is fundamentally wrong in the current bill is that if the biggest gangster proves that he has properly taxed his property, it is no longer essential from the point of view of tax laws whether the origin of such property is legal or not. While this question may be dealt with by law enforcement authorities, as we know from many cases in the past, if someone finds a plastic bag with money from Grandma under the bed, then nothing happens. Surprisingly, nothing happens in our Republic even when it is shown that someone has acquired property by fraud and even admits it. What we need is not the tax law, and therefore the legalization of black money, but their sanctions and seizure. If someone justifies the acquisition of property in the order of millions of crowns by finding Grandma's plastic, they should automatically lose undocumented property of such a larger extent. On the contrary, and this is for a longer debate, we should legalize the small incomes that poor people today have. Danit's scientific work, income in the thousands order, is nonsense. It's a burden to the system, and it doesn't bring anything, because people will be called. to work in black all the time. The aim is to punish the above-standard unwarranted income of criminals, not the laborers. How's the government proposal going? I would like to comment on some details which, of course, point to holes in the law. For example, in the declaration of property, the taxpayer is not obliged to state a moving thing whose value does not exceed CZK 100,000. In practice, this means that it is enough to invest black money in gold fragments, antiques, paintings, etc., whose price simply does not exceed the given limit, and we are out of control of the law. Here we should add that the obligation to report property also applies to movable items whose aggregate value exceeds a limit, perhaps in the order of units of millions. Another contested provision of the Act is the Institute of Taxation by means of aids in a special way. It contains a rule that the unsubstantiated income relates to the last tax period. Does this mean that it cannot be used for the entire past of the payer and therefore can we only tax what the payer has not admitted in the previous tax period? Furthermore, the introduction of the institute of taxation according to aids will apply in a special way where there is no evidence of an increase in assets and the estimated tax provided for by these aids exceeds CZK 2 million. For example, during 2016, the assets of a natural person will increase by CZK 11 million and the natural person will document the income of only CZK 1 million. Measured tax determined on the basis of aids in a special way out of an outstanding difference of CZK 10 million is CZK 1.5 million, i.e. 15% of the personal income tax rate, and the aid will not be used in a special way. The tax administrator will therefore proceed in a standard manner when measuring the tax, aids according to tax rules plus periodic penalty payments according to tax rules 20 percent of the tax measured. If the outstanding difference were to be CZK 20 million, the tax, measured according to special aids, would already exceed CZK 2 million, namely CZK 3 million, and this institute would be applied; a special penalty of 50 per cent of the tax could be imposed. Penalty of 100 per cent may only be applied if the person concerned does not cooperate with the administrator. It means that the law, in its essence, legalizes black revenues, only from the last few years. He doesn't touch the income of the older data anymore. And it is possible that even this mild form of law will be brought before the Constitutional Court, as parties openly defending corrupters may have to sue several aspects of this law under the pressure of their clients. Here it is only necessary to tighten sanctions for the existing obligation to tax any income. This means punishing 100 per cent of what has not been taxed in violation of existing legislation, and in the case of concealment of revenue in the past, it is necessary to use the instruments in force at that time, which, however, allow financial authorities to already have very hard penalties. Penalty, as far as we know, sometimes exceeds the amount that is owed multiple times, and all it takes is to impose the law on the authorities to make the most of this penalty in the given cases. The law, as has been said before, does not address the securities to the owner. Why? Is that a signal for thieves to deposit their property in their securities? Despite the name and terminology, the aim of the bill is not to reveal and seize illegal property, but - in quotation marks - only to tax it. This form of law did not bring a penny in comparable countries. That doesn't prove there's no black money, but the fact that you buy black income legalization with money. It is therefore necessary to tighten up the law on money laundering, which should be subject to black money, and to consider the Austrian model, which, in our case, I would call a tax on unconfirmed wealth. This means that at the moment the property reaches a certain amount, it is subject automatically, not selectively, or to a special tax. For people who are reaching some amount of undocumented property, I would propose taxation, for example, between 75 and 100 percent, with the fact that the basis for the amount of tax could be reduced by specific items. Which is evidenceable revenue. As in Poland, these revenues could be demonstrated not only by accounting, but by any means whose relevance, at first stage, will be considered by the financial authority and, in the event of a dispute, by the court, as is the case in Poland. For the record, this isn't about retroactivity. The tax will be gross of the currently large assets, with the possibility that, if the taxpayer wishes, he may apply deductible items such as documented or anticipated income, inheritance and the like. The law will not impose any obligation on him to prove anything. Finally, let me say that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD will support this government bill, because at least something is better than nothing. But I openly share the view that the existing bill does not address the stolen property in any way, but merely puts a fat line behind the past and legalizes the stolen property. Which is directly against the meaning of what the public really wants and our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, now Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u18	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I would just like to draw attention to the House Press, which is under discussion, number 753, and which is currently addressing the question of how to rid the illegally acquired property of those who have acquired it either by crime or in connection with criminal activity, and have even transferred it to a person close to or another person who might or should have known that it was such acquired property. So it is not true, as some previous speakers said here, that this law only deals with one side of the matter and we resigned to the others. If you look into the legislative process, or more thoroughly and more precisely at the legislative process, you will find this press 753, which is dealing with this issue. So I just want to point out that we really shouldn't forget other laws that solve the issue that we're criticizing here, like it's not addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u19	Thank you, too. And now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Marek Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by saying that Dawn supports the principles of the law on the proof of the origin of property. However, we believe that he has one major flaw. In fact, if property returns are valid, for example, from the beginning of next year, all crimes of the past are effectively legalized. We could never review the cases of past governments or tunneling. But we refuse to sweep things under the carpet, and we want to hit hard the money obtained by criminal activity. Dawn responds to this proposal by calling on the President, who has warned here in the Chamber of Deputies that past violations of the law should not be excluded from review, and in practice only a kind of thick line behind the past would be made. The law can't say that stealing isn't supposed to happen until the date it's valid. In the words of the President, the principle of "what you stole is yours, but you can't steal anymore" cannot apply. That is why we are proposing an amendment today for the Dawn Club to significantly tighten up this law. We propose that illegal property can be controlled even 25 years ago. In the Czech Republic, many tunnellers, cheaters, who do not respond to this law are now licking their money. I repeat: tax evasion and past fraud cannot be legalized by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u21	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I refer to the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur. It's not like that. Okay. I am opening a detailed debate in which I am registering two applications. Mr Ondráček will be the first to speak, Mr Černoch will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My amendment, which I have justified, is conducted in the system as House document 4203. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u23	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u24	Thank you. I hereby sign up for our parliamentary club for an amendment under the number of House document 4190. As I said in the general debate, this is an opportunity to control illegal property even 25 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u25	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Mr. Plíšek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u26	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in a detailed debate, I am signing up for my motion to reject this proposal at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-001-006.u27	Yes, thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. The rapporteur or the minister? You don't want final words. Okay, thank you. No further proposal has been made, and I end the second reading of this bill. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
