ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a draft agenda for the 47th meeting on Thursday, May 12, and the invitation was sent to you on Friday, May 13th. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr. Tejc votes with card number 3. We shall proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Václav Klučka. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. If that is not the case, we will vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the verifiers of this meeting should be Mr Beznoska and Mr Klučka. Who's against it? The vote has number 1, registered is 106, for 95, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated Mr. Beznoska and Mr. Klučka's lords for the 47th meeting. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence: Mr Adam - personal reasons, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - working reasons, Mr Černoch from 17.00 - working reasons, Mr Fiala - without reason, Mrs Havlová 16.00 to 23.30 - working reasons, Mr Heger - working reasons, Mr Horáček until 16.00 - health reasons, Mrs Chalánková - working reasons, Vice-President Jermanová - working reasons, Mrs Maxová by 14-45 - health reasons, Mr Nykl - health reasons, Mr Snopek - foreign travel, Mr Šidlo - personal reasons. I have an apology from the members of the government here from the Minister of Finance, but he is present. Okay, later, for work reasons. He's here for now. Minister Jurečka - personal reasons, Minister Marksová - foreign travel, Minister Stropnický - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek until 17:00 - foreign travel. So many apologies. Mrs Strnadlová has card 16, Mr Birke has card 17, Mr Okleštěk has card 20. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Now, as part of the 47th meeting, I would like to inform you first of the proposals agreed by today's political grémium. We propose the following: that we discuss paragraph 202 as the first item on 24 May today... Colleagues, colleagues, but I'm asking for peace. Please settle down. So, as the first item today, paragraph 202 - Request of the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. And then we would discuss points 1 to 4 and then we would include and discuss a new point, a point entitled Motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies to talk about proposals to amend the approved agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which is document 4381. On Wednesday, May 25, we would start the meeting day with paragraph 150, which is the third reading of the press 508, health protection, and we would be the first two points after lunch to place points 203 and 204, which is the control of financial reports and the addition of financial reports, documents 4363 and 4364. On Thursday, June 2 at 11 p.m., point 225, which is the report on the activities of the GTC for 2015. It's all from my side as a grémia proposal. I now have Prime Minister Kováčik's priority right here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to greet you as cordially as I can on the occasion of the opening of this meeting and wish you a successful course as we all imagine. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] At the same time, allow me to ask you to include a new point in this House of Deputies meeting. The item is called the Government Report to address the situation in mining with regard to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u3	Mr President, I am sorry, but I am asking for peace in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to be safe, I'm gonna read one more time so everyone can really hear and have a chance to think seriously. The item would be called the Government Report to address the situation in mining, taking into account developments in the Ostrava-Carvin mines. On this point, I would like to point out that in 1998 the then Member, member of the KSČM club Jaroslav Gongol, the older of you and those from the Moravian-Silesian region, knew former colleague Gongol as an important factor in mining, a long-standing director downstairs. A person who, as few people, knew the situation in the locality, the region and the profession. And even then, in his speech here in the Chamber of Deputies, he drew attention to the imminent risks and the imminent dangers and possible impacts that may arise in connection with mining, its downturn, the transfer and the owner who was in progress at the time. At that time, Minister Dlouhý, I believe, was called a naughty MP, a naughty child. And it's been almost 20 years, and after nearly 20 years, exactly 18 years, the situation is coming up, which almost confirms the speech you can find in the screen record. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Communist Members repeatedly ask -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u5	I once again and for the third time ask the House for peace. If anyone wants to discuss it, please outside the boardroom. And that goes for the presidents of the two strongest clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't worry, I won't start my proposal for the third time because those who wanted to hear, heard. Anyone who didn't want to hear will not listen, even if it's as quiet as a church, as they say. The point is that the Communist Members and Members do not come up with this proposal for the first time and do not come up with it as a solution or a discovery situation just because elections are now approaching in the Moravian-Silesian region. My somewhat longer introduction than I have in my habit was precisely to promote jobs, maintain them, support for dignified life is our long-term and long-term program, regardless of choice. Furthermore, we believe that the situation does not concern and cannot concern only OKD. Let us just remember, or let us reflect only the situation that may arise in the north of Bohemia in connection with the failure to break the limits. In connection with the mining of profitable stocks, where a situation may again occur very similar to that in the OKD. And the employees who are there, as well as employees in OKD, are either due to age or due to wear or due to specialized profession very difficult to apply in other, substitute branches, in another, substitute solution. [[14.10 hours]] The solution, at least that's how we see it in KSČM, is to try to keep the jobs, try to develop the jobs, try to insure their long-term existence. Because it is not, indeed, the duty of the state to help private firms, but it is the duty of the state to take care of its citizens so that they do not lose their jobs for no reason. We want her to stay there for those people's jobs. We want their families to have the means to live right now in this situation. In the last few days and hours, the situation has been resolved in some way. We've all heard that certain financial groups or financiers have shown interest. At this point, I can say that it doesn't matter who comes up with the help, who comes up with some sort of rescue plan to keep the jobs there. Anyone who tries and tries not to feed, not suck at the situation, not profit from the situation, but in the situation, has our appreciation. I would like to mention in this context that, if not for strong unions, I must thank the mining unions and their representatives, if not for strong unions, the public is far from being so well informed about this situation. And I must say that, while many people question the very existence of unions or the reason for union membership at all, it is precisely in such a situation, in a marginal situation where security is threatened, and those fundamental certaintys, it makes sense to be in unions, to engage in trade unions, and it makes sense to try to exert a concentrated pressure through trade union organisation to deal with such crisis situations. Ma'am and gentlemen, maybe you haven't felt what existential fear is yet on your own. Those people right now in the OKD, but then also the others, formerly classified as Category One, feel that right on their skin. To those of you who have listened to me, what I am saying to you here, even to those of you who will vote in favour, I thank you, and I ask that we really take this situation seriously. Given the seriousness, I suggest that this point be placed on tomorrow's day as the first point after the fixed points of the afternoon. In the event that there is not enough will to deal with the serious situation in mining, I note that we will do everything we can to bring it to this subject, not just to the OKD, but in general - we do not want to put employees of individual disciplines and sectors against each other, because there are a number of other workers at risk - we will do everything we can to bring an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Just a few more details. Mrs Putnová - card number 54, Mr Laudát apologises today from 14-45 to 17.00, then Mr Fiedler apologises from 14.00 to 15.00 and Mr Komárek from 17.15 to the end of the negotiations. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Now with priority rights, Mr. President of the Dawn Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to join a similar proposal, as the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club presented, on the inclusion of a new item entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the procedure for disadvantageous privatisation of OKD. We would suggest this point, even in agreement with the members of the other clubs, that we would place it next Thursday after discussing the item of the Ombudsman Šabatová. Ostrava-Carvin mines are now found in insolvency. They're about to go bust. In the Moravian-Silesian Region, work for more than 10,000 jobs in the OKD itself and, according to the estimates, trade unions for another 20,000 people in the downstream sectors are in real danger. The point is, however, that this imminent collapse of the Moravian-Silesian region is the result of a rip-off called privatization of OKD. Facts. For the purposes of privatisation, OKD was only valued at 4,5 billion in 2004. Kč. Ernst & Young's expert opinion subsequently found the value of OKD net assets on 31 December 2005 at 52 million. CZK, of which only non-operating activity, such as housing fund, commercial real estate, financial assets, consists of over 22 billion. Kč. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the 44,000 mining apartments in Havířov, Ostrava and Karviné very well. However, as part of the privatisation, around 20 subsidiaries of OKD were sold, the vast majority of which were not appreciated at all for the calculation of the privatisation, and they handed them over to Mr Bakal for free. It goes for example. about other mining flats in Kladno or OKD Transport, which at the time of privatisation was practically the largest private railway carrier in the country and whose market value was about 1 billion. Kč. The new owners appreciated the unappreciated subsidiaries from two expert institutes and the reports showed that the value of the companies was 12 billion. Kč. One of them, Cokehouses OK, e.g. Zdeněk Bakala sold more than 2.5 billion. Other assets sold free of charge from the State include e.g. Mining hospital in Karviná or hotels in Prague, Frýdek-Místek and Petrovice near Karviná, which Bakalova group sold for almost 150 miles in total. Kč. I was with my colleague Olga Havlová at Paskov mine last Thursday, where we talked to the miners, talked to the management, and the discussion we had there showed that 200 miles would be enough to bridge the current crisis. CZK, which is only a fraction compared to the huge billion dollars. 200 miles. CZK, so that Paskov mine according to the economic balance sheet is able to survive. Everyone in this country is clear that OKD is one of the biggest thieves and tunnels that have ever been here. And if we say "A" and it says "let's solve OKD," then we should really deal with it, not just let it happen. Therefore, I would ask you and ask you to support this extraordinary point so that whoever is responsible is clearly named. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else is applying with priority rights. That's right. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u10	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to propose the inclusion of a new point, which would be called the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the planned granting of a market status to China. If a moment ago two of my previous speakers spoke of a difficult situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region regarding OKD or failing OKD, I would say that there is an even greater threat for our region, and that is possible to grant this status to China. I want to remind you that the three largest metallurgical companies in my electoral region had a turnover of about 80 billion. CZK, they employ approximately 15,000 employees directly. Then, of course, there are a number of supply companies, as well as a number of small businessmen and businessmen - If the left isn't enjoying it, Mr. Chairman, try to keep me calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u11	For the fourth time. I ask all those discussing to move outside the meeting room. And if it doesn't help, I'll summon them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The problem is really serious. Many in the Czech Republic have been dealing with this problem for a long time. I would like to remind you that colleagues in the European Parliament voted on this last week or the week before last. The vast majority of Czech MEPs refused to grant the status of the market economy to China. I want to read you the motion for a resolution to equip the Prime Minister and members of our government: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic does not agree with the planned granting of a market status to China due to negative impacts on the Czech industry. The Chamber of Deputies stresses that China is not a market economy and that it has not yet met five criteria by which the European Union defines a market economy. The Chamber of Deputies believes that until China meets all the criteria of the European Union on the basis of which it can be regarded as a market economy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u13	Okay. So I ask Mr Benešík, Mr Černoch, Mrs Kovářová and others to keep them quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u14	... the European Union should fully apply its anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures against imports from China. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies stresses the urgent need to reform overall the European Union's instrument for trade protection in order to ensure equal conditions for industry in Europe in relation to China and other trading partners, in full compliance with World Trade Organisation rules. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister and the members of the Government to act in accordance with the contents of this resolution and defend the interests of the Czech industry at the meetings of the European Council, the Council of the European Union. I would like to recall that the most anti-dumping measures and investigations are being applied to China. I would like to remind you that the United States protects its market for Chinese products in this sector much more than European countries. And just for the record, I'm going to read you some of the measures that help their producers in the metallurgical industry or steel industry in China. They have government and regional five-year-olds - many of us still remember that, they have subsidised loans, stock market interventions, tax breaks, they have lax work safety rules, the government carries out monetary interventions, they subsidize transport, they don't find negative impacts on the environment, they subsidize input raw materials, they subsidize electricity, they give them land for free. And it all creates a discriminatory environment for our companies and our industry. We as citizens' democrats are always in favour of a competitive duel, but within fair conditions. And if the other side of trade subsidizes its sectors in such a significant way, then we must defend ourselves. And I call on the government to consistently defend the interests of the Czech industry, or if it passes, in a few months or a few years' time, government delegations will be going back to the Moravian-Silesian region, developing crisis plans and non-standard solutions. Today we can still intervene, today is still the time. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u15	Mr Laudát will be the next speaker with priority rights. Mr Huml - card number 68. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I believe that we should discuss the matter of the Moravian-Silesian Region together, so I am putting forward a procedural proposal that the OKD point that has been raised here and that Stanjura's proposal should be put together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u17	A colleague of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u18	First, clarification. I propose the point I justified tomorrow afternoon after the fixed points. And for myself, I insist that this point be separate, that we vote separately on it. It is nothing against the proposal that has been made, and I will personally support it, but I do not think that we should combine the debate to one point. Although it concerns one region or mostly one region, the impact would not be just on the Moravian-Silesian region. The problem could also occur in the chemical industry, in the ceramic industry and in other sectors. So I apologize to my colleague, Mr Laudát, but I insist that we vote on this separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u19	Okay. It's also designed for other terms. My colleague Laudát agrees with this, does not apply any other proposals. Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to President Stanjura's speech. I would like to say that the President is breaking into an open door. The Czech Government is aware of the risks posed by the granting of the status of the market economy to China. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has processed material that will be discussed by the government in the near future, discuss tripartite. We're really gonna deal with this. We are asking the European Commission to process the impact study, so that we know what the risks are, and we will look for solutions. According to preliminary research, yes, it's a serious problem. It's two branches that are at risk - it's a steel industry, it's a ceramic industry, about four to five thousand people. So, in order for the government to take this seriously, and I assume tripartite, it is not entirely necessary to clarify the House, because the government is aware of the depth of the problem. But, of course, if the House, as a sovereign, decides that the government should deal with it, have some attitudes, then yes, of course it can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u21	Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u22	I would like to assure the Minister if he listened well, there was no word of criticism of the government. This was not a critical speech towards the government, but I think it is good to have the position of the Czech Parliament if this issue is addressed at European level. So the fact that you're taking the steps you're talking about is definitely a good thing. There you will have our support or you will have our support. I also said that many people have been dealing with this for a long time. But because this was discussed a few days ago in the European Parliament, that resolution turned out well in my view, so I see no reason not to have our Parliament dealt with this and to have a strong mandate for the government. I am convinced that the vast majority of us understand what an unfair competition is and that we cannot succeed in such a fight. According to a study done by Američan, the European market, Europe's most Central European market, and, directly or indirectly, according to the options that this status would be, 50 to 100,000 jobs in the Czech Republic can be put at risk. And I think it's worth it to agree on that and to equip our government with such a strong resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u23	If there are no other preferential rights, we will proceed according to written applications. Mr Okamura and Mr Koníček will appear first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to include on the agenda a point entitled Referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union and a referendum on the reception or non-acceptance of migrants from Islamic countries. I know that the majority of Members in this House do not consider these points important because, four times in the last year, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, has tried to enforce these points and you have always rejected our referendum. Nevertheless, I will try again to propose these points today. During our first proposal last June, only Members of our movement voted in favour of this proposal, but last month on our last proposal, it was already 44 Members of this House. And I will tell you why I will try to redesign this proposal and why history is telling me the truth. Over 2000 years ago, the expansion of Carthage threatened the Roman Republic. Over the centuries, Carthage has sneaked into northern Africa, Cyprus, Sardinia, Corsica, and Balearic Islands, regions in Crete and Sicily, and has begun subjugating the Iberian Peninsula. From time to time, the Říman defeated the Phoenicians of Féničan in some war, but one thing was certain - the Féničan' empire slowly surrounded the Mediterranean Sea, and only a few Roman politicians then realized that it was a deadly grip that Rome could destroy. One of the few politicians who realized that was Senator Cato Senior. Although he saw that no one perceived his warning against Kartáginec, he did not give up and his speeches in the Roman Senate, whatever they were on, ended with the words: Carthagin esse delendam. Carthage must be destroyed. Carthage was finally destroyed, but a few centuries later another enemy slowly began to occupy the Arabian Peninsula, then conquered North Africa, Asia Minor, and racked the Iberian Peninsula. Rome has lost control and, above all, its trade in the Mediterranean and has fallen. The Germán or Slovan aren't behind the fall of Rome, they just arrived the lion on their knees. On the knees of Rome, the barbarian Arab conquerors, to whom Rome had retreated for so long, fell. We, the Czech Republic, today have a double choice - like the Roman Republic, to defend and survive the invasion, or as a decadent and insolvency Roman empire to retreat and blend with barbarians until we disappear from the surface of the earth like the ancient Říman. [[14.30 hours]] The European Union has embarked on a path of concessions and today only addresses the possibility of Muslims from Daesh occupying us in the context of illegal migration, or the Turek legally through the opening of borders to Turkish Islamists, with visa-free contact already agreed by the European Commission, headed by the Sobotkův Government. The Czech Republic must make it clear to the European Union that if it intends to continue to support the invasion of Muslims into Europe, then the Czech Republic has no place in such a association. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to place the first item on the agenda for Tuesday next week on the adoption of the European Union referendum law and the referendum on the reception or non-acceptance of migrants from Islamic countries, while - as you know - our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement of the SPD promotes zero tolerance for illegal and Islamic migration to the Czech Republic, and we also advocate the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union as the only real option of addressing the long-term crisis of the European Union and preserving our national sovereignty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u25	Mr Koníček, please, and Vice-President Filip will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point, namely the participation of ministers in the consultations. When I read the Rules of Procedure, I found it actually quite simple. The Rules of Procedure in Section 55 state: If the House decides to do so, a member of the Government is obliged to attend the House meeting in person. A v § 46 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (d) what the relevant Organising Committee states - I quote from the Rules of Procedure - is to recommend to the President of the House that the House submit a motion for a resolution on the duty of a member of the Government to attend a meeting of the House in person. I therefore call for the organisation committee to deal with the situation tomorrow and, if necessary, recommend further action under our Rules of Procedure to the President of the House. If the President promises that the committee will actually deal with this tomorrow, I will not insist on voting on this point and, if necessary, submit it during the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. I beg Vice-President Filip and Mr Černý after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me to propose and briefly justify a new item on the agenda of our meeting, which I would call the Information of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, on the mandate of Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the so-called Sudeton German days. If I have read the Prime Minister's interview well in the Rule of Law, he said that we need allies in the future to cope with the risks facing Europe. I would therefore like to remind the Prime Minister that, in that case, a partner of the Czech Government, a partner of the Czech Republic as a sovereign state, albeit with shared sovereignty in the European Union, can only be another sovereign state. It is not clear from the text whether the Prime Minister thought that this ally should be a kind of association, whatever it is called, which is registered as a regional association covering civil communities at a level comparable perhaps to our community owners of housing units. And I also strongly disagree with his performance, where he says that they are perhaps not the tombstones of the German Nazis. I note that it is generally known that the largest number of members in Witikobund has a very brown past, according to the public statements of the competent federal authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany. If the Prime Minister claims that Landsmanšaft has removed property requirements from the statutes, I would like to point out to him that in June 2015, the Munich Administrative Court had already called it invalid. I understand that the Association has appealed for this ongoing trial. I would remind you that the statutes of this association govern the rights and obligations of members, their requirements being anchored by the programme. And this program, which was renovated in the last nineties, once again confirmed in the so-called future view that the fate of the Sudeten Němec - I apologize to all historians and experts of this problem, that I use this phrase, which is in a way contrary to the Czech legal order in the Czech Republic - their territory can only be decided with their express consent. And this explicit consent concerns all territories according to the census of the Czechoslovak people of 1930, when these territories included 3 338 municipalities. And if I were to bring my colleagues or colleagues closer to what territory it is, it is the whole territory that lost the former Czechoslovakia after the Munich dictatorship, which according to Czech law is a zero act. In this respect, then, I have no choice but to ask - not through the media, but through an open speech - the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to tell me what led him to meet the Minister of the Czech Government, a sovereign state, with a civil association beyond our borders, which has not ceased to have territorial requirements for the Czech state. I believe that such a step is contrary not only to the Czech rule of law, but especially to the promise of a constitutional official of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic. In this respect, of course, I would like to know whether this is in the interests of the Czech Republic or recording that we would lose more than a thousand kilometers of land of our own again. Let me make one more comment. I would like to know if the government has discussed this and to what extent, and how the mandate was given, because I do not know that Minister Herman met with those who were expelled from the Czechoslovak border in 1938 or died in the concentration camps of Fascist Germany. This is information that I not only require, but with me indeed thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic, especially from our South Bohemia border, and not just there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u29	I beg Mr Černý and Mrs Němcová will speak after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u30	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to ask you to support my proposal for a solid inclusion of paragraph 216, House press 695, which is the Government's decision on flights and transits of armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2016. The government's decision is a matter that we usually discuss ex post here, we take it strictly as a routine matter, a technique that we don't pay too much attention to. Now and then, however, there will be such transits or such stays related to that which go beyond such a normal framework of technical transit, mandatory matters. One such will take place in the next few days. The government decided after the general standard in mid-December, since mid-January we have the House Press at our disposal, on 3 February we discussed it in the Defence Committee, and since then I have expected that the Minister or someone from the government coalition will take the initiative to present the House with quite a crucial point in time. The end of the first semester is slowly approaching, and we still haven't dealt with the material. Therefore, I beg you to support the proposal to place this point on Wednesday, that is for tomorrow, May 25, next in the standings of the firm, I do not know how many times it will be, but the next, because then it will be too late. After that, all we'll get is information. [[14.40 hours]] I would just like to point out that the Constitution of the Czech Republic in Article 43 is an article that has been discussed for a long time, in vain so far, where it is directly assumed that Parliament can not only comment on such government proposals, but that it may even have to be abolished. Of course, disturbing something ex post doesn't make much sense anymore, makes sense. Therefore, I beg you to support the firm inclusion of this press for tomorrow after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u31	Mr. Ambassador, with your approval, it would be after the third reading block. And there's two more points of grémia, so after them, like the third point of the afternoon? [[Emissary Black agrees.]] Thank you. Mrs Němcová and Mr Vilímec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u32	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I come before the House of Honor with a proposal to place a new point on the agenda for this meeting. It also concerns the interpelations, as my colleague koníček spoke of them a while ago, but my proposal is formulated a little differently. I am based on the experience I had at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the last time on May 5 this year during the regular Thursday was both written and oral interpelation. Those written, if you recall, were not one of the interpelled ministers on Thursday morning, so two hours defined between 9 and 11 p.m. were completely wasted. At those afternoon meetings, the minister was grieving and criticized by the participants of oral interventions for several times and several times, we called on the Prime Minister to arrange some sort of order. In response to my question at these interventions, both with the participation of ministers in discussing these two points, both written and oral, the Prime Minister will reply that he had some statistics drawn up by the ministers' participation, a table which - if I quote him accurately, tells me in the interview: "I have had statistics processed, an overview of government members' participation in these interventions. The table was published, I sent it out into a commentary procedure so that all the members of the government could comment on it. And as soon as I have an opinion from all the members of the government, I will put it at the government meeting and it will be part of the government's agenda and I will want to talk to the ministers about their participation." That's the first thing I'd like to ask if I could ask, or I could ask, within the framework of oral interventions, such as this Thursday, but the Prime Minister is not going to give me any more extensive information. We are limited to some time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure Act. And I would like the Prime Minister to make it clear to us how he discussed the statistics he had developed in the government, so that we, the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, and through us the public who is monitoring these interventions, were clear whether it was a complete waste of time for her and should no longer look at it and not expect anything at all, or whether the Prime Minister is going to make at least an elementary order on his team. That was the first part of the answer. In the second part, I asked the Prime Minister whether - although he was thinking of these oral interventions, he is quite regular, I do not want to accuse him of not staying here, but if he himself does not set a bad example to the members of his government for the results of the Chamber of Deputies' meetings, which are embodied in individual resolutions. I have set an example of our resolution on the migration crisis, which is dated 22 March this year, which, if you remember, we have adopted a resolution on rejecting the preferential visa mechanism for Turkey. The Prime Minister for my... complete... disgust - I seek a word, but disgust - replied that he would actually like to follow the recommendation of the Chamber of Deputies, but unfortunately we came late, the Council has already adopted its position and the House has, as it were, overslept. Once again, I will quote the Prime Minister in relation to this resolution. I quote: And just for the record, I would also like to remind you that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was adopted only ex post after the European Council adopted its conclusion. You did not accept this resolution before the European Council, you accepted it ex post, so that it could not be taken into account when performing the Czech Republic. It seems to me an incredible answer from the Prime Minister's mouth, who first had to know that even before the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution on 17 and 18 March on that 22 March of this year - this was the European Council in Brussels. We then, that is true, adopted a resolution on 22 March. But even before us on March 17th, the day the Prime Minister left for these meetings, the Committee on European Affairs met. And if you don't mind, I would like to quote from this resolution: the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, 48th meeting on 17 March 2016. At the second point, it calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to reject the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. So the Prime Minister knew that one of the important bodies of the Chamber of Deputies had discussed this. He knew what resolution that authority had adopted. He went to Brussels with this resolution, but he pretended not to know about it. He pretended he didn't exist at all. And when we are immediately afterwards, which was almost a miracle, because when you remember how difficult it is to argue that the House could even take a stand on the migration crisis, we managed to adopt a resolution that we reject on 22 March, that is to say 17, 18, when the Prime Minister was sitting in Brussels. The Prime Minister tells me that unfortunately we are unlucky because we have come up with this ex post and the government could not take this position into account in its negotiations in Brussels. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that he would like to look for such unacceptable and evasive answers and excuses for me, so I would like to remind him of a resolution that is more than a year old on this issue. It's from February 12, 2015. And in this resolution, the Chamber of Deputies, and I will remind you that 155 votes have been adopted, on the second hand, calls on the Government to keep the House informed of the positions that the government will advocate at all foreign negotiations dealing with security and migration policy. So Prime Minister, you didn't even need to tell me something that we accepted an ex-post. It was your duty to take the initiative to ask for the House's opinion, to ask for a mandate, which you will then go to Brussels with. Regardless, on such a serious matter, when you are skewing like a hare, just after your adoption in Brussels, you approved these conclusions of the European Council and you said that the negotiations with Turkey were correct and that this is how it should be. When you experience a reaction not only from other European countries, but also from within the Czech Republic, you swerve and say that we are not really much for these measures in relation to Turkey. I say this because I think it is necessary to include it in our agenda so that we can finally make it clear what the government intends to do or does not intend to do. I want us to include a new item entitled Participation of members of the Government in the discussion of written and oral interventions and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on resolutions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I think I have justified enough why it is important to discuss this. Because I don't think the Prime Minister, the first man of the government, is supposed to be playing hide-and-seek games with us. I think it is right for him to inform the government as required by the resolution adopted by the House, and he is not yet doing so. I propose to include this point either today, or on 24 May, following the firmly-placed points on which the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies agreed. Or, second, Thursday 26th. 5. at 11 o'clock, i.e. after the completion of written interviews, or third on Tuesday next week, 31. 5. as the first point of our action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Vilímec, and Mrs Hnyková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose, as one of the proponents of the House Press 403, this is an amendment to the Act on the mitigation of property grievances for the citizens of the Czech Republic for the real estate they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatian Russians, the exclusion of the second and third reading of this press from the agenda of this meeting. For second reading, this is point 29 and for third reading it is point 189 of the proposed programme. The reason for this request, rather an unusual request, is to interrupt the discussion of this press both in the Committee on Guarantee Budget and in the Committee on Constitutional Law. At the same time, the time limits for the submission of amendments in these committees have been extended. The aim is a responsible assessment of the comments of the ministries not only on the draft law itself, but also on the proposed amendments. As far as possible, these comments are of interest to the petitioner, and for this reason, the discussion of this press in the committees has been suspended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. I beg Mrs Hnyková and Mr Martin Lank will speak after her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I propose, first of all, to discuss item 98, House press 621, the European Union immigration quota referendum bill proposed by our Dawn MEP. I propose that we discuss this point today after the fixed points, and I would like to ask you for his support. The quotas are considered inadmissible and rejected by most Czech citizens, and we hear it from our citizens at all the meetings we hold in the regions. This is not just a one-time redistribution, within which the Czech government accepted the adoption of the first three thousand illegal immigrants. It is a separate national sovereignty. The highest decision-making power on asylum is to be taken over by the so-called Asylum Support Office. As it follows from its name, the aim is not to regulate asylum but to support it. Prime Minister Sobotka said that the Czech Republic will resist permanent quotas in every way. You could easily confuse those words with his words from the autumn of last year when he claimed that the Czech Republic would use all the possibilities to reject the one-off quotas at the time. But he said them only shortly before he deliberately got overruled by the Council of Europe and thus cheated the whole Czech Republic. We want to hold a referendum following the example of Hungary. This would give any Czech government an irrefutable order to reject quotas and to bring an action before the European Court of Justice. We know very well that it is precisely this mandate that the Sobotkův government does not want from its citizens because it would not allow it to continue collaborating with Brusel. That is all the more important to implement this referendum, because it is the only chance to protect Czech citizens from the Brussels quotas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u37	Thank you and please Mr Martin Lank, Mr Kádner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u38	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. Today, on behalf of the Dawn, let me ask again for the nomination of our bill on referendum, where the citizens of the Czech Republic should have the right to decide on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union. Unlike Mr Okamura, we have the relevant law prepared for this referendum and it has also been voted on for the last time. I'm sure Mr. Okamura just assumed it by mistake. For the record, this is the proposal tabled by the Dawn - the National Coalition. This is point 97, House press 620. On behalf of our club, I ask for his firm inclusion as the third point today after the President's veto has been discussed on the subject of the School Act and after discussing our proposal to stop the unthinkable inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a referendum for withdrawal from the European Union has been in the House for almost half a year and the government coalition is blocking its discussion. When, in the last House, it was finally time for the so-called opposition window and we asked to discuss this proposal, I dare say that the negotiations were deliberately drawn up so that the Dawn proposal would not be discussed, and finally, the House's negotiations were eliminated through our protests, which was quite an unprecedented step. Ladies and gentlemen, Brussels is forcing us to have visa-free relations with the Turek, and we are looking at what success it is that a member country will be able to ask Brusel for an exemption. The Interior Minister Milan Chovanec said that the so-called suspension mechanism should be triggered, for example, when citizens of a country came to the European Union in large numbers, asked for asylum, committed criminal activity in significant numbers and so on. The European Union member country will thus be able, with its reasons, to contact the European Commission, which will have to submit a decision to all the states of the 28th, and they will all have to approve it. However, what does the suspension mechanism really mean? It is nothing more than another competence of Brussels, another weapon of bureaucratic elites of Brussels, which limits our country's sovereignty. The citizens of the Czech Republic clearly do not want to accept illegal immigrants and do not want Turkey, who is actively trading with the Islamic State, to have visa-free access to the Czech Republic. I realize that unfortunately, many of you want to stay at all costs due to subsidies and functions in the European Union. Nevertheless, I will try to explain to you why it is good to be prepared for the option of leaving the European Union. He who fears and retreats loses. They have already understood this principle in the UK, where they have put the option of leaving the European Union in the form of a referendum on the table and are clearly getting on it. The proof is that Britain has already negotiated substantial concessions. On the subject of the so-called czexite, Pavel Kohout wrote a very interesting analysis of the macroeconomics, including two parliamentary periods being a member of the National Economic Council of the Government. It was based on the fact that he personally participated in a simulation of the negotiations on the exit of the island kingdom from the European Union organised by the prestigious Open Europe organization. And what was the result? Definite and brutal. Brussels will take revenge after Britain leaves the European Union. It will want to show that there is no prosperity outside the European Union. It would prove, I quote Pavel Kohout, that Europe can work without Brussels officials, MEPs and other troughs. Brussels can be expected to respond to a possible exit from the European Union by trade war, even at the cost of damaging the remaining members of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it would seem that, following such a finding that Brussels would not spare us, that he would take revenge, we should not give citizens the right to decide whether to leave the Union. The opposite is true. Leaving the European Union should be planned as a completely realistic scenario. I agree with Pavel Kohout's thesis that if we don't let go at all, Brusel will treat us like a piece of rag. We're just gonna be treated worse. Brusel will continue to degrade the powers of the Czech Republic and we will find ourselves in a situation of an abused woman in an unhappy marriage without the possibility of escape. But if the possibility of leaving remains open at the expense of various inconveniences, Brusel will have some incentive to behave at least a little. At least you can hope for it. So if we want Brusel to treat us with at least a little respect in the Czech Republic, citizens should be able to vote on this issue in a referendum. And in conclusion, let me make one more argument. If most citizens wish to leave the European Union, and this could show the referendum, no politician has the right to defend the citizens. If a politician decides to represent the citizens with a say other than their will, it is not a democrat, but it is an autocrat that has nothing to do with democracy. [[15.00 hours]] Many of you say that we support extremism about our activities at demonstrations. We are not extremists and we do not support extremism. But you support him by not respecting the wishes of most nations to give him the right to decide what the nation wants to decide. And if some of you say we're breaking up Europe, it's not even true. With Pegida, Estonia, the conservative party, with the League of the North, with the Polish Kukiz©15 and the twenty other anti-immigration movements in the European Union Fortress Europe, we want nothing more than to return the European Union before the Treaty of Lisbon. Force the Brazilian elites to reform according to the model of Britain. Therefore, please give the space of democracy after six months and allow the Dawn proposal to discuss a referendum where citizens can freely decide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u39	Please, Mr Kádner, Mr Kolovratník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you all remember the petition of 250 000 citizens against immigration quotas and for protecting national borders. It was one of the biggest petitions in the history of the Czech Republic. Sobotkův's government still had the audacity to ignore her. I therefore want to place a new point in this meeting in which the government will finally respond to the citizens' calls. I propose to include a new item entitled Information of the Government on the Protection of the Czech Borders, and I propose to include the item today after the fixed points. Dawn has been demanding long-term border control since last summer. We have already held two seminars on this subject, which have resulted in some very important conclusions. First of all, it is a statement that the Czech Republic currently has neither capacity nor technology for long-term security of national borders. Police of the Czech Republic, which is primarily in charge of protection, carry out increased protection only at the expense of carrying out their duties in the outback. It is true that the army can help the police with border control, but only in the short term. The primary task of the army is not to protect Czech borders, this is the primary task for the Police of the Czech Republic. We can certainly deploy an army for border control in case of massive immigration, just as they did in Hungary, Slovenia or Austria. However, this is not a long-term solution. According to the estimates we heard at our seminars, the army has been able to protect the border of the circus for six months. Then it interferes with her ability to intervene abroad, in the ability to train, or perhaps in the ability to help in natural disasters. Deployment at borders is limited, for example. and her ability to guard key objects. An unsolvable situation where crisis events occur. Take a hypothetical scenario when an army deployed on counter-terrorism measures, into that spring flood and the border under the strain of massive migration. This scenario, which can easily occur, would set security forces at an unsustainable maximum. That is why we want to hear from the government on this point how it will tackle the protection of national borders conceptually and in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u41	I beg Mr Kolovratník and Mrs Havlová after him. I'll read the apologies. Mr Kostřica today from 17.30 for working reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg all day working reasons, Mr Korte between 15.00 and 17.00 working reasons and Mr Klaška today from 15.30 to 16.00 working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u42	Mr President, thank you. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not be able to delay good afternoons and long periods of time. I appeal to you with a request for a fixed classification of voting points, so I will not suggest any new points. Please place the following three voting points firmly for next week, on Wednesday, June 1, 12:45 pm: number 197 - proposal for the election of a member of the Supreme Audit Office, 198 - proposal for the appointment of a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, that will be the second round of the election, and item 199 - proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund, also the second round. I will repeat once again: three ballot points on Wednesday 1. 6. firmly at 12.14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. Mrs Havlová and Mr Novotný after her, who is the last to be applied for so far. Not anymore. After that, Mr. Chairman Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, government measures to prevent the collapse of the steel industry in the Moravian-Silesian region. This is the name of the point which I request to include on the House's agenda after the fixed points for tomorrow afternoon, and I am actually joining the proposal that has already been proposed here by Mr Stanjura. The Prime Minister is here right now, the Foreign Minister is not here right now, but I am asking you to ask these gentlemen for information on what they will do to prevent the collapse of Vítkovice ironworks, Mittal and other steel companies after the collapse of KD. In the Moravian-Silesian region, Mittal's personnel director Jan Rafaj, who said a few weeks ago: "Europe dealt with Chinese dumped prices for more than a year and a half and the resulting duty was 16 per cent, in a similar case the US imposed a duty of 200 per cent within a few months'. So what are we waiting for? I stress that the US has introduced 200 per cent defense against China, but Brusel has only introduced, only 16 per cent, and last Wednesday, the United States has even increased the import duty to Chinese cold rolled steel, and now listen carefully, to 522 per cent. They simply defend the US steel industry against unfair Chinese competition with a maximum duty. And what's going on with us? Vítkovice ironworks are in loss, ArcelorMittal fell into loss last year. Czech steel workers, where they can, warn against unfair Chinese competition. Probably useless. In February, even the regional tripartite called on the government to address the problem in Brussels. When I tried to find the Prime Minister's statement on this serious matter, the only thing that came out of the Internet was that, according to the Prime Minister, more Čech should learn Chinese. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask, what has this government done to bring the Brussels elites to the conclusion that a proper Chinese steel duty is being imposed, just as the United States of America has done? You guys don't think working for people is important, especially for the Moravian-Silesian Region? You don't care that the Prime Minister bends his back in front of Brusel and is afraid of Madame Merklová? After all, the Prime Minister has admitted and is able to sacrifice the steel industry in our country just so that they don't do the same in Brussels. I simply ask not only the Prime Minister, but also the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, who is from the Moravian-Silesian Region, to tell us what they did first and what they will do really in order not to be just another cheap workforce and, worse, not to remain at the employment office. As the situation appears, we will soon be able to rename the Moravian-Silesian region to the unemployed plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u45	I beg Mr Novotný and Mr Černoch after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, Prime Minister, dear colleagues, allow me to ask you to place point 36, this is the proposal by the Council of the Karlovy Vary Region to issue a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. This law was sent to the council of the Karlovy Vary Region in 2014, i.e. Today it's been more than two years, and at the 27th meeting 19. 5. 2015 this bill was discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies sent this bill to second reading. This means that today it is more than one year since regularly this bill was included in the agenda of the meeting, but unfortunately it never got to the hearing of this law. Therefore, allow me to propose a firm inclusion of this proposal, either at 1. 6 p.m. after fixed points, or 29 p.m. 6th as the first point. It's always Wednesdays. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u47	1. 6. first point in the afternoon, 29. First point in the morning? [[No, this afternoon.]] Both by block of third readings. Thank you. Mr. Černoch, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u48	Good morning again. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Dawn MEP, I would ask you to support the proposal that, right after we discuss the presidential veto, paragraph 125, House press 776, which is the proposal for Dawn, a bill entitled law against inclusion in education. Disturbing practical schools and the massive onset of children with mild brain dysfunction at standard elementary schools is a huge gamble. We interrupt quality practical schools with specialized background and staff and send their pupils to standard schools where many will not be better. Already loud defense of inclusion by Minister Dienstbier should be the greatest warning for you and this nonsense from 1. 9th of this year not to be allowed. Therefore, please support the pre-position of our proposal. It is the end of May, and so if we do not put the amendment into the legislative process this week, it is highly likely that we will not be able to do so in the legislative process by September. Our proposal doesn't violate the entire concept of inclusion. In essence, only one provision is inserted into the law, a kind of rescue brake, namely that, by decision of the Director, the relevant school or school establishment may refuse inclusion in the event that the provision of inclusion does not correspond to the possibilities of the school. The headmaster would be given a chance to stop inclusion. The headmaster is best aware of the situation in a particular facility and therefore leaves our proposal to his responsibility to see whether a particular school will proceed to inclusion. We oppose inclusion being ordered from above regardless of the situation in a particular place. If a certain school can handle inclusion, let no one defend it. However, it is not fair to require schools to introduce inclusion in case they do not have objective conditions, and the introduction of inclusion thus endangers the quality of teaching for the whole group of children. I therefore ask for the inclusion of this press as the second point right after the school bill vetoed by President Zeman. And please note in the vote that if we do not start to discuss the inclusion legislatively this week, it will no longer be possible to discuss it by September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u49	I do not see any more applications for the agenda, so we will proceed to the vote. First of all, we would vote on the proposal from the Gremium, as I put it at the beginning. There's a check-out request, so I'm asking for a new registration. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number two, logged in 171, for 168, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mr Votava has been apologizing since 17.30 for working reasons. Now, individual proposals for changes to the agenda. First, President Kováčik wishes a new point, and this is the Government's report on the situation in mining, taking into account the situation in OKD. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] And it would be the first point tomorrow after the fixed points of the afternoon. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 3, registered 175, for 74, against 76. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Černoch - information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the procedure for the disadvantageous privatisation of OKD. This is also a new point and it should be on Thursday 2. 6. following the Ombudsman's report. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 177, for 105, against 31. This proposal was adopted. Mr Stanjura - a new point, it would be the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the planned granting of the market status of the People's Republic of China. And it's supposed to be tomorrow afternoon after the fixed points, which would actually be point no right now. Three, if I'm not mistaken. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 5, registered 177, for 87, against 59. The motion was not accepted. Mr Laudát withdrew his proposal if I am not mistaken, so it is not possible to vote. Now, therefore, Mr Okamura, and this is a new point - a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU and a referendum on the reception or non-acceptance of migrants from Islamic countries as the first point on Tuesday 31. 5. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 6, registered is 177, for 41, versus 106. The motion was not accepted. Mr. koníček. In order to proceed fairly, I cannot promise that this item will be discussed on the Organising Committee, for one simple reason that I am not sure if a sufficient number of Members will meet to change the agenda, so it will be the purest if we leave it to the vote. He proposes a new point - the participation of ministers in the consultations, however, only until the meeting. [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 7, registered 177, for 77, against 62. This proposal has not been adopted. Vice-President Filip proposes a new point, namely the Prime Minister's information on the mandate of Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the so-called Sudeton German days. It should be Thursday, which means this Thursday after 11:00, which means 11:00. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 8, registered 176, for 43, against 105. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.20 hours]] Mr Černý wishes to place point 216 firmly, this is the Government's information on transits, etc., at 25. 5th as the third point in the afternoon. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 9, registered 178, for 40, against 109. This proposal was not adopted. Mrs Němcová wishes a new point - the participation of members of the Government in the discussion of written and oral interventions and the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on resolutions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, in several alternatives. The first proposal is today, 24. 5., after fixed points from the Gremium. That means point number five, if I'm not mistaken. If you can still hold on... Six. Yes, thank you. So after the fixed points from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 10, registered 178, for 71, against 82. The motion was not accepted. The second alternative is Thursday 26. 5:00 p.m. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 11, registered 178, for 70, against 79. The motion was not accepted. And the third option is Tuesday 31. 5th as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 12, registered 178, for 69, against 81. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Vilímec wishes to arrange a second and third reading of the press 403, i.e. paragraphs 29 and 189. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It's voting number 13, it's registered 178, for 152, against 11. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Hnyková wishes to place paragraph 98 on the basis of the fixed points today. It is a bill on the referendum on EU immigration quotas. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 14, registered for 178, for 42, against 115. The motion was not accepted. Mr Lank, paragraph 97, Constitutional Act on the referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the EU, today as a third point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 15, registered is 178, for 39, against 117. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Kádner wishes a new point, namely the Government's information to protect the Czech borders. And he wants it today on fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 16, registered is 178, for 52, against 93. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Kolovratník wishes to place the ballot points, these are paragraphs 197, 198, 199, and firmly on Wednesday 1. 6:45 p.m. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 17, registered 179, for 167, against 2. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Havlová wishes a new point - a government measure to prevent the collapse of the Ostrava industry in the Moravian-Silesian region, and this is today after the fixed points. [[The Member is arguing outside the microphone with the President.]] Yes. It won't be today, but it'll be tomorrow after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 18, registered 178, for 73, against 78. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Novotný wants to include paragraph 36, print 202 - either 1. 6 pm after fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 19, the entry is 178, for 56, versus 26. The motion was not accepted. And 29. 6. as the first point after the block of third reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 20, registered 179, for 14, against 45. This proposal has not been adopted. And the last proposal here is Mr Černoch's proposal - paragraph 125, press 776, the law against inclusion in education, today after a return... a moment's patience. [[A brief silence.]] That would mean today as the third point after the return by the President of the Republic. Yes. So today's the third point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 21, registered 179, for 62 against 91. This proposal was not adopted. I believe we have voted on all the proposals that have fallen. There's no objection. In that case, we will vote on the entire agenda of the 47th meeting, as tabled in writing and adapted by approved amendments. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to the draft agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 22, registered is 179, for 141, versus 30. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-000-000.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We'll continue the program as we've approved it. The first point is
