ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-046-02-001-001.u1	1. Information of government members on expected halt of construction of roads, motorways and railways The item was suspended on 5 May 2016 in the general debate. I would remind you that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec spoke first in the general debate, and the Members of Kalousek, Kučera, Zahradník, Faltýnek and after the speech of Mr František Laudát, the item was interrupted. I'm asking the Minister of the Environment to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk, and I'm asking him if he wants to get off. With regard to the suspended debate, the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok is also entitled, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka cannot speak because he is absent, and President of the Faltýnek parliamentary club. Mr. Michal Kučera and Mr. Miroslav Kalousek are registered with a factual remark. They are withdrawing their applications, so we can continue the debate. The Minister is not interested in speaking, Mr. colleague František Laudát, who is logged in, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-046-02-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I have initiated the collection of signatures for this extraordinary meeting. I'm glad we managed to move the government. For the moment, I'm following up on the previous meeting and the previous approved item. From my point of view, I speak for myself and as our club, I consider that we have managed to achieve at least for this moment or for this moment the goal that we wanted to achieve in order to find a solution. The solution is not 100%, but there is a certain hope in it, so from my point of view I recommend that this meeting be concluded without continuing. Of course, I cannot restrict the constitutional right of any Member to speak on this. But from my point of view, my goal, with which I collected my signatures, was fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-046-02-001-001.u3	That is, of course, what I can do if those who are enrolled in the debate withdraw their applications. Mr Zahradník withdraws the application, Mr Kučera also withdraws the application, Mr Leo Luzar withdraws the application, Mr Karel Šidlo withdraws the application and Mrs Květa Matušovská withdraws the application. So we've exhausted all logged in. I understand that there is no need for a resolution after the 48th session has been discussed. And since it was the only point of the meeting, I must take two more steps, to conclude the general debate and open the debate in detail. However, as I have said, there will probably be no interest in reaching a resolution in a detailed debate, which is why I am ending the detailed debate. We've exhausted the agenda, so I'm done with the 46th meeting. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to colleagues and colleagues. And from what we said in interrupting the 48th meeting, we will continue the 48th meeting after the 46th meeting. Technical break for the 48th computer meeting takes five minutes, so at 17.35 we'll continue.
