ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Occupational Soldiers, as amended /house print 958/ - first reading I will ask Minister Martin Stropnický to take his place at the rapporteur's table, as well as the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr David Kádner. Martin Stropnický, Minister of Defence, will submit the proposal on behalf of the Government. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very happy to do this without us discussing this material again. As you will recall, on July 1st of last year, an extensive amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act came into force. Its consequences are already positively reflected in the recruitment of personnel and in the current work with soldiers. But from the first days we gathered immediately from all departments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask my colleagues for peace! Please, I assume that's the last proposal we're discussing tonight. I ask you to allow this bill to take place in a dignified environment. Thank you. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u4	Thank you, too. We have evaluated the positive effects, but of course some of the observations that led us to present this amendment here today. In particular, the subject matter of the material is to specify certain conditions for the claims of soldiers for the purpose of clear interpretation or, in some cases, simplification of the staff administration, and this is in the case of certain components of the service salary. In particular, it is a special surcharge for the alternating performance of the service and an additional charge for increased liability, or a service allowance for housing, or reimbursement of travel expenses, where there is basically only a significant reduction in administration, or the conditions for entitlement to leave on continuous military deployment after our experience in Vrbětice, or an adjustment of the conditions of increased credit for pension requirements, i.e. soldiers who have increased credit in the performance of the service will be maintained this credit even for a period when they are not engaged in business because of illness, leave or any course, etc. The amendment also includes several technical adaptations resulting from practice, in the field of performance and duration of service or management in matters of service. So much in all brief. I would like to ask you to support this amendment to the Act on Occupational Soldiers and its referral to second reading, so that it can also be discussed, of course, also in the relevant committee. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u5	I thank the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr David Kádner to take up his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the speech by the Minister of Defence, who said basically everything essential, let me speak with my intelligence report. My intelligence report can therefore be very brief. On the basis of comments on the amendment already adopted by the Act on Occupational Soldiers, the submitted amendment was prepared to ensure clear legislation on remuneration, to clarify the conditions for occupational soldiers' claims for a service allowance for housing, for a service salary and for reimbursement of travel expenses when commuting to the place of service. The amendment also includes clarification of the procedure for determining the amount of the stabilisation contribution. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence, on the basis of comments from not only professional soldiers but also members of the Committee on Defence, has drafted the proposed amendment and that by choosing variant No. 2 which is the submission of an amendment to the existing legislation to the legislative process, will ensure that existing problematic provisions are removed more quickly. The proposed effectiveness of the amendment will also contribute to speeding up the correction of the current situation on the first day of the second calendar month following the date of its publication. As rapporteur, I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies that the bill be released for second reading. The Defence Committee is ready to address this material and discuss it within the time limit within which it will be designated by the House. For myself as rapporteur, I do not propose a shortening or extension of the time limit for committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u7	I thank the rapporteur, David Kádner. I am opening a general debate in which I have two applications so far. The first application is to Mr Antonín Sed. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, 1. 7. 2016 came into force by the amendment to the Act on Occupational Soldiers. I have already criticised some of the provisions of the law for being ambiguous, but in particular I pointed out that all the objectives of the proposed amendment were not met. As the Minister said, the aim of today's amendment is to clarify the legislation of certain provisions, thereby avoiding possible litigation. I agree with these clarifications, but I also lack the solution of other, very important problems in the proposal. I'll give you three. Surely we agree that the personnel situation in our army is not particularly good from the point of view of the fullness of the units. Therefore, the military's logical interest in recruiting new soldiers is increased. But what I don't understand is a waste of quality, professional pros. I'm going to deal with four specific cases on the defense committee next week, so only telegraphically today. There are cases where high-quality and skilled soldiers are not extended by duty obligations and have to leave the army. Even for the fact that their commanders, as well as other superiors, recommend a continuation of the ministry. According to my information, the personnel agency and the Secretary of State are having a negative impact on this. Another problem is the strict determination of the possibility of staying in a service place for only two years, with the possibility of extending this place by two years. This means, however, that when training takes over a year and a half in special positions, experience gained by training is not used. These will not be used, regardless of the huge funds and the intensity of training and preparation of these soldiers. Another problem, e.g. in the case of drivers, the fact is that both the military department and the professional soldier are interested in this service, but he eventually has to leave either to another department or directly from the army. The third problem of the law is the inability to pay a soldier a specialist if we have at the same level a man and in the same rank, which is e.g. except the paratrooper, diver or paramedic. It is simply because personal supplements have been severely reduced. These are some of the serious problems of the amendment to the law, which we will certainly return to when it comes to discussing in the guarantee committee, but I also recommend that we discuss in the guarantee committee, that is, in the defence committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u9	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Now, Mrs Černochová in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will try to be brief in order to get this standard forward to the next reading today. A lot of what I have to say here was said by my colleague, Seďa. I might add that I will, of course, support the increase of some benefits for professional soldiers, but, you know, I often wonder how the current government deals with each other not to become one of the congregation's recruits - they do not actually overlap with one congregation, they do not go to other congregations. I know that no one has produced such a document yet, but I would advocate that we have it at least as members of the Defence Committee or the Security Committee, so that some benefits can be compared to professional soldiers, police officers, firemen, customs officers, but not least to members of the Prison Service. You know, there were a number of amendments during the budget debate here, when some colleagues are proposing an increase in funds for police officers, firefighters, I have no problem with it, I have proposed adding 10 billion to the Army of the Czech Republic. But the prison service, thanks to the fact that the Minister of Justice probably has other priorities, doesn't even bother to be here with us today, so she's such a poor relative. No one really compares what happens and doesn't care what happens when the money rises to the soldiers on the one hand, and I wish them that, so how many people from the Police of the Czech Republic, how many people from the Prison Service will eventually go into the army, and actually the same people who have their place in that system of the state will still be here, and it won't be new people who should be recruited. Today, a report from the Prague City Council, when we learned through the media that the Council of the City of Prague agreed to a recruitment allowance of CZK 100,000 for city police members today, surprised me very unpleasantly or very unpleasantly. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but I'm gonna tell you a script that we can't rule out is not gonna happen. Before the end of the year, a number of soldiers can decide whether they want to leave, they don't want to leave. The tax has passed, which is okay, and I have supported it. They'll be entitled to a pension, tax-free pension. Where do we know that they will not go to other congregations, or that they will not pass, leave the service, and join the city police on these favourable terms? I would like to ask the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice to sit at one table, put their heads together and try to coordinate recruitment, coordinate benefits for these members, so that they do not choose one another from one congregation to another. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u11	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Now, Mr Ondráček, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Although each of the different political spectrum, I must fully agree with what Mrs Černochová said. What we're talking about in prison service, they have quite covered, because 230 members of the Prison Service are missing, and the Minister has been lobbying in some way to raise salaries for another 250 tables, so he's going to have less than 500 seats vacant. And if he can manage the money and not buy as expensive furniture as he's buying, then maybe he'll make it to the prison service. I quit so we can vote. Otherwise, my colleague, thank you, you are right, and tomorrow we will certainly discuss this within the budget as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u13	Well, I don't know if I can fulfill that ambition, ending this point. Now I ask the final words. Not yet. I didn't end the conversation. My colleague Michal Kučera is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u14	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to the words of Mrs Černochová. We're picking up a completely opposite trend, which means that the city police are going to the state police, the Police of the Czech Republic, with the fact that there are, of course, some of the debts, etc. This means that it would be a good idea to look at the problem in the direction of the city police itself, because we really can't stabilize the city police, given that after two years, after three years, city police members are going into these very files, so we can pretty much push each other out of the way. I think this trend could also be addressed in this amendment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-011-039.u15	Thank you. Since it is 19 o'clock, I have no choice but to tell my colleague Stanjur that he is the first to join the debate because I could not even end the debate. It's logged in to a factual note to make it in the Stenoprotocol. Since no one suggested a meeting after 19 o'clock... Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to finish in peace the procedural matters of the end of today's day. I have no choice but to implement the Rules of Procedure. I interrupt item 39, the Government's bill amending Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Professional Soldiers, even in the debate. I also conclude today's meeting day with the fact that tomorrow, on Wednesday, we have firmly classified points, namely the state budget, the third reading, as the first point. Furthermore, we could continue points 184 - expenditure framework, 185 - budget of the State Fund for Housing Development, 186 - budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the Copyright Act and possibly another from the third reading block if we make it within 14 hours. After 14 o'clock, we've got points 40, 132 and 241. Then we would continue with the first reading. I had the same ambition as the Minister to finish it, but it didn't work out. It happens sometimes. Please have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow morning.
