ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u1	15. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 508/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put forward the proposed government bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. Although it was voted at first reading that the bill will only be discussed in the Committee on Health, I consider it useful that, in the end, two other committees, the scope of which is also covered by this new legal standard, have discussed it. During the discussion of the committee's proposal, although mostly support for the bill but also criticism was expressed by the outgoing Members. After all, the diversity of views and the exclusive attitude on this subject has been accompanied by a proposal from the early beginnings of its preparation and can be observed across society. On some of the topics that have resonated across the committees, and I presume that discussions will focus on them today, I would like to make the following brief. As regards the total ban on smoking in restaurants and other facilities, I would like to reiterate that the main motive for submitting a proposal for this measure is the protection of health not only for guests but also for employees of these facilities. All employees have the right to breathe clean air at work. As regards the use of electronic cigarettes in places where smoking is prohibited, the Ministry is still cautious about this type of product and does not consider it a completely harmless matter. The inhalation of nicotine vapours is certainly not a health - desirable behavior, and nicotine addiction is a disease. Although there is no burning and inhalation of smoke in the case of electronic cigarettes, whether it really is an appropriate alternative for existing smokers, time will show. Here, however, I am willing to accept a compromise in the sense that the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes will not apply to restaurants, bars or public transport stops. But I believe that, for example, in schools or children's playgrounds, he has his reasons. I certainly cannot support the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which proposes completely removing the issue of electronic cigarettes from the scope of the bill. In the event of approval of this amendment, for example, the authorisation of such goods would be granted to persons under the age of 18, the disruption of transposition of Directive 2014/40, and so on, which cannot be recommended for the Ministry of Health. As far as the sale of alcoholic beverages is concerned, when the Act in the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Health is concerned, amendments were adopted by Members concerning the sale of alcoholic beverages at sporting events where the initial limit of alcohol volume is increased from 4 per cent to 4.3 per cent for alcoholic beverages that can be sold on them. The Ministry supports this proposal. An adjustment has also been approved, which has been discussed in advance with the Ministry and which is added to § 11 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the exemption for the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages in schools and educational establishments in which education is taught in the fields of gastronomy, hotel industry, agriculture, food industry or food chemistry. This adjustment was also supported by representatives of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. [[16.10 hours]] On another issue discussed, namely the financing of drug policy, I would like to say: The issue of drug policy funding is repeatedly addressed within the framework of the Council of the Government for the Coordination of Drug Policy, whose members are ministers of key ministries and institutions. The financial intensity of the implementation of drug policy results, for example, from activities always set out for a given period by an action plan or from the need for the sustainability of quality services provided to persons with adictological impairment. However, this does not complete the list of financial costs. Financial resources must be sought both in the budgets of each chapter of the responsible ministries and elsewhere, such as in the public health insurance system. Therefore, the Ministry supports, for example, the establishment of one adictological ambulance in each region, which will be systemically financed by public health insurance funds. It cannot be excluded that there are other issues, but so much for the most commonly mentioned ones. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the proposal tabled has its supporters and its opponents. However, I stress once again that this legal standard will contribute to improving the situation in terms of protection against addictive substances and will have a positive impact on the health of the population, and I therefore believe that you will support this bill in today's discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The press has taken an initiative to discuss the constitutional and public administration and regional development committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House press 508/1-7. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Jaroslav Krákora, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u4	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to present the resolution of the Health Committee of the 30th meeting of 17 February 2016 on the Government's proposal for a Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances - the EU, the House Press 508. After the introductory words of Dr. Lenka Teska Arnoštová, ., Deputy Minister of Health, and MUDr. Jaroslav Krákora and, after the debate, the Committee on Health recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances, House press 508, as amended by the amendments adopted. As has already been stated by both the Minister and the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Act also deals with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which adopted 18. 2. 2016 Resolution number 180, cited as House Press 508/6. And it is also dealt with by the Constitutional Committee, which adopted the resolution of 9 February 2016 number 181 of the House's Press 508/4. An amendment to the Committee was adopted. I think there were many other amendments then. I would rather comment on some later in a detailed debate. I myself have Amendment 3897, which I would then adopt in a detailed debate. Otherwise, I would like to say, as rapporteur, that after a broad discussion in the committee, between the public, the Chamber of Deputies, among colleagues, other citizens of the Czech Republic, there has been a compromise proposal concerning both smoking and alcoholism and drugs. So we've been trying to use the ratio in some things that are problematic, that's human reason, and give in a little bit. Together with the Ministry of Health, we think that this proposal could be compromise, that it should be approved. This includes, for example, the extension of smoking places where smoking rooms are stablely separated, the softening of the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes, the authorisation of the sale of alcohol in schools and where there is a connection to teaching, or where there is a connection to teaching, but the teaching does not take place, it is necessary in the evenings such as balls, various events. The Minister has already pointed that out. Alcohol may also be administered in wine schools or gastronomic schools where it is part of teaching. That's where we compromised. We have expanded situations where it is possible to sell alcohol in the context of occasional sales, that is, traditional markets, annual markets, whatever it is called. I think we've made concessions. Beer may be served there, as has already been said by the Minister, up to 4.3% vol., which is a so-called bar spirit, corresponding to a ten-degree beer. The law also softens the fact that wine can also be served at wine festivals. So I think there's a lot of these things, and I think they have a rational basis. This could be enough in the general debate, because the law is very extensive and I have already had a 40-minute speech at first reading before. So then I will express myself in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u5	Thank you. Just for the record, we're not in the debate, but you're in the news at the moment. Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Radek Vondráček, take the floor - which I do not see here. I shall therefore ask the President or Vice-President of this Committee to arrange for his rapporteur or, where appropriate, his replacement. And I will ask Mr Bendl, who is here to introduce us as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, to discuss this proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, Minister, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has taken the initiative, as has already been said, to discuss this bill, as it affects the life of municipalities more than it would at first sight indicate the title or, if you want, the wording of the name of the Health Protection Act against harmful effects of substances. The municipalities would be very affected by this proposal and life in the municipalities would be disrupted for a number of reasons. That is why the committee decided to discuss this material, and after an extensive debate with the representatives of the Ministry of Health's plaintiffs, it adopted amendments which, in my deep conviction, return the law to a form that might be an acceptable compromise, because there are a number of things that could not be controlled in practice. There are some issues raised in terms of the financial costs of the municipalities. This has also been a rather extensive discussion. I will then comment in my proper word on the amendments I have tabled and, where appropriate, the reasons which led me to this proposal. Some have been adopted by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I submit some individually, because I would then sign up for them in a general and detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u7	I thank the rapporteur and I ask that Mr Vlastimil Vozka, the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, take the floor and inform us of the committee proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. At its 54th meeting on 9 February 2016, colleagues and colleagues discussed the press 508 and, following the observations of the Deputy Minister for Health, adopted its Resolution No. 181, which is read in materials as printing 508/4. I will not read in detail the various amendments contained in this resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, which is nine. In conclusion, the Constitutional Committee stated that it recommended these amendments to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u9	I thank you, Mr rapporteur, and at this point I am opening up a general debate to which nine applications have been registered so far. The first is Mr Klán, Mr Koubek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. When this was discussed at first reading, I introduced you here with an extensive analysis of individual anti-smoking laws throughout Europe. I will now divide my performance into two areas, both to ban smoking and then to regulate the supply of alcohol in some way. And then I am going to ask the Minister some questions, because when Mrs Lenka Teska Arnoštová was present on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I don't think she understood the law very much either. When I asked some questions, she couldn't answer them, so I hope the Minister will answer these questions here, because the staff that was there didn't give me much of an impression that he fully understood. So first of all, no smoking. Once again, I had a certain analysis of the ban on smoking in Austria and Slovakia. You know, I'd go that way of partial regulation, just like the neighbors do. I wouldn't worry about it. For one thing, we have some historical ties from the days of Austria-Hungary or Czechoslovakia, so I would like to take a look at them, which is why I will introduce you to this issue. Slovakia, for example. So in Slovakia, the smoking law began to apply in 2005. This is a law on the protection of non-smokers, which has undergone several amendments since the beginning of its effectiveness. The places where smoking is prohibited are listed in Section 7 of the Act. In particular, paragraph 1 (b) is relevant in relation to the subject. (h) according to which smoking is prohibited in mass caterers outside those establishments which have for non-smokers at least 50 per cent of the area which is structurally separated from the part for smokers in such a way that no harmful substances from tobacco products or their smokes and tars or from products intended for smoking and containing no tobacco can enter the space for non-smokers, while the space for non-smokers must be placed at the entrance to the establishment. According to Section 2 (b). (i) the law in question is a dining establishment of any establishment in which food services associated with serving food and drink are provided. Since the last amendment to the Act on the Protection of Non-Smokers in 2013, both restaurants and cafes and bars have been included in this category. So it's Slovakia. If we look in Austria, then Austria again changes things a little differently. In Austria, the tobacco law, which, in addition to other questions, has been applicable since 2009 in Section 13a of the restriction of smoking in the field of gastronomy, is meant to be in addition to catering facilities, for example. also cafes, candy shops, night clubs, bars, pubs, dining rooms, taverns and snack stands. This is not a total smoking ban. Two options are distinguished. Firstly, establishments up to 50 square meters can be smoking or non-smoking. They must be properly labeled as a smoking or non-smoking establishment, so they give the operator a certain choice as to what equipment they will be. I'd be inclined to do that myself, to introduce it here under our terms. Secondly, establishments with a floor area of more than 50 square metres must be non-smoking, or have separate building rooms for smokers and non-smokers. An exception may be given to establishments whose construction work is not possible for safety reasons or does not allow it to be cared for. Now the cost of the construction work, which, of course, also had to do with it. So the aim of Austria and Slovakia was to introduce an absolute ban as in our terms, as the Ministry of Health is trying to do here. Therefore, no subsidies were granted by the State for the construction work of establishments. Any costs incurred for the implementation of the construction work still incurred were borne by operators in both countries. So if we, in some way, are going the way of a total ban on smoking everywhere, in summary, then of course, the owner will be responsible for the modifications. In some way, we will certainly try to soften things up here with individual amendments. As far as I know, Mr Adámek or Mr Stupčuk are proposing amendments that deal with this in a certain way and are similar either to the Slovak model or to the Austrian model. So I am applying to these amendments in a certain way, because I am more in favour of the way of partially regulating smoking bans. Of course, I understand the different reservations that it is harmful to health, of course, I agree with that, but I see the problem - in villages, for example, when I go to villages. to the pubs, so I can't imagine an establishment that has less than 50 square meters that should be purely non-smoking. I have set one example on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development that in a village that has, say, 150 people with 140 smokers, and that pub would suddenly be non-smoking. So I don't understand a little bit. It's absurd or extreme, but it can happen. I'm pointing this out, but, of course, I'm a non-smoking person, and I'm bothered by the smoke, too, so, of course, I'm up for some smoking regulation. Now I'm getting into the area... in some way in that law it's a Title III restriction on the availability of alcoholic beverages. And here I return again to the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I asked the speaker, your political deputy, what the word "predominantly" means. There are many times a word that occurs mostly in that law. I was saying mostly not seriously, the word doesn't mean much to me, because for example. in Section 11, which, of course, will now be amended here by some compromise proposal, in the letter. (d) it is written: for events intended mainly for persons under 18 years of age. I can't imagine, first of all, how the word will mostly be determined, because it's an indefinite mathematical figure, and when I asked the rapporteur, she answered me that she was just a lawyer, that she couldn't explain it anyway. It's like the word "unforgivable." Well, I wouldn't, since I'd already put it in there, write words like that, 'cause, on the one hand, who's going to determine it and who's going to judge it. I'll give you an example from the village I come from. So imagine that there will be some public event, which will be primarily intended not for children, but also for children. Who determines the word mostly? That most of the people under the age of 18 will be there. Will it be the mayor again? Or will it be the organizer of the event? I can't imagine anyone sitting there at the entrance, doing the lines, how old they are. Then we'll announce in the finals whether we can serve alcohol here, or we can't serve alcohol here. I just want to know what that word means, if it's more than five or less than seven. It's kind of a philosophical reflection of what that word really means. And it's there many times in the law, and I'm quite sorry, because then we can do different loopholes in the law, and no one will specify it, so when someone is counting how many children there are, and then they say that nothing is going to be served and they can't. Then there's the handwriting. (g) a public sporting event with the exception of an alcoholic beverage exceeding 4 per cent of ethanol. I've read that it's a ten-degree beer. We have already agreed on public administration and regional development on our committee that it may be 3.8 to 4.3, because each producer of the ten-tier beer is giving it differently, so there is also an amendment that regulates it. I'm just wondering how you figured out the 4% when it was being put in there. But I understand the sporting event, but where it belongs, for example. Choirs of volunteer firefighters, if they have races, for example, or community celebrations, athletes? [[16.30 hours]] Now I'm going to go back to the smoking ban. I'm going to ask this philosophical question: what happens to pubs in the village if we introduce a total ban on smoking or in some way we don't give them a chance to make separate rooms? It becomes one thing - it becomes a club. Because when I asked the political deputy again how it would be with the clubs, for example, the gambling rooms, but I asked directly about the possibility of clubs, she replied: "You know, Mr. Ambassador, he can't affect everything." I wonder how it's gonna be with the clubs first. Because I've known a lot of village cases where pubs turn into clubs. It'll be a closed company where you get a club card, you get a club chip, and you'll go there based on how you sign up, you'll normally be in the club registration, you'll be a member of the club. I can say that maybe it could be a dart club, a chess club, man, I'm sorry, I don't know what else to do, and this way it can be done. I'm asking this specifically because it's necessary to know. If we're doing a law that doesn't hit everything, but it's gonna be able to go around and it's gonna be squirmed again, then no one's gonna follow that law, and the citizen's gonna be just kidding about it because it's not gonna follow it. And I appeal to a total ban. Because if there is a total ban on smoking or in some way a big regulation on the sale of alcohol in villages or cultural events, maya, carnivals where it will not be able to drink. But the other problem is, and I'm sure that's what Jiří Petrů's colleague here is going to be talking about selling wine. If you're writing 4.3 percent of the volume of ethanol, what about wine, for example, on vintage? [[The rapporteur, Krakora, is speaking to the Member from the rapporteur's table.]] I didn't hear that. I'm sorry. But if it can be sold on May. That's where they'll pay, I suppose, the same thing if they can pour wine. Then we discussed, for example, grog or welded wine on the committee. This, too, needs to be thought through in some way. That would be this thing. If I still look at the sale of alcoholic beverages through means of distance communication, then no one could answer me at all, it is a para. 1 that alcoholic beverages may be administered by means of distance communication if their sale to persons under 18 years of age is excluded. I asked how it would be verified in the system. Selling on the Internet - I enter the ID number or the birth number, or how will the seller then verify it? I'm still curious about that. But I focus primarily on the word mostly to explain to me who will determine how this word will determine and especially who will control it. These are the fundamental things I wanted to say here. I know that this is a law which, of course, is necessary because we are in some way the only country in Europe where we do not clearly regulate smoking bans or these things, so I have no problem with it. But there was one other thing I was amused about when it was being dealt with that one soft drink must be cheaper than alcoholic - I mean beer. Some people said that it would somehow make tap water cheaper, that it would be water for a crown using a glass, but others came up with the idea that it would be easier for them to make beer more expensive. But that's just a contribution to the discussion. That's all I'm saying. I hope I've somehow enriched the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u11	Thank you. Mr Koubek's microphone, Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, given how rich the debate was on the committee, and I see the number of entries, I will try to shorten my contribution, because no doubt things will be repeated today and we will probably get to the point that everything has been said, but it has not yet been said by everyone, so it is probably not entirely the point of today's discussion. However, allow me also to speak out and perhaps point out from my experience to the mayor some of the matters relating to the law that you, Minister, are presenting. The law, which has been adopted in the media by a slightly unfortunate abbreviation of anti-smoking, aims at broad and, in my view, pointless protection of the population against the effectiveness of harmful substances so that, in essence, the law will harm people themselves. The law, as it is written and proposed, and now I submit in writing, even though you, Minister, have already moderated some strict measures in the opening speech, is absolutely completely detached from reality, that even the dozens of amendments that are already in the system cannot, unfortunately, make it legally respected, which people will not laugh at. I think that was also reflected in the meeting of the Public Administration Committee, and it has already been said here by my previous speaker. I must give him the truth that, unfortunately, the Deputy Minister, with her lack of knowledge of the law, sought to replace arrogance, and the whole speech on the Public Administration Committee was not at all happy. This turned out especially at the moment when the Deputy Minister's clerk left the parallel running committee on this bill, and the Deputy Minister was unable to answer any of our substantive questions about how the law would affect practice. Now, allow me to make a few points of dispute, perhaps it has already been said or spoken here, but nevertheless some brief overview of some of the biggest bullshit, literally and to the letter that I personally see in this law. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (d) which reads: "Without regard to the provisions of paragraph 1. It shall be prohibited to sell tobacco products, smoking aids, herbal products intended for smoking and electronic cigarettes for action intended primarily for persons under 18 years of age.'; That's really very hard. I can't imagine being the mayor who's hosting a lot of events, how we're going to define an action that's mostly intended for teenagers. Is it a Dragonade? Is it a children's day, Minister? These are events intended for children, but I am convinced that we have more adults there. With each child, parents come, often grandmother, grandfather, the area is large. And how do I define how I will guard from the position of operator of this event that it is not to smoke or serve alcohol at this event? That won't work at all in practice. Section 3 (b) Article 4 (1) (a) (f) which reads: "Without regard to the provisions of paragraph 1. 1 it shall be prohibited to sell tobacco products, smoking aids, herbal products intended for smoking and electronic cigarettes in a store with the prevailing range of goods intended for persons under 18 years of age.' Why are you doing this? That's somebody else's business, isn't it? I mean, that's a matter of internal business rules. It's totally working now that they won't sell you products unless you're of equal age. I think it's absolutely impossible. Then is there going to be a dispute that the store has more for the juveniles, or does it have fewer for the juveniles? That's a really unenforceable other paragraph you designed. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (h) read: "It is prohibited to smoke and it is prohibited to use electronic cigarettes in the children's playground area and sports grounds intended mainly for persons under 18 years of age." It's been said. Here, the correction would be quite easy if the word "primarily" was replaced with the word "exclusively." I think then it would be clear that it's a playground, a school playground. I think that practice is quite in this direction already, one might say, prevailing and that you are pointing a cannon at a sparrow unnecessarily, because this already works in practice, as we see it around us. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (i) read: "It shall be prohibited to smoke and it shall be prohibited to use electronic cigarettes in the interior of all types of sports facilities." I've already talked about this. Sports facilities are held in villages and in villages of various sporting, social events, these are places where people meet in municipalities. You're not gonna let them smoke in there? Let it be a business for operators, let them sort it out in their own way, in the form of separate smoking shops, if the space is closed, but let's not interfere with people's lives like this. The law will not be respected, will not be enforceable, will not be enforced. Article 8 (1) (a) (j) read: "It is prohibited to smoke and it is prohibited to use electronic cigarettes in an indoor entertainment area such as cinema, theatre, exhibition and concert hall, sports hall and other indoor areas during the organisation of cultural and dance events." It has already been recalled that this is a provision that will clearly go around during large mass events and rather cause complications. Let the operator determine how perfect it will be and what technical possibilities are at all. Article 11 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) which reads: "Business and restrictions on the sale and sale of alcoholic beverages at school and school facilities." It's been said here. We have a number of specialized schools where future innkeepers, waiters, winemakers study. Thank you, Minister, for remembering them in your opening speech and for making this provision very senseless. Article 11 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) (d) read: "No restrictions on the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages for an event intended primarily for persons under 18 years of age." My previous speaker talked about it. I won't hold up any longer. I think it is clear to us how to define it again, an action that is intended mainly for children, and how to enforce a ban on the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages. And why is that, anyway? Why? What if we're throwing these events, what are we selling the alcohol to teenagers? Why can't the parent who comes in with his kid, why can't he put the beer in, why can't he put the grog or the welder in? [[16.40 hours]] And some of the other things I tabled in the amendments. I'm not really gonna stall. I would rather, Minister, perhaps lighten it up and I would like to invite you to my place, to my community, Minister, literally and to the letter for some kind of children's event or drakiada, to see how such actions actually work in reality. Come, I'll warmly welcome you, see how a child's day like this works. We always associate it with health days, when we try to really and preventively affect our citizens there. And the way it works is, for example, in that sports grounds, we have a lot of stalls on that playground, various workshops for children, then we have a regular stand there, where dentists from the medical faculties of Vietnamese nationality teach citizens who come there, how to clean their teeth healthyly, that might cheer you up. And you'll see, in the other corner of the same playground, we have a pub, there's drinking alcohol, there's smoking, guys having beer or wine, when it's cold, they have a grog or a welder, they smoke a cigarette, no one cares. Why are you making senseless provisions? And if I go in there with this law, Minister, the law won't be respected, it won't be recognized, it'll be ridiculed, and I think it's pointless. If the House is to adopt an anti-smoking law, then it is possible to consider having a colleague named Ondráček from the ANO movement, who has already proposed his anti-smoking law to try to re-enact it, because I think it is a rather simple, understandable and effective amendment. Not that I'm totally cheering for her, not that I don't have any reservations about her, but I feel like she's enforceable. And that's what I think should come out of this House. A law that will be respected and enforceable. And unfortunately, Minister, this is not the model. And, frankly, I fear that it will not be after the dozens of amendments have been voted. Finally, let me just propose that this amendment be renegotiated in the guarantee committee. I'm not gonna propose rejecting the draft, even though I originally planned it, but I think it's absolutely necessary to return it to the guarantee committee at least. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u13	Yes, thank you. We will vote on your proposal at the end of the general debate. Now, please, the next envoy, Mr Bendl, will be prepared by Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u14	Good day, colleagues and colleagues. So once again, the news report, but in a proper speech. I, too, must first comment on the knowledge equipment of the representatives of the petitioner who could not answer the basic questions at the meeting of the Public Administration Committee, for example, to use something that has not yet been used here, how they will treat this law to hotel schools where you want to ban not only selling - which I would understand, even though the Central Bohemia wine school is earning by selling wine. To the question of what to do with it, no one of your representatives, Minister, has been able to answer. And that's not only selling, it's serving. You're nodding at me now that you've got it all figured out. Well, that simple thing you should have made up a long time ago. And they were supposed to be prepared for these arguments by your petitioners. Apparently, they weren't. I feel more like it because I find it hard to believe how I know you, Minister, that it's from your pen. I would rather believe that this is the pen of Minister Dienstbier, because such a militant and inconsiderate proposal, which does not take into account the reality of how the world works in the Czech Republic, is unbelievable. Unbelievable! This law interferes with business in a situation and tells entrepreneurs and organizers of public events that they are obliged to provide and guard, ensure smoking bans, and even under a fine, in case someone happens to come down drunk, which they probably will from the crystal ball to see if anyone is in such a situation. And even in that law you have that these entrepreneurs must be fortune tellers, because in Section 11 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) - I will read it as it is - "it is prohibited to sell or serve alcoholic beverages or to allow them to be sold or made available to a person who can reasonably be expected to subsequently pursue an activity in which they could endanger human health or harm property." So the owner of the restaurant just to look at everyone and say, "You answer to § 11 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c)? Aren't you gonna do some dirty work if you accidentally drink something here? - How are you gonna do that? Well, I'm kind of wondering how you guys figured out this section. In addition to the fact that in the Czech Republic, and you know that, smoking restaurants are dwindling. Gradually, the diet culture gets rid of the smoking culture. And what's going on is that the smoking goes to those bars where, by the way, you want to ban it, too, and drive those people out of the bars in those housing estates in front of the building blocks, or just shut it down. That might be best, in front of the panels, to stand there and discuss it, because I've also heard a lot of people: That's great, we'll meet someone there, eventually the whole pub will be out there anyway, right? Well, that's where they'll be discussing. And the mayor will go crazy when the people are there: Well, then we're gonna have to close 'cause she's stupid. The Chamber of Deputies invented a law that is simply unapplicable in practice. And that's even though maybe the guy in the bar has separate rooms. And if you wanted it, and if you were reasonable, you would suggest in advance that there be spaces, if the person has them there, that they do not have to be served, as is the case in Slovakia. Oh, no! I mean, you guys, straight to the tough guy, I'm begging you, what we're gonna do with it, we know what the nation needs, we're the social engineers. I wish this country was so worried that today we would have to deal with whether the owner of the restaurant is supposed to predict whether whoever's coming is already drunk, and if by any chance when he's leaving, whether he's gonna commit some property or not, or want to hurt himself or someone else. The bill interferes with the community's life by doing what I've already said to drive people out of restaurants in front of the panels, or if I paraphrase it from the point of view of the community. We are a small village, we have a small restaurant that barely hangs on, there are more or less regular regulars going there, more of those things like to heat up a couple and the like or to have drowns etc., and the surrounding area, because it was always so in the past that the school, church, pub, town hall are the foundation of the village, so it is in the center of the municipalities. But you're saying, so please, let all those smokers go outside to discuss how the dogs are barking. Whether the neighborhood is upset because it's ideal if the pub closes completely, we don't need to communicate anymore, we have the Internet or we call each other on the phone. This is all completely disconnected from reality. Or do you think I also noticed that when you wanted to ban smoking in the front gardens, which kind of denies it when someone has an open, outdoor garden, there I think not even anyone sitting next to the table can complain too much about being harassed by smoke and the like, so now the discussion: about 50 percent of the front garden, for example. [[16.50 hours]] So he's going to go there with some cord and he's going to say, here's the 50 percent, here's the whole thing, read it etc., so it really feels like... And who's gonna check it out? The village? The mayor comes to the village to call the only innkeeper who's still saving him, often it's community property, and they're happy to find someone in the village or in the neighborhood who runs the pub, so are they gonna be pissing all those people off? Is that what you want? Is that what you want? That's what you're suggesting in the law! And I don't think it's good, and it's really out of reality. At the same time to the municipalities, and now aside from the big cities, even though the Union of Towns and Communities has made a significant point of pointing out to you, on the one hand, you say in the explanatory note that the costs of finding someone who, excuse me, will tell someone that he smoked at the bus stop, there are really crowds of people in our village, you would see how many hundreds of people are waiting there for a bus that doesn't come anyway, because there are less and less of them anyway, so someone who calls the village and says, please, come get him, he smoked there. 'Cause how else could you possibly find out? Thus, the municipality will pay the accompanying costs, and if it is justified then, if it is found that the person in question is really, and it will be confirmed in court or how, therefore, that the person was drunk or similarly, then the municipality will be compensated for the costs. And you're saying that the community doesn't lose it at all, that it's going to be easy to enforce, and you're saying that for the community, the costs are negative. If they're backpackers, then I think it's pointless for us to transfer these costs to small communities, and the Ministry of Health can pay for it. It's gonna be so much easier. In this respect, I will make an amendment. Electronic cigarettes. Somewhere I picked up the Minister of Health who said that the harm of electronic cigarettes isn't that big, or it's small or something in that sense. I'd like to ask you what the Minister of Health is based on. According to my information, there is no relevant study that says that it is proven that the harmfulness of electronic cigarettes is proven. But if the Minister of Health says so, I am not an expert in health care, I say, maybe he is right, but I would ask you, Minister, if you would be willing to publish on the basis of which you claim that electronic cigarettes are less harmful when, according to my information, nothing like that has been proven, and on the contrary, a number of smokers who are trying to stop smoking use electronic cigarettes to get rid of this addiction. Therefore, I also propose that electronic cigarettes be removed from the law as far as possible. The 4.3 percent ethanol, which we here in the Chamber of Deputies agree about across the political spectrum, is all the more unclear to me how you came up with 4 percent if there is any relevant answer. And I think that if you want to ban drinking, I'm going to say wine, grog, possibly welded wine, even in the theaters or cinemas, which one of you - I suppose it's a big majority - go to the theater, so at the break someone will always have a glass of water or some lemonade or some other soft drink if they drive, and who doesn't drive, they can have two ounces of white or red wine, because it's just a bit of a part of the the theater culture. What makes you think what's so dramatic, what's the alcoholism in these theatres or during the theater breaks or, in general, what's so catastrophic that you want to ban it? But maybe a dozen beers, in the end, if you'd agree to it, it seems farfetched to me. Why do you want to forbid this? Why does the government come up with this as a government bill, that seems really unwise and stupid to me. What really bothers me is that you don't want - virtually. Like this. If we have any transport infrastructure - train stations, bus stations - you recommend that smoking be continued in the designated areas for smokers, or you say yes, you can. This is possible in transport, but it is not possible in other areas. That's a weird selection I don't understand, which is why I suggest that it be... If anyone simply has room for smokers, if the space is marked, then I'm not threatening anyone. A non-smoking person doesn't enter, no children can get there if parents are just a little responsible, and nothing can put anyone at risk, and I think it's consensual for everyone. I wish the petitioner, when he wrote this bill, had a little sense. And to the children's events in conclusion, because I could definitely talk a lot longer. Deputy Speaker of the Deputy Minister, when we were talking about cultural activities for children, she said: "It's obvious, it's already known from the title. Like playing with a clown is clearly a child's thing. [[A silence.]] It doesn't have to be, folks! It doesn't have to be! [[Fun.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u15	I thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Petrů will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear government, colleagues, I would just like to evaluate it. The law solves three things, and if we statistically take what's most talked about here, it's smoking. There are a lot of things about alcohol, but very few colleagues and colleagues here mention that there's another part of it, and it's drugs. I would therefore like to comment on this particular group, which are drugs. In the proposal that came to us from the Ministry of Health and we dealt with it several times, the chapter of substitution treatment was completely deleted. Anyone who doesn't know what it means, I'll translate it, it's drug addict rehab. Two round tables have already been organised on this topic with an expert company of adictologists. The next round table will be held this Thursday. This issue is, I think, very hot because the illegal drug market has started here in the Czech Republic, and I think it will certainly not solve only this law, that there is much more to the solution, but I think it is also because the system in our Republic is very badly set up. I therefore allow myself to submit two amendments to this law which would return substitution treatment to this law and to receive some legislation. Another measure for more responsible practice in substitution treatment is a proposal for a precise specification of physicians who should be authorised to indicate this substitution treatment. This restriction to qualified doctors should increase the quality of care and reduce the leakage of substitution preparations on the black market. Anyone who doesn't know that will prescribe a replacement preparation for you nowadays, but unfortunately, they're not starting treatment anymore. [[17,00 hours]] Furthermore, I would say that it is also very important to monitor the situation continuously and to monitor the state of use of addictive substances. I think it is a fundamental necessity and prerequisite for any discussion and formulation of drug policy. The second reason for monitoring is the commitment of the Czech Republic to participate in a pan-European system of monitoring and evaluation of the situation of the use of addictive substances within the Reitox network and the obligations arising from our participation in this system, including access to data from other countries and the possibility to compare the situation with each other, to inform about developments and current trends, including the absolutely essential need to share information between countries in areas where the phenomenon goes beyond national borders and where the only possible starting point is to share information and exchange it. As the Minister said, I must agree that it is necessary for at least a minimum preventive and therapeutic network of institutions in the Czech Republic to respond to the practical need that results from the seriousness of the consequences associated with the use of addictive substances. I know smoking is the most visible, smoke stinks most and smells, but I would really like to remind everyone that this law really isn't just about smoking, but it's about alcohol and drugs. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for my two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u17	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Another duly registered member is Mr. Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, in my speech, I will look at the part of the bill that limits the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages and the occasional sale of alcoholic beverages, i.e. paragraphs 11 and 14 - from the original proposal, I note that there has been some development since then. In Article 11 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) it shall be prohibited to sell and serve alcoholic beverages at school and school facilities. Today it has already been said that the proposal did not take into account the fact that there are also wine schools in the Czech Republic, for example, where the main teaching task is the production, training of wine-growing and wine-growing experts, serving, selling and tasting of wine, i.e. alcoholic beverages. Even the students are making a graduation exam out of this. The Constitutional Committee in its Resolution No. By letter of 9 February 2016, point (b) added the text "if it is not a sale or delivery, which is part of the continuous preparation for future professions in the fields of education focusing on gastronomy, hotel industry, agriculture, food industry, or food chemistry'. This is a reasonable proposal, so I ask you to support this godly proposal of the constitutionally legal committee. In Article 11 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of (b) However, this provision also has a further negative impact, in the context of secondary economic activities of schools. Specifically, I will talk about a school that rents a school cafeteria eight times ten times a year for family celebrations, weddings, anniversaries where, of course, alcoholic drinks are served. But I stress that this is Saturday, i.e. outside of school, and smoking is forbidden here. The dining room is also regularly rented by the winemakers' association to evaluate the wine where wine is served, tasted and evaluated. Some schools organize or rent prom gyms. Of course, alcoholic beverages and spirits are also sold and served at the prom. In this way, the school improves its budget for operating costs. This issue is dealt with by the amendment of Jaroslav Krákora's colleague, which is kept in electronic register under No. 3897, and I also beg you to support this good proposal. In Article 11 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of (g) there is talk of this - it is forbidden to sell and serve an open sporting event in public, except for an alcoholic beverage containing not more than 4 volumes per cent ethanol - it is already adjusted to 4.3 per cent. But according to this provision, some trained fans may consume ten, fifteen beers during a football game, but I will not be sold or served two ounces of good wine. I can tell you that we have been hosting a football tournament of LVA municipalities for ten years, where, of course - they are wine villages - wine is served. In ten years, there was no trouble at all. Well, if I were to be completely accurate, one day a fan was brought up drinking beer and then he scolded the judge. That's the only incident that's happened in ten years. I would therefore also ask for the support of my amendment kept in electronic register under No. 3795, I will join him in a detailed debate, and this matter will also be dealt with. We are coming to the provisions of § 14 para. 1 which prohibits the occasional sale of alcoholic beverages outside the annual market, public access to festive, cultural and dance events. Alcoholic beverages can be sold in a public sporting event - once again there is talk - with a maximum of 4 volumes per cent ethanol. I have to point out here that among the events where alcoholic beverages can be served, wine tastings are not named, we call it tastings, or tastings of partially fermented grape must, we are talking about peanuts. These are neither annual markets nor cultural or dance events - at least not at the start of the basket. It's not a dance event. Wine tastings are events intended primarily for the purpose of enabling wine producers to present their production at events where wine or fermented grape musts are degusted, evaluated and compared by the professional and lay public. This is a necessary process to increase quality, expertise and general awareness of the consumption of this noble alcoholic beverage. In addition, it promotes the preservation and development of wine-growing and wine-growing as an important part of the European cultural heritage, supporting the development of tourism in the field of wine-growing and wine-growing. Also many professional studies and publications not only in the Czech Republic, I will mention, for example, Professor Šamánek, but also abroad clearly support adequate consumption of wine. The fact that smoking is forbidden during wine tastings is also not insignificant, which has a great educational impact. The government's proposal makes it possible to consume any amount of beer at sporting events and makes it completely impossible to consume even a single cup of wine. It will therefore not be possible, for example, to sell warm wine drinks such as welded wine during spring and autumn outdoor sports events in cold weather. In order to address these deficiencies, I have included Amendment No. 3877, to which I will still sign up in the detailed debate, and I will ask you to support these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u19	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u20	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, we have also dealt with the possible effects of this law on regional wine exhibitions, regional fruit Uhlík baskets, and we have also come to the conclusion that it is necessary to alleviate the hardness of this law in some places, and we have therefore tabled together several amendments, which I would briefly mention here. One concerns the ban on occasional sales at school and in school facilities, because there are many municipalities and towns, small towns, where they do not have a cultural hall with the exception of a gym and so on. So it is necessary to allow that even in some municipalities they are traditionally organized in school facilities, specifically in gymnasiums, occasional events such as wine tastings, tastings of brandies and the like. Since the regulation provided for in Section 14 only affects occasional events and is to the extent very limited, there is no reason to jeopardise the conduct of similar events for the public and not to allow an exemption from the law for this area. [[17.10 hours]] The second amendment concerns § 11 and concerns the limit of volume ethanol, an increase from 4 to 4.3. A government proposal, like current legislation, restricts the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages at sporting events. A new derogation for alcoholic beverages from the current presentation indicating beer with an extract of original youth up to 10 per cent by weight on the proposal indicating the ethanol content. This amendment increases the proposed level from 4 % of ethanol volume to 4.3 % of ethanol volume in order to actually include all beers of the same tier. It is a ten-stage beer from all manufacturers. The reason for the adjustment is the fact that the originally proposed limit would otherwise unduly affect competition on the alcoholic beverage market, because, as is known, different producers have different percentage levels of ethanol content. The Czech Republic will thus avoid any disputes as a result of regulation, which would otherwise be discriminated against in the given market, or those vendors or producers who have a higher volume than 4% would have to cheat their ten. The next amendment concerns Section 14. This is an occasional sale on the market, a public festival, a traditional beverage competition, a cultural and dance event, a public event, etc., where it is proposed to extend the list of events for occasional sale on the markets in general, whether it be annual, one-off or regular recurring markets, including municipal, farmer's, etc., as well as traditional drinks competitions such as tastings, wine exhibitions, spirits, including fruit brandy, beer competitions, etc. Due to the long-term tradition and diversity of alcoholic beverages, including the mentioned fruit brandy, such as slivovice, apricots, cherry trees, etc., the category of spirits on the mentioned types of events is also left for occasional sale. As with the amendments, the rules for beers falling within the same tier are compared. Due to the focus of most public festivals, traditional beverage competitions, cultural and dance events, the obligation of prior reporting to the tax administrator is limited to markets only. This means that such a very strict measure, which had its rational basis, should apply to the sale of alcohol on the markets, but not to these occasional events such as wine baskets, slivovitz baskets. The last amendment concerning this area is still a definition of who cannot be served or sold an alcoholic drink, because I did not consider the original justification or the original term appropriate. I do not consider it appropriate to introduce in the amendment an indefinite term for the sale or administration of an alcoholic beverage apparently affected by alcohol or any other addictive substance, but to return to the settled term "person who is obviously under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substance and is in a state in which he threatens himself or another person, property or public order." [[person]] It is very complicated and vague to assess the condition of people who are obviously affected by alcohol or other addictive substances. If it is with some cultural events, e.g. baskets, alcoholic beverages, and if, for example, a glass of wine is consumed by a participant, it is clear that such a person is already under the influence of alcohol. Assessment of the degree of influence in strict interpretation may cause complications, for example, for wine exhibition organisers and a basket of slivovice. If an absolute prohibition is given, the seller should not then sell or submit another alcoholic beverage to such a person, even though the person does not seem to be in any way disturbing to himself or his surroundings. I therefore propose an absolute ban to mitigate the condition, which is set out, inter alia, in Section 18, for the modification of the entry ban for a person who is obviously under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances. So much for the introduction of my amendments and proposals by Mr Jožka Uhlík, to whom I would like to sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u21	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Excuse me, Mr. Schwarzenberg, with a point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I do not want to be protected from addictive substances. I want to face alcohol and tobacco bravely as I have done in 60 years of my life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda has already been duly entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to redirect your mind, which is now full of smoking and alcohol, to something else - something I have a problem with in this bill. This bill introduces the possibility of testing children at school for drugs without parental consent. This is, in my view, a formulation that is very serious, because in its own way, it introduces pupil testing to schools, which will not contribute at all to a comprehensive solution to problems related to addictive substances and drugs in the school environment. Our education has a number of problems, and one of the biggest ones is that trust between pupils and educators is actually impaired to some extent. Why this trust is disturbed and where the roots of this state are located is a matter for a very long discussion. But if we introduce drug testing for pupils, we get to a stage where a student and a teacher actually have an unequal relationship. Testing will mean that it will bring a whole range of different lashings, accusing that this examination, these collections will take place on the basis of some indication. And on the other hand, what will be the output of this test? Is there gonna be any penalties behind him? Any violation of the possibility or disruption of schooling? At the stage when we are discussing inclusive teaching today, I consider this step to be very, very unhappy. It will mean that our pupils will be in a problem that they will not be able to predict in advance, because the accusation of what is not defined here will by default contain the possibility of testing. I do not want to talk about the fact that drug testing means the cost of one test in the order of about 700 crowns, that it is not a very small sum. I do not want to talk about the need to train teachers in how such testing is done, how to ensure that testing is regular. I want to talk about the fact that the relationship between a teacher and a pupil should be such that, at the moment when a student is suspected of using drugs, it should be an incentive to have an interview between a teacher and a pupil, to have an open discussion about this problem and to attempt to resolve this situation in a form that should have an educational form that will enable the pupil to think about his problems, and that will also allow the teaching body to enter this matter actively, to seek solutions, not to seek some punishment by proving the use of the drug. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, the problem has one more unit in it, the problem is that with such a drug examination, the parents of the pupil should be familiarized. This cannot be done without any ties to parents because they are responsible for their child, they are responsible for being led and raised. Given that this problem in this law seems marginal, but it is very important for me, I have prepared an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. An amendment that simply does not allow this possibility of testing a pupil for the presence of a drug without parental consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u25	I thank Mr Svoboda. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u26	Mr President, Minister, Madam Minister, the last person present, ladies and gentlemen, has already said a lot, so I will also try to be brief. I'll start as I started at first reading: I'm in conflict of interest, I'm a smoker, sometimes and with a taste I'll have a drink of alcohol, so in both parts that the law tries to regulate, unlike those that don't regulate, like drugs, I'm a potentially dependent person. As I learned today from Minister Nemecek, I am even ill because nicotineism is supposed to be a disease. I feel... I feel quite healthy. [[coughs]] [[The loud laugh of Minister Nemecek.]] But, of course, that's a matter of assessment to what extent. I will still be speaking in a detailed debate, because we are in an extremely difficult situation here, where a number of proposals arise at the very last minute, and I consider the whole process of this hearing to be extremely unhappy. There's been a lot of noise from my previous speakers. Just here, and now I'm not entirely to blame for the Minister, but rather to some officials under him, there was a proposal of total fanatics, otherwise I really can't call it the perpetrator of good at all costs, who are determined to impose on us their good, no matter what it does to the country and what it does to individual people and whether it pisses them off or not. Apparently, the government only read it very selectively. This turned out during the discussion that we had a section called another name just because it was copied by ctrl alt, ctrl in, and then unfortunately we got into a situation that the same fanatics were acting on committees, and also things that the minister himself signaled a while ago, as electronic cigarettes, that in some form they would allow, so she was not willing to rewrite from the resort. And now we are in a situation where, in fact, the very minimum proposals for committees have been approved. We have here a list of about 50 or how many proposals, half of which have been submitted today. I am trying to keep an eye on this rather carefully, but it is really extremely difficult to learn what will be discussed, at what point, which proposals will contradict each other and which will not. I find it very unfortunate. If there was a will in this House, I would recommend that we repeat reading on the guarantee committee. But we'll see during the third reading, I can't suggest that at second reading right now, but I think we'll find that after the guarantee committee, we won't be much wiser, because this negotiation will fall apart into individual parts. Unfortunately, the law was written from the beginning as extremely prohibitive and not only about smoking, where the ministry at least signalled its interest in banning smoking almost everywhere, but again I think it overreacted, but also about dramatically alcohol and spilling it in public places and spilling it in closed companies, as well as personal sales. And then it was only during the negotiations that it began to show what absurdities there were. Some are addressed by their amendment, Mr Krákora, who I think has already pointed out the most absurdities as such, that you must not sell alcohol to a person who should then pursue an activity in which he must not use alcohol. Which would mean, however, that at no pump I can sell a bottle of wine to anyone who stops there, because it is undoubtedly a sale, no doubt it is a person who will eventually drive. That he would open it up at home or bring it to someone else's party, it didn't really matter to all the makers of the ministerial bench because they wanted to commit it. Unfortunately, these are the problems that come before us. I only point that out because I have a part of the proposals that are trying to regulate in some way what I knew was going to be a problem. However, there is, unfortunately, a part of the proposals that I will have to make in a detailed debate in the second reading and to justify them only in this detailed debate, because they basically follow up on what has been distributed to us here today by the rapporteur and what I expect to get through to some extent, and there I will only want to make some partial adjustments. By which I apologize to the honourable House that I do not have everything prepared physically and in writing, but it really was not humanly possible to do so. Those are the general remarks. One thing that I have to say about this is that it's been angry all the time, and that's when I look away from the regulatory activity, it's in that activity that doesn't regulate at all, because we're trying to act like we're protecting ourselves from the harmful effects of addictive substances, but in fact, the addictive substances are just alcohol and nicotine. And what my colleague Pastuchová has suggested here, and what has been repeatedly discussed on the Health Committee, that is some regulation - or Maxová suggested it originally, sorry, you just signed up for it, so I apologize - some regulation of whipped cream in the cities, we suddenly pretend that it is not possible that the Ministry will keep telling us - as we cannot give the municipality the authority to regulate whether the whispers will be 100 meters from the school or not. But the idea is that we can give the village the authority to regulate where there will be smoking in public space, where there will be drinking in public space. I think they're a bit of an understatement. Instead of regulating these really dangerous things, such as prohibited drugs and their substitutes, we are still trying to regulate drugs that are not prohibited by society, such as alcohol and smoking, in a maximum way. So many general remarks. I will then return to my amendments in a detailed debate, and again I apologise that I will have to justify them - some - in a partial way in a detailed debate, and I will not be able to just leave myself behind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u27	I thank Mr Benda. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, I believe that there is, as I listen to this debate, a certain general consensus on two things. The first is that smoking is unhealthy and harmful to health. I'm glad the debate isn't going on. I'd consider her useless. At the same time, I believe that there is a general consensus here that there should be no smoking in restaurants. Of course, what we are discussing here is seeking the degree of proportionality of the regulation of tobacco consumption. I would like to talk here about an amendment which I have taken the liberty of preparing as such a reasonable compromise in my opinion. The essence of my amendment to the regulation of tobacco products to which it is heading is based on the following principles: The first principle is the absolute ban on smoking in restaurants as the first, unobstructed rule of this proposal. Second, it admits the possibility of smoking where no heat treatment of meals is provided, in compliance with the taxative list of conditions, that is: constructionally separate spaces, so that smokers cannot enter the subjective rights of non-smokers, at the same time such technically defined spaces will not represent more than 30 per cent of the total area of the operation, i.e. at least 70 per cent of the operation where smoking will occur, will always represent the non-smoking part and the remaining 30 per cent - up to 30% - may represent the "smoking" plant. Once again, technically separated so that non-smokers do not pay for smokers. [[17.30 hours]] The third condition, cumulative, is that the amendment also seeks to meet the requirements for the protection of the health of workers, that such a smoking shop, which will not exceed 30 per cent and will be technically separated, will always be without operators. I believe that this proposal could be considered a compromise, consensus, even in light of the fact that we do not want to banish smokers on the streets for various reasons. And I would like to say, let us realise that we are constantly trying to increase the comfort and level, the quality of the rights of individual minorities here. Those smokers are a minority, too. There's 34 percent of them. I don't really see anything offending about defining constructionally separate plants where they can smoke without endangering non-smokers or operators. We're also talking about some dignity here. I would argue too much for us to think about this proposal together, because I believe that such a proposal is a big step forward in regulating tobacco consumption. We cannot even look away from the fact that the Czech Republic is still quite liberal in terms of offering options for the purchase of tobacco products. So I would even put this in a certain balance with that side of the offer. I'd beg for it. And hopefully I won't say anything wrong when I think there's a definite, even implicit consensus with the translator at the moment. I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to consider the support for this proposal. Of course, I will join him in a special debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u29	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u30	No, I volunteered with the facts because I just want to respond to the previous speaker. I really thought about his amendment because I thought so too for a long time and publicly supported this view. That is why I consider it necessary to say briefly why I changed my mind. If we support this amendment, as sympathetic as it sounds, in municipalities from 2,000 to 10,000, we will eliminate pubs where there is today cooking, drinking and smoking, because everyone who goes there today to eat, drink and smoke, so they will eat fast food there and move across the street to a hot place where it is not cooked, but where they smoke and drink. So in those pubs, we either cancel the kitchen because they won't be able to compete or they'll shut it down completely. Just the condition that there should be a level playing field for all should be maintained. That means we either ban it everywhere, or we don't forbid it anywhere. But if we ban it and don't ban it, we will create an inequality that will completely unfairly destroy a certain type of enterprise in this public food sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u31	Thank you for this point of fact. With another factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u32	I do not consider myself to be a great expert in the area of individual comparisons of adjustments to this issue, but I would just like to respond to my previous speaker in the sense that, on the one hand, such an arrangement is common abroad. It's nothing that's completely untested. But if we come out of some liberal perspective, he says it's always better to leave the decision to the people. I think that my proposal is aimed at a certain choice, which is why I would prefer it over the binding nature of the state regulation, even if I understand the argument you made. Because, of course, it is very difficult to find the way in this racket, of course, but I still think it is better just to leave some room for free consideration for both operators and consumers than to come up with an absolute ban. Of course, this can also be the case with electronic cigarettes, because if there is an exception, we will indirectly create a comparative advantage for producers of electronic cigarettes and, of course, producers of traditional tobacco products will be disadvantaged by the new legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u33	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. Another duly signed up is Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u34	Mr President, dear colleagues, when we listen to this debate, we certainly do not miss the fact that most of us, at least those who are debating here, are interested in not introducing the smoking ban in the form that we were talking about at the beginning. I ask whether this is because it is rather the silence of those who have been in favour of the absolute ban on smoking in the indoor areas of the combined catering facilities or not. As you know, there is another Parliamentary press 272 that contains this sentence. And in the event that this law is not successful to the extent originally intended, to the end, it is always possible to return to it. This is only in the introduction to this eventuality I would like to point out once more. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that so far, few people here are talking about the fact that employees in restaurant facilities are very often indirectly forced to accept a job that is now well, in Prague very well, but well compared to other jobs, and they have also suffered from doing work in conditions that are harmful to their health. I like to visit restaurants, not every day, of course, but often enough to know the situation well enough, and I know that most of them would welcome smoking bans. It would also be welcomed by people who we would say can see the smoking ban as a kind of neutral standard, it will not be. These are people who visit restaurants here in Prague, I will use the old term lower price category, who say: when we come to the restaurant, we usually smoke there, we have to vent our clothes, it would be good to introduce a general ban on smoking. Personally, I do not believe in separate building spaces, because by coincidence in Prague 2, we now met at a meeting of our club Prague 2 in a facility that has so-called separate spaces, and, of course, every time we opened the door to that non-smoking area, there was strong smoked air flowing there, so soon after our arrival we felt that we were sitting in the smoking area. And so it is in other restaurants. So I think once we introduce these exceptions, we're going to make them a rule and they're going to be part of the law, so we don't really have to approve anything at all. So I see it this way, unlike the second part of the law, which threatens the first anti-smoking, and that is basically partly in the original version of prohibition provisions concerning alcohol consumption, and where I think that the amendments, for example, as presented by my colleague Benda on the constitutional law committee, in many ways, when I then think about them ex post, are so well-founded by the current situation of drinking at balls and the like that I think that the law will be more acceptable to the public, I will definitely raise my hand in that modified form for him, virtually. for amendments of this type. [[17.40 hours]] Of course, like most of us, I was surprised - I will use the term that came to mind - a comprehensive revision of the original proposal that we discussed in the committees, so that was at the first stage of our negotiations. Now that I'm getting to know each other's proposals, I find that these are actually proposals that sounded similar in the constitutional committee's negotiations and apparently others. So it's not that big of a change, it just sounds like it's from the Department of Health. At the end of my speech, I wasn't prepared to perform this comprehensively because I thought that the debate had passed, I would be able to address my amendment to ban smoking in zoos or on public public transport platforms. I wasn't ready for this, but at the end of the day, let me sum up those few notes, recommendations to think about whether we want to go on a road that hasn't been very successful abroad. I know the situation in Slovakia, and I know that they say: Do not accept the adjustment that we have adopted, it has not worked for us. And if, as in the past, we hide behind our typical Czech property many times, that we are creatively able to bypass anything at any time against anyone, if we treat it this way, then it is actually not worth adopting laws here that want to lay down some kind of area regulation. I suggest you look at the more advanced countries, I think from the point of view of legal culture, where it works quite well. And I myself had great doubts that, for example, in Italy or Spain, this ban would be respected. I've been to both countries several times, I haven't met the fact that he's not being respected. I am not talking about disciplined countries of the Scandinavian type or Germany and Austria, where we know that discipline is above all, and we are relatively far from it. But it is the southern countries that are both close to us and kind to us, and I think that this example works there. Slovakia, I think, is not an example that we should inspire too much in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u35	Thank you, Madame Válková. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Klán. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u36	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to Mrs Válková by means of you. I'm in favour of the exceptions. This, for example, is the model of Austria. Austria has the exceptions, too. And I wouldn't be afraid to apply them here. I would have come up with such an idea, whether every restaurant operator chooses to have a smoking or non-smoking facility. We give a choice both to the operator and to the citizen or to the customer who wants to go there. So he has a choice: I'm going to a smoking restaurant or a pub or I'm not going. Same as a non-smoking. I can go there and there. So let each one choose according to his best knowledge and conscience if he wants to destroy his health. And that operator will determine it that way. But it must be clearly marked at the entrance that it is a smoking facility or non-smoking. For example, we will find that we will have all non-smoking establishments and there will be no smoking. But I say it takes time. Because if we regulate hard with a total ban on smoking, it'll just go around. It's gonna be all over the place. I'm really appealing to this principle here. I'm saying, it's been said here, I'd like to take a role model from Austria. And if not from Slovakia - although I'm not afraid of either model, because it works in some way, but I say let's give the operator a choice whether it's smoking, not smoking, and the consumer, whether he wants to go there or there. It's probably the easiest thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u37	I thank Mr Klán for this democratic approach. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u38	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, I am used to not speaking from paper, but this time I had to prepare the paper, not because it would be very long, but just to remember something. But I will be very brief. So I've only prepared a kind of thesis. Tez one. Our Republic is the last country in Europe where this law is not. It's not. I'm asking: Why? I believe that even at this meeting we were able to calculate the various discussion contributions and to find out the reasons for them. Two. The adoption of this law must be absolutely essential and necessary for the health of the citizens of this country. Three. I will not comment on many discussion posts, because I consider it an outrage to prefer business to the health of our citizens. Four. I appreciate the Ministry of Health that this law has prepared and fought valiantly against the demagogy arguments of some politicians. On the contrary, it is complexity, which means smoking, alcohol, addictive substances, that I consider to be very positive for the defence of this law. Five. The Committee on Health, as a guarantee committee, has discussed this law and prepared a resolution which the rapporteur has made, and which I support unconditionally. Six. No law is perfect and acceptable to every citizen. It is not possible to define, prohibit or permit all situations which some colleagues use to prevent the adoption, repayment or at least delay the validity of the law for as long as possible. Seven. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one crucial point. If some Members think that this law is a positive policy for them and will be re-elected to this Chamber of Deputies, then I would like to believe that this very approach to this law will have a negative effect on them, and the citizen, the voter, and once again we will need it after four years, will recognize its position on fundamental laws and will not give him a vote. Finally, I wish the Ministry of Health to uphold this law. And I wish us Members our senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u39	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another last one so far entered in the general debate is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u40	Good evening. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, anti-smoking law is the evergreen of this House. That's been said many times today. It has also been said here that the law in this form is seen mainly as anti-smoking, especially from the media. There's nothing we can do about it. But, as my fellow Member, Pastuchová, through Mr President, but some others, I would also like to mention some other aspects of this law. There's a little glossa to start with. This law is such an irreconcilable struggle between those who would like to contribute a little more to the law of non-smokers, against those who, on the contrary, very stubbornly and resolutely protect the rights of smokers. There's nothing we can do about it. That's how life works. But I firmly hope that, despite this relentless struggle, we will eventually come to an end in this mess of amendments, and this law - and from my point of view, the necessary law - will eventually be passed. However, I dare say that in these walls we do not see this law for the last time. If so - and without means, maybe through the ether - I listen to opinions for me, but otherwise very esteemed Senator Kubera, I am convinced that we will still meet this law in these walls. I don't want to be a bad prophet. But if it doesn't happen, I promise publicly here I'll buy Mr. Senator, and now that sounds very unpleasant from the doctor's mouth, a carton of very luxurious cigarettes. [[17.50 hours]] Now, seriously. Protection of non-smokers remains a priority for KDU-ČSL. We don't fight smokers, but our goal is to protect non-smokers. And as an unobstructed minimum, we see greater protection for non-smokers in the sense that at least in the food and food restaurants where the food is served, there is no smoking. I can see that as an unobtrusive minimum. Of course, we honor the government's proposal in its entirety, and of course we will discuss all the amendments that have grown especially during this day as mushrooms after rain, and we will judge it very responsibly, but I am just saying that there is a minimum threshold below which we will not go as KDU-ČSL. [[Him?]] Now I would like to mention a few amendments that I have prepared first for the Committee on Health, and some I will be reading today at second reading. An amendment concerning adictological services has been approved in the Committee on Health, specifically concerning the conditions for the operation or organisation of certain preventive actions such as HIV Day, etc. This amendment has been adopted and I hope it will find support here in the Chamber of Deputies. The second proposal that I am going to make today in a detailed debate is the legislative anchoring of adictological services, which I consider to be a very important part of drug prevention and treatment of addictive diseases. Here I will also ask for your support at the third reading. The third amendment was very widely discussed in the Committee on Health, but also in the professional public. Several round tables have been held on this issue, organised by my colleague Jana Pastuchová, and I thank her for that, and they have contributed greatly to identifying the biggest risks in the area of substitution of addictive substances and all other related circuits. Based on the identification of these risks, a very intensive meeting took place with several sections of the Ministry of Health under the direction of Deputy Minister Policar and Filip. I want to appreciate the fact that after a few weeks of very intense negotiations, we have reached a solution to at least the most pressing issue and that is methadone treatment. Metadone in outpatient use for patients who are already in some stable form and where the administration of methadone is currently at the limit of the law. It is necessary to make this legislative anchor, and I therefore believe that this amendment, which I believe should have the support of the Ministry of Health, because it has contributed significantly to it, addresses at least this most pressing issue of substitution. In addition to this area, however, a number of other problems relating to substitutions remain, all of us who are somehow aware of them, and therefore, on 10 March, my colleague Pastuchová is already holding another round table where we will discuss other risks and possible solutions to these risks. Here I would mention again the activity of Deputy Minister Policar and the Ministry of Health concerning subutex administration, subuxon, where the lawyers say it cannot be dealt with by legislative means, but the solution is looming in a non-legal way, negotiations are taking place with stakeholders, including the State Institute for Drug Control. And I firmly believe that there will be a solution in this area in a short time. I will sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my wish that, despite all the pitfalls and very difficult decisions, we should come to those companies that I consider to be advanced and which consider the protection of non-smokers to be of very important value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u41	I thank the last Mr Kaňkovský to join the general debate so far. Mr Brázdil has now made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u42	Really, really, really, really fast. This law is called the protection of health against the harmful effects of addictive substances. This law will try to get smokers out of some sort of pubs, restaurants, bars, where they can blow it under their noses, and they do it, out, in front of a restaurant where mothers go with strollers, where they're supposed to play sports, where they're supposed to enjoy life. This space belongs to everyone, while the enclosed space of those bars is a purely private matter for those affected people. Please, will it protect anyone? On the contrary, it will help those innocent people who walk on the sidewalks to smell it. And they'll be cleaning it up. Doesn't look serious to me. It doesn't protect you. This, on the other hand, drives those smokers out to spoil the atmosphere for people who walk on the pavement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u43	I thank Mr Brázdil. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. If there is no interest in the final word, I note Mr Koubek's proposal. It is a proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, which we will now vote on. There's a request for everyone to sign off, so I'm signing you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Koubek's proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 187, 134 Members and Members, for 38, against 83. The motion was denied. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Lukáš Pleticha, who is the first to be entered in a detailed debate, will be the first to be given the opportunity to state his reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u44	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my colleagues, I have prepared four amendments that are trying to pre-empt the standard that we have tabled, in some way, to add to what simply did not come to mind during the spread of the material. My first amendment, which is in the system under number 3887, concerns the addition of § 14 para. 1 where a list of where alcoholic beverages may also be served, trade fairs, sales exhibitions, exhibitions of plants, animals, minerals, interest fairs and farmer's markets is added. So that's one amendment. The other three amendments concern transport. And here I dare to utter a reprimanding word - not to the translator and the processor, but to the Ministry of Transport, which I think completely slept through. This proposal seeks to regulate smoking and serving alcoholic beverages in areas that serve with public public passenger transport, but as if the Ministry of Transport is doing nothing at all. It is understandable, of course, that lawyers and legislation from another field, it is a concept to them and the whole issue is distant, which is why I really do not blame the minister or his team for the fact that the proposal is not perfect. I will try to supplement this with my three amendments and correct what can be corrected. So my first amendment under number 3886 concerns public transport means of public transport of persons, where alcoholic beverages can also be served, by adding the list of means of transport for public public public transport of persons used for tour transport, tourism, nostalgic and historical and promotional tours and journeys on order. [[18.00 hours]] These are the kind of tours for tourism, where it probably doesn't bother anyone, respects the fact that it's probably not good for alcoholic beverages to be served in the transport service. But it doesn't matter here. On the contrary, part of the revenue from these gastro-service services is used for maintenance of historical trams, trains, further repairs. I think the purpose of the law will be achieved and it won't matter. The next thing I see more problematic is the work of smoking and the work of moving people in a drunken state, because in the bill, responsibility for the movement of such persons is passed on to carriers. However, carriers, operators operating transport are in the vast majority completely different from the owners of the premises used for this, i.e. stops, railway stations, terminals. In the proposal, as presented, the public public transport operator is objectively responsible for smoking at the bus stop. How would this be possible in practice? If a tram driver, when he sees someone smoking at the bus stop, has to stop, leave the vehicle and go banish him, he will take two steps, then he will continue to drive. It's just not conceivable. This is where the Department of Transport actually fell asleep. That is why I am making an amendment under Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The first sentence of the first word "vehicle operator' shall be deleted. In relation to this, Section 36 para. Where the penalties are imposed, they shall be repealed. That's one thing. Then the next draft is actually the last one. He's in the system under no. 3888. This concerns the movement of drunk persons on platforms, in means of transport, waiting rooms, because once again the transport operator, whether the driver, cannot be responsible for who just stumbled onto the peron, who is moving there. And then there's one other historical thing that we actually have a lot of station restaurants, hospitality, refreshment services that have one single exit, and that always leads to areas that serve transportation, passenger handling, waiting rooms, platforms, check-in halls, and the moment someone gets there in a drunken state, they can't even leave this facility under the law until they sober up. Which, on the one hand, seems smiling, but it will make it extremely difficult, for example, for the intervention of the city police, which will be called to such a guest, it will show it, but actually the guest has nowhere to go, because it would violate another law again. I think that this is a bit far-fetched, and that is why I am filing an amendment relating to Section 18 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. the following points (b), (c) and (d) are deleted: In addition, Article 18 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation does not apply. In the case of a public transport undertaking, the following conditions shall apply: In addition, Article 36 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply to the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 which is repealed because this is a provision which transfers responsibility for these That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u45	I thank Mr Pletich. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mrs Pastuchová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u46	Thank you. I will not justify my amendments because I have justified them for you in the general debate. They concern substitution therapy. So I'm applying to my Amendment 3469 and the next under No. 3683. I will also read Amendment 3467, which I would just point out is the possibility of the municipality deciding whether it wants to have a substitution treatment centre within a kilometer of school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u47	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Another duly registered member is Mr. Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u48	Mr President, I am signing up for Amendment 2. 3795 and 3877, which also contain justification. I also justified my amendments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u49	Thank you, Mr Petrů. Another enrollment is Mr. Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which you will find in the system under No. 3904. This amendment concerns specific facilities that are now fashionable in the Czech Republic, they are tea houses. It involves the exception to so-called water pipes. The amendment is that Paragraph 8 where there is actually a list of different installations is inserted. 2, which just states that it is possible to use these water pipes, which are specified as tools where there is water filtration of smoke and precisely in constructionally separated spaces, which are specially designed for these purposes. I would like to point out that the visitors to the teahouse are counting on this, and most of them are going there to smoke a water pipe. Therefore, it would probably be appropriate to incorporate this exception in some way into the amendment of the law. Otherwise, of course, I am in favour of banning smoking in restaurant facilities, but this is a very specific matter and I think that the teahouses are based on this very and economically, so if we did not support this amendment, we would bring them into certain financial and economic problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u51	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Mr Antonín Seďa is another member of the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I hereby subscribe to my written amendments to press 508 in the Houses of Document 3892. The justification for these amendments relating to § 11, § 14, § 49 and effectiveness is set out in the Houses of the Press. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u53	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I hereby declare my amendments, which I have put into the system under 'No'. 3891 and 3905. The first amendments under Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be The first two concern Section 11 and the third amendment concerns Section 14. The first two amendments concern the exclusion of schools and school establishments from the possibility of the occasional sale of alcoholic beverages. The second amendment concerns increasing the limit for beer ten from 4 to 4.3 volume ethanol content. The third amendment means the exemption of occasional events other than market sales from the notification requirement laid down in the tax order for the sale of spirit drinks. As regards the other amendment under No 3905, which relates to Sections 11 and 35. This is a refinement of the definition of a person under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances. I have given a detailed justification for all these amendments in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u55	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly registered member is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u56	Have a nice evening again. Allow me to sign up for my amendment, which is set out in the House document under 'No'. 3868. I said his reasoning in the general debate and it is part of the material presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u57	I thank Mr Svoboda. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u58	Dear Minister, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, different this time, but still only one representative of the government... [[ANO Members' response.]] Well, the minister is mandatory here, but there's another government representative, there's only three, and there's no other ministers. As I signalled in the general debate, I will first sign up to three amendments. The first is House document 3894, where the justification is, which are dedicated smoking shops in catering facilities up to 25 per cent of the area and without operators. I consider this a reasonable compromise, if most of us here want to enforce a total ban on smoking in restaurants, the idea that this House is aimed at pushing people out on the street doesn't really seem reasonable to me. Of course, who wants to establish it, establish who will not be able to or for any other reason will not be able to do it or will not be interested in establishing it, of course they do not have to. But the idea of not allowing indoor smoking space, and I'd rather have those people standing on the street, in front of those kids, seems really unreasonable to me. [[18.10 hours]] The second document is 3895, which is the exclusion of e-cigarettes, I think they are in the complex proposal made by Mr Krákora. But since they still weren't finished after the committee meeting, but the Ministry was pretending that if we wanted to throw them out completely, they didn't like it again, so I also prepared the minimum version. The last proposal is a proposal that I have also repeatedly advocated, which is only in a slightly different version than that of smoking in restaurants, and this is House document 3896, which concerns the possibility, in turn, of setting up separate smoking shops in sports, cultural and other establishments. The idea that we're trying to get people out of O2 Arena at the concert, if you know what it's like out there, how it's like to be in control, or that I'm gonna keep a solution at the ball or other things that they're gonna say either you're going out or you're not allowed to smoke anywhere, seems unreasonable to me. These are the three proposals I have in writing. I would like to go back to the material as such and put forward some proposals of a rather partial nature, which I would recommend that this House accept. First of all, in Section 3 - and with permission, I am now coming out, and I think, perhaps rightly, from the wording of Mr Krákora's attached amendment, because I am already so confused about what we are discussing, so I will always say what I am concerned about, but I am based on this text, which we have as if already after the Ministry's adjustment. In Section 3 - prohibition of sale, sale, not use, but sale of tobacco products, smoking supplies, etc., I propose, first, to delete letter (d) for an action intended mainly for persons under 18 years of age. This isn't about smoking, this is about selling. That's where I think we're getting into ridiculous situations again. It's going to be very difficult for people under the age of 18. Christmas market - so there's more mommy, or more kids looking at the tree? Is there a no-selling ban or a no-selling ban? I think it's completely unnecessary here, because it's not even a use. The same shall be deleted from point (e) in a means of transport intended for public public public passenger transport, with the exception of a means of transport by air. Here again, for some reason, we give exceptions to airplanes that sometimes historically, because there were duty-free zones, so cigarettes were being sold there, but we say it can't be on a train. Why couldn't he possibly buy cigarettes on the train? Why should it be banned by law and allowed on a plane? I consider it completely unnecessary. A final proposal for this Section 3 - to delete point (f) in paragraph 1. 2, which are stores with the prevailing range of goods intended for persons under 18 years of age. I pointed it out again. I really don't know what it is - it's not just toys. This is basically every food goods store, because undoubtedly these foods are also intended for people under 18 years of age. And now we're going to assess whether alcohol is still being sold or not. I think it's only gonna cause complications. I don't think anybody in this country is going to go down the road and sell cigarettes at the toy store. Because he wouldn't sell anything in my opinion. He'd have to be crazy, and there'd be a supply. But these stores mostly selling things for people under the age of 18 - I'm completely unclear what that means. That's the first suggestion. Second proposal, also to smoking, to § 8 in the letter. (f) where you have a strict ban on smoking in school and school facilities, I suggest adding the words 'except for areas where persons under 18 do not have access'. I think that if these are enclosed spaces - let's not forget that they can be in schools for example, and very often they are there, school apartments or teaching apartments. The moment we introduce this strict ban, it really means that even the landlord doesn't have the right to set his apartment on fire. I understand the militants, the unlearned smokers, that they nod furiously here. We've all been to schools, I remember from my young years that there were teachers' offices that were used to go to, or that when they were walking around, it smelled like smoking. And what's the big deal, please? Let these people live. I understand that we don't want teenagers smoking in school, but let people live their lives. It's a reservation I have. The last to this part of the smoker, to simplify it, is to § 9, where a colleague of Krákora made certain adjustments to Sections 16 and 18 which, as if they were carrying the responsibility of the operator of the equipment, of any, I lightly relax it in the fact that if he finds out he has to fire. It's just that this hasn't been translated into smoking. I think it would be right for those dictions to be all the same in that law. So here I propose in Section 9 in paragraph. 1 merge the first and second sentences. There is - if the owner of the space and now there are defined all those spaces, the violation of this prohibition, and now the text 'is obliged to ensure compliance with this prohibition. To that end, a person who does not comply with a smoking ban or a ban on the use of an electronic cigarette shall be entitled to invite him not to continue or to leave the premises.' The amendment in the alcohol part states: "If the owner finds that the prohibition is infringed, the person who does not comply with the smoking ban or the prohibition on the use of an electronic cigarette is obliged to call on him not to continue or to leave the premises. That person shall obey the call.' So here I propose, as in the other part, to release the words "to ensure compliance with this ban, to that end it is justified" he is obliged to call on her to leave, just as it is in the alcohol part. I think it's a better solution. Now we're switching to alcohol. In Section 11, I recommend in paragraph 1 that the words "located inside the building intended for trade" be supplemented by the words "exhibition, sales and gastronomic events." I'm afraid even though the D.O.D.'s trying to regulate those liquor sales in some way, these are the kind of actions we don't have. Those aren't even permanent establishments that should be, or permanent establishments that... But they can be - in the Prague Letňany are usually events of all kinds, and I'm afraid we could get into complications at different exhibition sites, that we could get into complications, that suddenly there will be no possibility to sell alcohol and it will need action for this. So add the words "exhibition, sales and gastronomic events" there. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Paragraph 11 to delete point (d) for actions intended primarily for persons under 18 years of age. I've already justified that. We can't tell which events are designed mainly for people under 18 years of age. In a number of cases, this is completely controversial and it is again a ban on the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages. When you have all kinds of children's days, firefighters' events this afternoon, those daddies will normally have one beer if they're not there by car. And I don't see anything wrong with it at all. And I don't see anything in it that we should unlearn the kids, that they can't see Daddy drinking beer. It seems slightly unreasonable to me, this thesis, so I suggest you delete letter (d). [[18.20 hours]] Point (g). If it isn't transformed - and so far I have signals that it will be transformed, that at least the possibility of drinking wine will be inserted there, but it isn't yet, I don't know what design it's in. If it weren't, I suggest writing. g) release, which concerns public sports events where you only want to allow ten-degree beer. I have already talked about this in the general debate or in the debate at first reading, but I consider this general ban on sports events only for ten-degree beer really to be fundamentalism of people who do not live in real life. I understand that at the Sparta - Ostrava football game, we may wish only to drink beer. Although I don't think it really matters, 'cause one or the other bunch of rowdies is gonna come in there already so oily on the outside or sneak in alcohol with him, and it doesn't matter. But the idea that at the races in Chuchli in Prague it will not be possible to have a glass of wine, the idea that at the Brno Grand Prize I will not be able to shower the winner with champagne, because it would probably also be served, the idea that at the marathon, which is running whether Prague, Brno, whatever else, throughout the whole length of the route I will probably be banned from handing out any alcohol, or even I will have to close all the pubs nearby - well no, it is a public transport sporting event, it is public, people go there to watch. Let's not write the laws that we've been thinking about from the start, that we're just taking them to someone and that they won't apply to most things. I don't think that's right. I suggest that point (g) be deleted. Another amendment, and this is the amendment by Mr Krákora, the rapporteur, who very reasonably complements the new paragraph 3: The prohibition on the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages shall not apply in the area referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (b), which is a school and a school facility, for a period not involving teaching or educational activities and for which the school or educational establishment operator has provided this space for purposes other than those specified. This has also been pointed out in a number of committee meetings that this is typically a problem for proms or dances in small municipalities that concern schools and school facilities. At the same time - and it was said by colleague Vondráček about Kroměříž that such events take place in a medical facility, which is unfortunately not excluded here. It's kind of forgotten. And I think it may not be just Kromeriz's problem. I recommend that the new version of paragraph 3 be as follows: The prohibition on the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages shall not apply in the area referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b) which is a health facility, school and school establishment, for the period during which the operator has provided this space for purposes other than those intended. - It's basically the same thing the Ministry only wanted for schools, I just don't define that these aren't school events, but it's for as long as the operator has provided this space for purposes other than what it's intended. This is a proposal for Section 11. Furthermore, I would like to propose to launch without compensation § 12. I know he looks noble. It is a ban on the sale and manufacture of toys imitating the shape and appearance of the packaging of alcoholic beverages. If I have a certain degree of understanding, because you don't want to sell products that mimic smoking products, well, I'm not suggesting you drop it there. I don't really know what it is with the alcoholic beverage wrappers, and I think it's just gonna start a fight. Of course, if the whole thing fell out, it would necessarily have to be reflected in the sanctioning provisions. But I hope that we can agree with the rapporteur that he will read it before the third reading. I move on to § 14 para. 1. If there is no other proposal that will solve the wine, I suggest that part of the sentence behind the semicolon be released. This means: a public sporting event can be sold in occasional sales of alcoholic beverages containing not more than 4,3% volume ethanol. It concerns the same thing I was talking about in Section 11. This means that if there is no other breach, I recommend that we not regulate all sports events in the same way - just a ten beer. § 17 - authorisation for municipalities. It is a proposal that the first part of the empowering provision be deleted, which allows certain public events not to be declared - or would not allow municipalities to declare public events non-smoking. I think we should delete Section 11, whole paragraph 1, that is, the decree of municipalities regulating the surroundings of schools. I think it is extremely difficult to enforce on the issue of smoking, terribly difficult to label. It's only gonna cause problems for the people, it's not gonna bring them anything, it's not gonna do them any good, and there's gonna be a lot of fighting around it. Then I would return briefly to the question of sanctions, this concerns Section 35. I am based on the text really at the moment, which is presented by Mr Krákora, respectively. with the proposals that the rapporteur has already projected there. In Article 35, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 - Sorry, first paragraph three... one. Paragraph 1 (e) (o) - we have established that an offence is committed contrary to Section 19 by a person - first of all, to use an alcoholic drink or to use another addictive substance, although he knows that he will carry out an activity in which he or she could endanger the life or health of his or her or another person or damage property. And paragraph 2 tells me: After taking an alcoholic drink or after taking another addictive substance, it is engaged in an activity in which it could endanger the life or health of its person or other person or damage property or... Paragraph 1 seems completely pointless to me. If I drink and perform, then I understand that I will be punished. If I drank, I knew I was going to be active, and for example, I decided not to do the activity, then I find it completely pointless to put that paragraph 1. So, letter o-- I suggest we drop point one and just leave point two. And in paragraph 4 for an offence, the prohibition of action may be imposed, together with a fine, if it is a violation of the law of a person who is obviously under the influence of alcohol, or sells an alcoholic drink to a person who is obviously affected by alcohol or other addictive substances. I think this is extremely dangerous. As far as children are concerned, I understand. But the sale to a person already under the influence of alcohol will be extremely bordering in a number of cases. If the sanctions are financial, then I think that a ban on activities - a ban on activities for - and to whom this concerns - are not administrative offences, they are only natural persons - a bar that gives someone a sixth beer, and we say that this could be a one-year ban on activities? Adults. He won't evaluate whether he's already drunk enough or not. Seems awfully dangerous to me. I suggest that point (a) be deleted. And point (b) I don't understand it at all, because it's a ban on activity within two years for a person who puts himself in a state and then carries on some sort of activity. [[18.30 hours]] Well, if it's an activity based on other legislation, such as driving a motor vehicle, then I've already got the bans or sanctions in driving a motor vehicle. The idea of giving someone this kind of sanction for two years of prohibition, his personal activities, his personal earnings, for, for example, coming to work - where, of course, he shouldn't come - under the influence of alcohol. Again, it seems incredibly hard and incredibly cruel, and it can lead to the destruction of people. I propose paragraph four to release the whole, as variant one. If it does not pass, then vote separately on (a) and (b) and on their individual release, because I find the bans here to be too strict. The last changes I will have to the penalty clause relate to paragraphs 10 and 10 respectively. 10 § 36, where out of me not quite clear reason, paragraph (s) (1) (i) shall be replaced by the following: 1, which is a failure to fulfil obligations under Section 16 - Section 16 is a ban on serving children and an obligation to expel a possible child if I have one in the restaurant. There we said that we would mitigate and make it real so that the innkeeper wouldn't be absolutely responsible for it, but we shifted, for a vague reason, a fine to 300 grand. I recommend that point (s) be incorporated into point (b) of the same paragraph in a normal manner. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in this Article. 10 would sound - 50,000 1 letter. (b), (p), (q), (s) and on and on and on and on. (c) it would be released and there would not be a special fine of 300,000. These are all the suggestions I have for the press, and I apologize for keeping you for a while. But it really wasn't quite that easy between the press and the amendments to be completely oriental about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with a factual remark, Mrs Válková is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to point out two things in a factual note, because I think it should be here, and now I've checked it out. Austria, which has been given as an example to us, precisely on the basis of poor experience with the legislation of full exemptions introduced last year, adopted a law that will apply since 2018, with an absolute ban on smoking in all the facilities where there is food, regardless of whether it is hot food or cold. That's the first point. And the other. We all love to go to countries like Austria, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, and I've never met anyone before to come sighing that he couldn't breathe on the streets. So just please, when we use arguments of this type, compare them with how we evaluate life on the streets of these tourist, very attractive destinations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u61	Thank you, Madame. Mr Stupčuk will now speak in a detailed debate and Mr Kostřica will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to the amendment, which I have orally justified here in the general debate, is registered under number 3903, and I also refer to his written reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Kostřica will now appear, Mr Snopek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which are listed and have been distributed to you under number 3863. There are six such sub-items. Firstly, it is a ban on smoking in restaurants in so-called gardens, where, contrary to the amendment passed by the constitutionally-legal committee, I would like to make it more than 50 per cent of the total floor area of the outer dining area. This is for the purpose of a complete ban on smoking in a food service establishment, on the one hand, as protection against passive smoking, on the other hand, as a guarantee of the right to safety and health at work of workers working in that establishment. Furthermore, I would like to address the ban on smoking in the internal workplace. There are a large majority of legislative adjustments that you can get to know. Then, in the Labour Code, it would be necessary to change in part 13. - insert a new part of the 13th for part 12, which says that the words "do not smoke in workplaces or in other areas where the effects of smoking are also exposed to non-smokers" are replaced by the words "to comply with the prohibition on smoking in workplaces laid down by specific legislation." As regards the ban on smoking in a car with children, I think it should sound in Section 8 such that in a road vehicle where a person under 18 is located. Perhaps just such an interesting fact that in our regions from 1932 to 1951 the government regulation was in force, which was: Smoking while driving is forbidden to drivers of a motor vehicle. At all, the driver must avoid anything that distracts the driver from driving at the expense of driving safety. Furthermore, I would like to achieve a change in the protection of dwellings. In the common part of the immovable property, the following text should be added: in the common part of the immovable property in residential property and the common part of the building owned or owned by the housing cooperative, or in such a way that smoke does not penetrate its dwelling without the consent of the third party. These are more of those places where there are older flats, where there are corridors that are full of smoke, and, of course, they burden other guerrillas or living in other apartments where there is no smoking. With regard to the constructionally separated space, where in that part in Title II in Section 10 letters. (a) it is: to ensure that this space is an enclosed part of the building, defined by the floor, ceiling or roof structure and fixed walls with closed building blocks such as windows and doors, which do not serve as a passage to places where smoking is prohibited in this way, does not involve more than 50 per cent of the total floor area of public access spaces, and which is ventilated in the presence of persons who smoke, by appropriate and sufficient means, into spaces outside the building, in which it is ensured in the presence of such persons the closure of the building fills by the system in such a way as to avoid the penetration of smoke in places where smoking is thereby prohibited. Last I would like to achieve in the part of the head, in the first head 4 § 17 para. 1 shall read: the municipality may, by a generally binding decree, prohibit smoking and prohibit the use of electronic cigarettes in a public area or other publicly accessible place or public action where such action is accessible to persons under 18 years of age. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u65	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Snopek is here now and Mr Plíšek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u66	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the amendments that have been inserted into the system under number 3906. These are amendments, about 81 amendments. They respond to uncertainty, illogical things in the law, uncontrollable things. It has already been mentioned that there are a number of dangerous things. I have also presented some options so that we can decide things with cold head and reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u67	Thank you. Mr Plíšek will now be ready and Mr Koskuba will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u68	Mr President, dear colleagues, have a nice evening. I will read a very brief amendment concerning the removal of water pipes from the strict regime of the so-called anti-smoking law. Today, by the way, I had the opportunity to take over the 15 070 petents petition that asked us to do so. I therefore in § 8 of the draft law in the letter. (k) I want to add a comma after the words "in the internal area of the food service establishment" - ', except for the use of water pipes'. It is a very simple amendment which I think we could then discuss and approve at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u69	Thank you. Now, Mr Koskuba, Mr Běhounek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, time has progressed and we have spent long hours above the law, which I still consider to be quite necessary in my own way. Because statistics show that more than 60 percent of restaurants are still non-smoking and more than 70 percent of hotels. However, the law is here. And if the Rules of Procedure had allowed me to do so, I would have personally applied to most of the amendments tabled here. Among other things, on the proposal of colleague Plíšek and colleague Zemek, who was involved in water pipes and tea shops, because it is indeed a cultural device rather than a lair of some drug addicts. And so I could go on. As the petitioner aims to protect non-smokers from smokers, I subscribe to my amendment under House document 3732, which - and this has already been said here by several colleagues - concerns electronic cigarettes. The reasoning is very simple. Therefore, if we are mainly protecting non-smokers, it has not yet been shown that electronic cigarettes would be explicitly harmful, then I consider it a mistake if they were excluded from use. For they really help smokers quit smoking. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I stress that I have no personal interest in this matter, because I myself do not use electronic cigarettes. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u71	Thank you. Now, Mr Běhounek, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u72	Mr President, the remaining members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, time flies. I sign up for my amendment, which is introduced in the system under number 3876, concerning § 8. The reasoning shall be in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Adámek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u74	Good evening again. I formally sign up for two amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate. The first is under number 3883 concerning substitution therapy. The second is under number 3735 and concerns adictological services. They are both justified in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u75	Thank you. Just for the record, Mr Koubek, do you properly report to a detailed debate? Thank you. Now, then, Mr Adámek, Mr Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u76	Hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to sign up for an amendment under the designation House document 3548. Although I have, I would say, a comprehensive justification, I will limit myself to just a few sentences and an explanation of why and what led me to present this amendment with my fellow Members - Mr Koskuba and others - in this way. Very briefly. I'm not going to read it by single point, just in a very short way. These points provide for a derogation from the general prohibition on smoking in food service establishments, while defining a specific obligation to establish a specific smoking area within such an establishment. Through this modified establishment of a government bill, the conditions of the catering services establishments with the premises of buildings connected with public transport, with the premises of an international airport or with the premises of health facilities are harmonised. However, in the case of catering establishments, it is necessary to define the maximum area that smoking facilities may occupy within a single establishment. In view of the public interest in the gradual reduction of the use of tobacco in society, it appears to be a fully proportionate restriction of such an area up to a maximum of 50 per cent of the total floor area of the establishment. Without such a restriction, there would otherwise be a risk that these premises would occupy a substantial area or the entire area of the establishment, thus gradually circumventing the law in relation to the general prohibition of smoking. The legislative definition of this condition also, as a whole, is based on Decree No. 268/2009 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Constructions, as amended. Furthermore, on the basis of this amendment, account is taken of the above extension of the exemption from the prohibition of smoking on food services establishments, the adjustment of administrative penalties, not only as regards the definition of specific factual elements, but also as regards the amount of sanctions and the definition of substantive jurisdiction to deal with such administrative offences. By means of transitional provisions, it is left to the owners of the spaces referred to in Section 8 (a). (a), operators of international airports, food service operators and health service providers, sufficient time to adapt their activities to the conditions relating to the new adaptation of the use of tobacco products in those premises. In view of the expected significant size of the investments already made in connection with the existing legislation, and given the significant extent of the construction adjustments that will be necessary in the context of the new legislation, the period of one year after the entry into force of this Act appears to be entirely appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u77	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bendl now, Mr Koubek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u78	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. If I wanted to be a bitch, I wouldn't be too brief. But I will, even though I have a procedural vote for you. First of all, I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 3828. The amendment responds to the opinion of the Ministry of Health that it will be negative costs for municipalities caused by this bill, so the amendment simply states that the costs will be paid by the Ministry of Health and will not be further burdened - I will tell the bureaucracy to burden individual cities and municipalities. The second proposal, procedural - but to be precise, I will read it: In accordance with § 63, enough. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/61 (c) I propose a revision of House of Deputies resolution No. 1017 of the 30th Chamber of Deputies meeting of 15. 12. 2015, to which the Chamber of Deputies designated the Health Committee as a guarantee committee for the discussion of the House Press. I propose that the Guarantee Committee be designated by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The reasons for this are that it is not a material that affects the budgetary behaviour of the Ministry of Health or Health as a whole. This is not a material that deals with treatment or related to people's treatment, but it is mainly a material that will move and decide on people's lives in cities and villages. I therefore propose that the Committee, which will comment on the various amendments tabled by Members and Committees, should be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u79	Before you leave, Mr. Ambassador, I'd like to ask, are you holding up a review - I understand that you didn't vote for a health committee to become a guarantee committee? Because that is a condition for you to request a revision of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u80	I even proposed that this be a committee on public administration and regional development, and the Chamber of Deputies did not pass. And at least as I have read the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber of Deputies must have a guarantee committee, I understand that, but nowhere is it written that it cannot change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u81	I'm not questioning that. I merely asked whether the request for a revision is justified and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's a procedural proposal. In that case, my colleagues, I'll call you from the lobby first. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. For the sake of order, I shall repeat the motion for a resolution as stated here. This is a revision of the resolution The Chamber of Deputies on the assignment of this press as a guarantee committee to the Health Committee and on the proposal that this press be newly given to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. So first, we're going to vote on a review, if this review is accepted, then we're going to vote on an assignment. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the revision of this resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 188. 124 Members and Members are registered, for 31, against 75. This procedural proposal has been rejected. We'll continue the negotiations. I therefore now report to the detailed debate by Mr Koubek and following him by the rapporteur, Krákora. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I sign up for the system for amendments in the system under number 3901. I have reasons for each of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u83	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Krákora's rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u84	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I am signing up for the amendment under number 3897. This amendment concerns a change in the definition of the internal space for the purposes of smoking prohibition. It deals with where new smoking shops will be designed, these are constructionally separate smoking areas, such as in the internal areas of buildings related to transport, transit area of international airports, medical facilities, in the case of closed psychiatric departments and other facilities. It is also proposed that it be freely accessible to internal spaces in public. We discussed banks, passages in business centers, so that it would also be in bowling sports grounds, gymnasiums, gymnasiums, indoor entertainment areas such as cinema, theatre, zoos, as has already been said here, in a reserved outer space. This amendment also deals with the authorisation of the use of electronic cigarettes in public, such as banks, offices, transit area of airports, platforms, shelters, public transport waiting rooms. The exception is given in the supply of alcoholic beverages in schools and school establishments, as we said, unless there is a teaching or educational activity, and it also regulates this amendment to the sale of alcoholic beverages in certain places. So, for example, alcohol may be sold on an annual, farmer's, traditional market, public access to festivals, traditional cultural, dance and other similar events. And as for spirits, they will be able to serve in public open celebrations, traditional cultural and dance events. There is also a justification and there are definitions for this amendment. Thank you for your attention and I am adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u85	I thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone at this point. If that is the case, I will conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if the rapporteur or the Minister will take the final floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for saying, in large part, the very constructive course of this debate. I will only respond very, very briefly to something that has been said here, and I will say some basic position of the Ministry of Health on the amendments that have been made here. I just want to say that some of the things that we are being criticized for are not new in the law. They're valid. And basically, as it turns out, that life went somewhere else, and no one really cared. This requires a ban on the sale of tobacco at events for children, the prohibition of alcohol in school buildings, in health care facilities. Here we learn that it is happening somewhere, but now it is no longer possible under the applicable regulation. So all I'm saying is that it was obvious that life was going a little along the way, and it's being tossed by us today. I'm just talking about the smoking ban on those premises, just like we mentioned. I will think very much about the amendment tabled by Mr Stupčuk here. That means, if it's strictly separated so that there's no smoke leak, if the attendants aren't forced to go in there, then I have to say, I'm gonna think about it very much if it's the price of the law passing. But now I'm not giving a definite opinion. We will be very helpful and we will support all the proposals that lead to what has not been intended, that is to say, various tastings, tastings, serving alcoholic beverages and tastings on the markets, annual markets and all possible ones that have not been named here. I just want to draw attention to perhaps the honourable Chamber of Deputies to what may have led the petitioner, in large part, to the fact that there were quite significant restrictions. And I'll just remind you of the methanol affair, and that there was a reason that every market, every market, every market, every stand couldn't sell anything in any way, because then it was justifiably criticized. However, I promise to involve common sense. Where possible, we will try to be helpful so that we do not restrict life in regions, folk traditions and all sorts of things. And I'm going to end my word so that we can continue this law. Thank you for that. I look forward to further cooperation on this standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u87	Thank you, Minister. Still the rapporteur with the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u88	So, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just for the record: 14 Members have spoken in today's second reading, some twice. In a detailed debate, there were 20 Members, some more times. Several dozens of amendments were tabled, around 40. The proposal to return to the Committee was rejected and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development was not approved by the Guarantee Committee. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-002-015.u89	Thank you, rapporteur. Since no further proposal has been made, I am ending the second reading of this bill. And since it's 18.58, I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
