ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u1	51. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 725/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u2	Mr Vice-President, Members, the bill tabled concerns only one issue, namely the partial adjustment of the rules for raising pensions from pension insurance. The adjustment is that the government could decide on raising pensions, which could decide on a higher increase, but only up to a certain limit, in the case of low valuations according to statistical indices. This limit is an increase of up to 1.7 percent of the average old-age pension, which corresponds to about 200 crowns today. This proposal is, in fact, - here I am disturbed by the rapporteur - the bill is primarily a response to a very low increase in pensions, which was reflected this year. This year, it actually made only 40 crowns. That's why the one-time pension allowance that the House here was discussing was very much. First of all, I would like to stress that this law does not mean that the government will automatically increase this amount every year. It's just an option given to the government, and we're not thinking of anything new, either. We're going back to a scheme that's been in place for 15 years. Over the last 15 years, I think the previous governments used it three times, and it was even set so that there was no upper limit. So that - and for the very reason that we can follow these rules as soon as possible within the next regular period of increase in pensions, that is to say, for an increase from January 2017, the effectiveness of the Act is proposed from 1 August 2016, because the legislation governing the increase in pensions is to be issued by 30 September of each calendar year under the Pension Insurance Act. For this reason, the Government also submitted a proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the bill at first reading. So I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will take this measure to the benefit of our pensioners, so that the situation is no longer repeated that the valorisation is merely symbolic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u3	I thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u4	Hello, Mr Vice-President, hello, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. She said almost everything to the secretary. Even that it would be appropriate to discuss this at first reading. She explained the reasons why this should be done. It's just a few notes that this regulation really is nothing new, or virtually nothing new. the proposal is nothing new because, as has already been said, it was valid before 2011, and no government has abused it. I think we need the government to have that option. After all, it has the responsibility for the pension system and Parliament has the opportunity to keep an eye on it, but in other ways, through the budget, etc. etc. So I'm just adding that I'd like us to agree together that we could approve this at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u5	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I am registering two applications with priority rights. First Member of the Laudát, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just briefly, on behalf of two MPs, TOP 09 and ODS, I give the veto for the procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u7	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to explain why our club is one of those two vetoes. [[He's waiting to calm down in the O.R.]] Thank you. Let us remember the last time we discussed the issue of pensions, it was a proposal for one-off pension payments, when the government proposed the same procedure as today - approve it at first reading, we need it, we hope you all will. The government proposed an extraordinary pension of CZK 600. At the moment we put the veto, our colleagues from the government bench threw themselves at us with a huge criticism that we took the liberty of doing so. You know the outcome of the hearing. In the end, the contribution was not 600 crowns, but 100 percent higher, 1200 crowns. And look, that's how I open my server, then I look at the billboard, I see the orange color there, the rose - and it says: social democracy - we have passed an extraordinary pension of CZK 1,200. And it should be in parentheses to be true and the whole message, because it is true, but in order for it to be whole, it should be there: thanks to the veto of the right-wing opposition, because otherwise we would have pushed half if it were the way we wanted it to be. And those are the facts. Madam Secretary is smiling, she didn't push the government, we helped her, and we pushed this place together. In this bill, both the Government and the Minister appear that who is best in favour of this bill by one vote is in favour of increasing pensions, and who is opposed, is not in favour of increasing pensions. That is not really the case, and I must strongly reject this interpretation. As soon as we had a debate on the extraordinary pension, on behalf of our political party, I offered an expert debate on what the valorisation formula should look like. I said that we can imagine that apart from the two parameters that are there today, that means the level of inflation and the average wage, respectively. increasing the average wage that we can imagine, e.g. one of the parameters will be the amount of economic growth. And this turned out last year, respectively. This would have been shown in the next year because last year growth was 4.3 % and inflation was extremely low. And it's both good news, that's what I'm saying. It is good news that the economy is growing, the economy is growing, the number of jobs is growing, while inflation is growing much less. What does it mean when the moment they grow... [[The speaker is jamming the noise from the O.R.]] I can see he's interrupting. But that's the job of the one sitting upstairs, so I'd ask him to be fair. As the economy grows, jobs grow, wages rise. And if inflation is low, real wages are rising, and that's good news. That, combined with these two factors, economic growth and low inflation, according to the current valuation formula, pensions are growing too little, we agree on that. You forgot to say, dear colleagues from the government, that when we proposed an extraordinary increase of 1.2%, you voted against. Not all of us, to be fair, but most of you voted against. And we could have had it as the basis for 2017. We think there may be a situation where pensions are raised in a different way from a standard valuation formula. We just don't think that this decision should be held by the government. This is the first dispute we have. So I want to make it very clear that we do not want the principle as such, but who has the authority. The Chamber of Deputies approves the state budget, it is the law, the biggest expenditure item in each state budget is pension expenditure, and I think it is right that such a law should be brought by the government to the House, and then we can argue about the parameters of such an increase, whether it is a good thing or a bad thing. Now we've got 1.7 percent proposed here, but it could also be 1.8 %, 1.85 %, 1.65 % etc. Moreover, the bill does not take into account at all, for example. economic growth. I think there's something completely different in the moment... One day there will be stagnation and one day there will be a recession. And the moment we're in recession, and it's another government, we're in agreement, and it's going to have this tool in its hands, so it's dangerous for the state of public finances. If, even during the recession, the Chamber of Deputies, and the Senate, decide to increase pensions exceptionally, it is fully legitimate. So I would just ask that in the discussion that will follow, we do not simplify it to who is in favour, wants to raise pensions, and who is against, does not want to add to our pensioners. It's just not like that. I'm sure we in the committees will be looking for a consensus on how to adjust the valorisation formula, and we will certainly not rule out an emergency situation, a bill proposal and a debate on the law. It bothers us that the government is supposed to have that power, we're bothered by the danger, and I'm talking about any government that does this kind of thing in the election year. Because we have to realize that this increase, if we go the right way, not the one-off contribution, that increase is permanent, and we can't say that it's just about 7 billion. - it's seven in one year, but in the next it's another seven, which means in ten years it's 70 - one decision. And if the irresponsible government makes that decision three times in a row when the mandate is four years old, it could be almost 250 billion in four years. I don't want to count 20-year-olds. So that's why we gave the veto. We will not propose rejecting the law at first reading, because it is the right discussion about what the valorisation formula should look like. We as the Czech Republic may be in such a situation for the first time that there is high economic growth and almost zero inflation. You also know that maybe it was deflation. We are having a debate on other forums, on other opportunities, on interventions by the Czech National Bank, which at least raised inflation to the 0.5 if I read today's status at the end of February, that annual inflation was 0.5 percent. If, again, economic growth is somewhere around 3% in 2016, the calculation could be the same as for this year. And that's why it's right that the bill is here. That's why we're ready to debate this matter-of-fact, calmly, without major political attacks. But don't be mad at us. We don't want to put this one-sided instrument in the hands of the government. And we want to have a debate about those parameters, why 1.7. And is it always the same number? Wouldn't it be much better to have it parameterized? And maybe we can think of another parameter in these debates besides inflation, average wages, economic growth. Maybe we can think of another one. It could be more stable, and it could be better. That's why we put the veto at first reading for our club. We have demonstrated a concrete proposal that we wanted to increase pension for pensioners more than there was CZK 1,200 in the end. So that's what we voted for, and we wanted about 1.2% to do that. Because I've already recorded these votes, so I'm gonna ask the secretary or government colleagues not to say we don't want to answer it. Let's just say that we didn't agree on the form, on the measure of who has the authority, and that we're going to look together to improve the valorization formula. Because I say, in the course of high growth, low inflation shows that the formula is not fair for our pensioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u9	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register three applications. First, Mr Vilímec will appear and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister concluded that this bill is advantageous for pensions, for pensioners. But he is mainly beneficial and advantageous to the government that governs, because that is the main reason for submitting this government bill. You know, if I wanted to evaluate some of the legislative actions of this government, I could sum it up in a simple way. In addition to some attempt to centralise data on citizens, entrepreneurs, something to enter privacy, individual freedoms, there is also, last but not least, an obvious effort to strengthen executive power, which means government levels at the expense of Parliament as a legislature. I don't want to go into the past here, and it doesn't concern the Minister's department, but let's remember a year ago when we were debating whether the Chamber of Deputies or Parliament should give up control over the issue of bonds. Or we recently approved, even though we didn't, but the government coalition approved the law on electronic records of sales. Whoever carefully read the bill must have been aware when he read the provisions that the government is entitled to decide that some sales and some sectors will be excluded from the jurisdiction or diction of this law. And I could do such things - there are many such things and I could go on. Today, again, there is a standard which, in turn, takes Parliament's power to decide on raising pensions outside the legal mechanism. I've been reading a very detailed explanatory report. She is very brief, because the Minister herself spoke of the fact that it is only a partial change of rules, and actually deals briefly with the history of the scheme for the valorisation of pensions. It also reminded the Minister that the government had already decided on raising pensions, on extraordinary increases in pensions, before 2011. She didn't even have the upper limit. That's true, and it didn't work out too well, even though it only used the warrant three times. That is why the law was passed in 2011, when some arbitrary possibility of government, namely the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, was significantly limited. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could therefore not deviate from defined rules and increase -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u11	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I'm going to ask the left side of the hall specifically for silence. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This means that the Department of Labour, as you know, could not deviate from the defined rules and increase pensions beyond the exactly calculated valorisation on a regular basis. Mr Stanjura spoke before me about the need to look at the rules, the indices, or simply the rules that govern pensions. There I think there's a buried dog, and she doesn't exactly benefit the elderly. Yes, we are moving in the situation of very low consumer price growth, the economy is growing and we know very well how in 2014 and 2016 it was not possible to project real increases in pensions for valorisation purposes, so we know well that the increase in pensions according to the valorisation framework would be about CZK 69 in 2014 and this year only CZK 40, which is the basic figure of 9 percent. I must remind you that in 2014, this government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs responded, in turn, to an extraordinary, sort of transitional measure, by increasing the percentage of pensions up to 1.8 percent. Last year, and this should also be heard here, because of the coalition disputes, the government actually resigned. She didn't come up with an increase in pensions, but she did come up with some sort of financial assistance to the elderly. By our proposed increase in the pension percentage of 1.2%, the House or the government coalition refused, and thus, even if the contribution eventually increased, it actually damaged the pensioner, because the one-off contribution does not even count in the valorisation framework. I have also read in the explanatory report, perhaps I have well understood that at least by 2020, at least this results from the evidence, from the explanatory report, the government does not count entirely on using this institute or using the needs of some extraordinary valorisation, so it is stated there. I also need to repeat what has been said by Mr Stanjura that I am not entirely clear of the specific level of the indicator. If this is due to the fact that it corresponds to 200 crowns, I don't know. In fact, the explanatory memorandum merely limits itself to the statement that the so-called the target solution, and I do not consider this to be a target solution, but so be it, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs discussed with authorized experts of coalition parties who proposed to allow the government to increase revenue up to 1.7 percent. I'm quoting that directly from the explanatory statement. The explanatory memorandum states that for the following period, from 2017, the development of decisive statistical indicators will be more standardised and, according to current estimates, valorisation could be estimated between CZK 200 and 300 per month. I don't know. I'm reading the explanatory notes. I read it so that the government does not expect any higher increase in the percentage of pensions paid and the use of the mechanism 1.7 % for the period up to 2020. I am, of course, convinced that the existing mechanism is not entirely ideal for pensioners, that there is a real need to have a debate on this in committees, but on the other hand, I do not think that the government should receive a sort of bianko check here so that it can freely increase pensions - always before the elections, as has ever happened in the past. In the event of an emergency, when there is a will, as it was in 2014, so it reacted when there is no will, as it was in 2015, respectively. is not an agreement at the government level with the Minister of Finance, so it came with a one-off contribution only. Indeed, I do not consider any transfer of powers to the Government in this area entirely necessary and, on the contrary, such a restriction on Parliament's legislative role is rather risky. I was here in the Chamber of Deputies when the 2011 law was passed and, if I remember correctly, the opposition at that time did not criticize too much that the government could not deliberately raise pensions. On the contrary, it has actually enabled the opposition more to valorize pensions through an amendment to the law. Otherwise, if this government has that possibility and the valorisation mechanism doesn't change, it will always happen, unfortunately, with the theme of just some current coalition, the debates of some authorized coalition experts and opposition control - and it can happen that someone else will again be in opposition in the next parliamentary term, the one who is in the government coalition today - it will actually be prevented. [[16.10 hours]] We are in favour of really setting up a valorisation mechanism in the context of some general discussion, and not only at the level of coalition experts, but also with the opposition, because it is a serious subject, so that it is beneficial for pensioners to actually project real economic growth there. Anyway. But I'm not convinced it's going to go the way of some bianca check for the government, which, for some reason, decides either to use this bianca check or not to use it. That is why we do not agree with this procedure. But we are certainly prepared to discuss in the committees not only the partial change presented by the Minister or the Government, but indeed how to set up a more sensible and better valorisation mechanism so that it really is not only beneficial for the government, but it was particularly beneficial for pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now request a speech from Mrs Chalánková and prepare Mr Opálka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many have already been said. This amendment was created outside the legislative plan of the government's work. This proposal was made at Coalition Council 7. 12. 2016. According to Section 67, which allows the government to change the rules for raising pensions only by regulation, the government could also decide on a higher increase than that resulting from the rules in question. This means a 100% increase in prices today, i.e. a whole unit of inflation, and one third of the growth in real wages. The limit was set at 1,7 %. This proposal was also submitted without presenting the impact of regulation, so-called RIA. I also join my previous speakers when I do not recommend that Parliament give up control and this legislative power to regulate the amount of pensions. I agree that the valorisation rules on the basis of which valorisation will be calculated may change. Therefore, I also recommend that this press be referred to committees for discussion. It is also possible to look at the consumer basket of pensioners and to adjust these rules according to this consumer basket on the basis of statistical data. What is important is that we are talking about the system of ongoing, but not the fundamental reform of the pension system, which we are fundamentally lacking. Pension reform has been abolished, so-called the second savings pillar, and it was replaced by nothing. We have heard that in the past, the government has exercised its power to raise and valorise pensions only three times and the limit has not been set here. Yet we want to spare the government such temptation. And I don't want to think that this way the government could address in some way, for example. voters before the election. Nevertheless, Parliament has the right to participate in such a determination of the valorisation of pensions in connection with the state budget. Because the pension account is currently about 30 billion in deficit. CZK annually and these income to the pension account is constantly missing. The pension account is, of course, paid in connection with the state-wide economy and it is important that this economy works with the creation of high added value. Without that pension, there's nothing to pay off. And such a fuss that this ongoing system will work forever. Oh, yeah. You can see the retirement table while maintaining the amount of your pension. The retirement age is constantly increasing if we want to maintain this level of pensions at all. It is therefore necessary to proceed to a fundamental and radical reform of the pension system. Of course, I agree that even our pensioners have the right to participate in the wealth of society and to reap the benefits of this wealth of society. Tops 09 also approved the amendment, or voted in favour of approving the amendment, which would provide for an exceptional valuation of 1,2 % from April 2016. But government MPs refused extraordinary valorisation. I agree with my previous speakers that this press should move forward to the committees so that a proper debate can be conducted on the possible modification of valorisation parameters. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u15	I thank you and now Mr Opálka will appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, what is new, what has not yet been said? On the one hand, I would like to point out that this is not just about valorizing pensions, but also about valorizing amounts under two compensation laws. Then I would like to say that the problem of valorisation is also addressed by one working group within the expert committee on pension reform, which works at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Perhaps it is a pity that representatives from individual political parties did not share what the task force had done. Perhaps we would go a little further in the discussion and discuss things that have already been discussed from a different perspective. So if we discuss the bill in committees and in second and third readings, the question is, in what form, but above all, at which time it will take effect. Since, in order to be implemented in the case of 2017, the government, under the law which is still in force, must decide on this by 30 September. Of course, in order to make a decision, it needs the necessary data for both the passed law and the statistics. What happened last year, when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs brought to the government a proposal for extraordinary valorisation through the law, as it was in 2014 for 2015, so it was thrown off the table by coalition partners. Then it was too late to deal with something when it was discovered that statistics said that the increase was 40 crowns. That is why it came with an extraordinary contribution to the pension, to which 1,200 crowns claim today where anyone, only I do not. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] And I'd like to repeat it as it was. The government, in agreement with the coalition, came up with six hundred. Then there were three proposals on the committee. Nine hundred crowns - colleague Sklenák. A thousand crowns - a colleague has Zavadil. A thousand two hundred crowns - me. A thousand crowns passed the committee. At second reading, I also tabled an amendment to this amendment, which has passed, to CZK 1,200. And I thank you all for not voting against, and I think 156 Members voted in favour. So the law would pass if any of the clubs opposed, but I think that as a signal to the company and especially to senior pensioners, it was positive. We should not abuse our position, whether media or political, and make up who has pushed what. We all supported it. And as far as the powers of the government are concerned. I don't understand what's going on here, when the government has the authority to raise a minimum wage without a problem. When a government without a problem has the power to increase the living and existential minimum, which relates subsequently to increasing the benefits of state social support. That's a lot more volume than what's being offered here. So the threat we're talking about, I think it's just politics, because even the past has shown that this regime has not been abused. And that it would primarily be used in situations that have happened for this year so that valorization can become proper. Become part of the foundation for valorization next. [[16.20 hours]] I assumed that the government would use at least 100 crowns for 2017, which we have reviewed with a one-off contribution this year, so that it would anchor them to the foundation for further valorisation. Well, let's see how we discuss it on the committee. I recommend that there be an agreement to shorten the deadline, because without that, we would not have solved 2017 if needed. You know, there is talk of a deficit not on the pension fund, because there is no fund, but on the pension account, which is a virtual account and basically just monitors total revenue and total expenditure. I would like to say that the minimum pension currently in the Czech Republic is CZK 3,217, mainly due to the fact that we have CZK 2,440 in the fixed amount. The question is whether valorisation should continue in the future, in particular, by increasing the fixed amount so as to ensure that the minimum pension is above the minimum of living and that there will not be a requirement for payment of other social benefits. The question, however, is: it is a level increase and valorisation will, of course, affect not only pensions valued, but the fixed amount will also be reflected in pensions newly admitted in the given year, as it is in fact this year. So it is also for pensioners who will be entitled to pension benefits in a given year. We have an average pension of CZK 11,348, but oddly enough, we already have a pension of between CZK 50 and 100,000. It's not an overpass, but it shows that from CZK 3,217 to £100,000 there is no levelization. There is a certain merit, although of course there is also great solidarity. If pension money is missing, I call on you to finally proceed to discuss the bill, which I am also one of the petitioners for the KSČM parliamentary club, and this is the abolition of the ceiling on social security contributions, as it was done for general health insurance. There are various estimates, from CZK 9 to CZK 18 billion, that it should be beneficial in a year. So much for the issue, maybe a little bit further behind this issue. But, as I understand it, the debate that should be conducted in committees and at second reading will probably be more rugged than the government's proposal itself and it will need to be well-founded in all parameters. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause by Members of the KSČM]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u17	Thank you, too. I note Mrs Adamová's factual remark. Before I give her my word, I'll read the note. Mr Laudát apologizes from today's meeting, and Vice-President Václav Horáček will represent him as President of the club. Please, madam, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just making a point. And I don't want to be annoying about it anymore, because every time there's a question that concerns retirement, I'm also talking about it, so very briefly. We still have not yet received any functional pension reform from this government, which would not only be thinking of existing pensioners, but also of those who are now of working age who will be affected by pensions in a few years, perhaps even tens of years. But for them there is still no really functional sustainable solution that would provide them with a dignified pension. I think that we should not resign on this, and the government that has decided to accept pensions only in the form of destruction of a system should also propose its own solution. And as important as it is to focus, of course, on existing pensioners, I do not doubt that, so I remind you that we are waiting for the future in the current demographic development, which is an undeniable fact, a bad situation for current taxpayers who should not retire until years later. Therefore, once again, I appeal to the government not to resign and also to take steps in this direction to stabilise the system for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u19	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we learned now? I think that Mirek Opálků, thank him for the summary, here he said very carefully what really happened and what is in play. I wasn't smiling because I was smiling about something that a colleague here said, but I'm laughing because it's my nature, I don't like frowny people. That's the first point. Second point. I believe that what has been said here, whether the chairman of the ODS club or the chairman of the TOP 09, is true, that they want to debate it and that they are not interested in this matter being swept under the table. I'm convinced of that. Okay. So they brought in what we suggested. However, I would suggest that we deal with this matter within a short period of time, i.e. within a shorter period of 30 days, which I will ask then for a vote to be taken. And just a note. We inherited the non-valorisation mechanism in some way. That was here. And it's not normal for old people to pay 40, 50, 60 crowns. That's why this proposal was prepared, which is very late in time. Because if this, as has been said here, fails to approve everything by August, it may not apply for 2017. For these reasons, too, I ask you to support the proposal to shorten the deadline so that we can debate what has been said here from the right or what has been said from the left and come to a conclusion that would then be meaningful. And my final point. I trust the government not to abuse it. I have no reason not to believe it. That's speculation. When the government takes advantage of it, then come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u21	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. If so, I will end the general debate and ask the appellant or rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any such proposition. I'm registering an application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I shall once again read the motion for a resolution before voting on it. But there's a problem with the voting card. In that case, I'm going to check you out one more time and ask you to sign up with your cards again. We can begin the vote. We will vote on bringing this proposal to the committee on social policy as a committee on guarantee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with serial number 256, registered 136 Members, for proposal 136, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. [[16.30 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion. I'm not registering any suggestions. In that case, in the general debate, there was still a proposal to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the hearing deadline to 30 days. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 257, registered 138 Members, for proposal 106, against 26. I note that this proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been shortened. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-008-051.u22	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, colleagues. The next item is:
