ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security and the Amendment of Related Acts (the Cyber Security Act), and some other laws (the House Press 852/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce a bill amending the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration, the Act on Cyber Security and some other follow-up laws. The aim of the proposal is to make the management of the creation and use of information systems in public administration in the Czech Republic more effective. To this end, the Ministry of the Interior is entrusted with the competence to prepare the information concept of the Czech Republic. This should set objectives in the area of public administration information systems for a period of five years and establish uniform principles for the procurement of public administration information systems. Information concept of the Czech Republic, which will then be approved by the government of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the government shall be determined by an institution which will ultimately decide on the concept of a specific information element of public administration built by a public authority in the event that the Ministry of the Interior gives a negative opinion on the concept of the system. So far, the final decision has been made on the state body which has prepared the concept, thus strengthening the role of the Government of the Czech Republic in this matter. The proposal also envisages the inclusion of the most widespread operational information systems under the Public Administration Information Systems Act. The Act will thus apply to information systems for the management and development of human resources, the Act on remuneration, electronic filing systems, information systems for accounting or financial resources management and e-mail systems. However, the operating information systems of municipalities and regions will continue to remain excluded from the legal regime. The bill also responds to the results of the previous experience with the application of the law. This is mainly related to the modification of terminology or terminology. The proposed legislation also includes an amendment to the Cyber Security Act. The main change is the introduction of a new category of obliged persons of the information or communication system operators. Those persons have not yet been subject to direct obligations and have not been subject to any penalties. I have been informed by Mr Pilný that he would welcome an extension of 30 days. If this is loaded, I'm saying I don't have a problem with it, that I agree with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 28. 6. draft amendment of Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on Information Systems of Public Administration. On the part of the petitioner, it is the Ministry of the Interior, it is presented as a relatively simple amendment reflecting the need for regulation of management and management of information systems of public administration. At the same time, the Czech Government resolution 889 on further development of information and communication technologies for public administration services is being fulfilled. At the same time, it anchors the legislative and coordination role of the Ministry of the Interior in the field of long-term management of public administration information systems. However, some fundamental changes or uncertainties arise in more detailed study of the bill's proposal. A clearly dominant change is the projection of the above-mentioned Government Resolution No. 889 in the paragrafo version of the Act, this includes financial limits and coordination by the Ministry of the Interior. The question arises as to whether, in the case of the transfer of certain activities to a state enterprise, this will not become a monopoly player in this field using an in-house selection procedure. A fundamental change is the new § 9e, which obliges the operator to transmit data and operational data, subject to sanctions, without undue delay, to the request of public administration information systems controllers, see Section 7 para. 3 and 4, regardless of what arrangements may be in force. Another important change is the exclusion of some agendas from this law, e.g. This concerns written services and e-mails, without any further logical justification. Although it is mentioned several times that the amendment does not concern local authorities, it is nevertheless stated in recitals 24 and 25 that the competences of the Ministry of Interior may relate to local authorities in the case of delegated powers. And there's more points like that. I therefore believe that we should leave room for a wider debate in the committee plenary, and I welcome, of course, Mr Pilný's updated proposal to extend the discussion by 30 days. In conclusion, I would like to make one request towards the Minister. I quote the reasoning on paragraph 40 of the explanatory memorandum: "The key concept of the Public Administration Information Systems Act is the public administration information system. With regard to the width of its definition, respectively. the definition of information activity, includes the concept of an information system of public administration and the concept of information and communication technology in public authorities, and therefore it is not necessary to work with it in the law on information systems of public administration. On the contrary, its retention, in addition to the concept of an information system of public administration, may complicate the interpretation of the law." [[15.40 hours]] I completely understand, Minister, that the development of legislation is based on precise and professional formulas. On the other hand, the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which is proposed as a committee of guarantee, are composed of representatives of various professions. It would be welcome, Minister, for your representatives to try more lay, yet professionally, to clarify the nature of all the proposed changes. Thank you in advance. In the sense of the above, I recommend releasing the House's press 852 into the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u5	Thank you, Madame. At this point, I am opening up a general debate in which I am registering two applications. With the first to the microphone of Mr Klán, please prepare Mr Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me make some basic remarks here on the amendment to the Act on Cyber Security, or, if you wish, on the information systems of the public administration. Overall, I have to say that an amendment to the original law is necessary, but the proposed proposal as a whole does not correspond to the parameters of the legislation according to which regulation is to be effectively implemented in the given area, in this case the establishment of rules for management, economic efficiency, security and functional characteristics of public administration information systems in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, the proposed amendment is not implemented at the necessary level. In the proposal of the amendment or in the original law we do not find certain key terms, or even. are incorrectly defined and lacks a system view of the problem. This implies that cyber security is desirable to create as a system and also to manage it. Since this is not the case in the bill's proposal, such a law potentially triggers the malfunction of the cyber security system. The non-systemic approach occurs in the draft law in incorrect or missing definitions of key concepts. The rapporteur has already spoken about this. Let me give you a few examples here. Often the definition of key concepts uses a definition in a circle, so-called. Tautology. I don't know what you're doing at the Home Office, Mr. Secretary, if you're in circles with the officials who write it, because the tautology makes it impossible to understand what the term means. Example § 2 letter. (b) where it is stated that Article 2 (b) of the Act applies. (b) the critical information structure of the element or system of the critical infrastructure element. It is about defining the same way as defining an official that an official is an official or a Member is a Member. That is absolutely true, but I have not learned anything new about what an official is or what a Member is. There are many such tautologies in the law, and the proposed amendment does not remove them at all. This deficiency is also reflected in the novel itself - see for example. Section 6a, where the terms of the information system administrator of critical information infrastructure are used, the operator of the information system of critical information infrastructure, while the law does not properly define what the critical information infrastructure is. It is similar with other concepts, such as: significant information system, etc. What is an important information system? What are his criteria? The user of the law doesn't know anything. How can this law be used for effective management, Minister? But there are a number of such confusions in the law. Of course, I'd like to return the law to your work or to rework or write something completely different. But I'm definitely not gonna do it. We will try to correct this on the Public Administration Committee, perhaps with your contribution or your officials' contribution, because we cannot do it, as the rapporteur has already said, because we are there from different areas. But to consider whether this press has yet to order other committees, such as the Security Committee or the Economic Committee, to enjoy it properly, because this bill really is completely insane. And I'm saying, there's a lot of tautology in there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u7	Thank you. And please the next enlisted, and that is Mr Ivan Pilný to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, although I am not such an expert on cyber security as Mr Klán, however, the problem I see in this law as regards cyber security - so we at VEZ have recently received a directive from the European Commission concerning the area of cyber security for the whole of Europe and the unification of those systems. The Government is to comment on this directive within 30 days, but it has not yet done so. It will certainly have a significant impact on this law. Second thing. Finally, he was appointed so-called digital champion or coordinator of the digital agenda. That's Mr. Tomáš Prouza. If this function is not to end in the production of papers that will agree in some way or disagree with the positions that take different advice, it should also be equipped with some competence and perhaps legislation. This is not included there, although tomorrow at the Office of the Government, the Prime Minister will have a press conference on eGovernment. So there are a number of problems that certainly take time and require some discussion. Therefore, as already announced, I am filing a motion to extend the deadline for this law by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u9	Yes, I am. We will vote on this in conclusion. I am asking if anyone else is reporting for the debate. [[This is Ambassador Goldilocks.]] Mr. Ambassador, but you're applying as a Member of the Sedlář. So you're pushing the wrong button. But it doesn't matter. Come to the microphone. So Mr. Mr. Zlatuška has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u10	Madam President, thank you. I would just like to technically correct my colleague Klán here. The definition in the circle is not tautology. Tautology is a statement that is true regardless of the truth of the ingredients in every circumstance. The definition in the circle is something completely different. He used the word that he repeated several times in a completely wrong way. I'm sorry about the pedagogical insertion. Of course, there are other false words in this law, which have also fallen several times, where I am blaming myself for not having heard from me earlier. Such cyber security doesn't mean cybernetics are dangerous or cybernetics should help us, or even a feedback system is in this. It is known to be a mistranslation, a malfunctioning extension of cyberpunk cyber, a purely favorable term that has nothing to do with cybernetics. Unfortunately, Czech and Czech law is in a situation where this word is used in a way that if politicians use it this way, it's okay if a professor uses it this way, so he should return his diploma, especially if he's from a similar field. So, with this thing in mind, I'm also responding for tautology. Tautology is harmless. It's more or less a sounding statement that wouldn't have happened if it hadn't. It can be roughly identified with pleonasm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u11	Thank you, and I am now registering two factual points. With the first microphone to the head of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Karel Rais will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u12	I do not want to talk about tautology, I want to talk about the fact that Mr Zlatuška has flagrantly violated the Rules of Procedure. Using a foreign card is illegal, unacceptable. Someone can't report as a colleague. You can log in from any bench, it is not bound to the place where you are sitting, but to the card. And that's very serious. This was also the case here in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Rais's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u14	Hello. I don't want to lecture anyone, rather to draw attention to such a practical problem, and that is the incompatibility of information systems within the public administration. When one discusses with ministers here, I find intimidating that there is a need for up to 40 unconnected incompatible information systems in one resort. And if I take the financial appreciation of those individuals who are in charge, that is. Thirty, forty, fifty thousand crowns a month, so these people... while a decently paid informatic or capable informatic moves elsewhere, here is simply a huge problem to ensure the compatibility of the information systems. So one thing is right, but it would be good for us to look at it from the practical point of view. So just a real note. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u15	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? He's interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u16	I would merely sum up the course of the debate. Five Members have resigned, two of them with a proper application, and three Members have spoken with fact, Professor Zlatuška has presented his training factual input to us, and a proposal has been made by Mr Pilný during the debate to extend the deadline for discussion in the committees by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u17	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. Therefore, at this point, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? The vote is closed, it is a vote with order number 194. Registered 137 present, for 104, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Mr Klán, Mr Pilný. So, Mr. Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u18	As I have already announced in the general debate, I propose to the Committee on Security and also to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u19	Thank you. Mr. Pilný withdraws. At this point, I'm going to vote.... Mr. Ambassador, you're applying for action. I can't let that go. If you want to make a suggestion, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u20	Thank you for the floor. Given that cyber security and defence are involved in Military Intelligence, I propose that the Defence Committee discuss it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u21	Anyone else? Just in case, I'll ask. All right, let's proceed to the vote. First, we will vote on the Security Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 195, to which 139 are registered. For 59, against 21. This proposal was rejected. We will now deal with the proposal for discussion in the Economic Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? The vote is closed, it is a vote with order number 196. Registered 139 present, for 78, versus 15. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. We will now deal with Mr Chalupa's proposal for a debate in the Defence Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? The vote is closed, it is a vote with order number 197. Registered 139 present, for 66, against 19. This proposal was rejected. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as another committee. We are now going to take a vote on Mr Pilný's proposal to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days, stating that the Minister has given his agreement in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 198, to which 137 are registered, for 108, against no one. I note that the deadline for committee discussions has been extended by 30 days, and I am ending the first reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-006-056.u22	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I'll try to keep it going very well. The next item is the item
