ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u1	144. Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons /code of document 14422/15, COM(2015) 750 final/ /German press 668-E/ Mr. Minister, please. I just point out that this proposal has been submitted by the Government through the Committee on European Affairs, and the Minister of the Interior will present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the aim of the proposal for a directive is to respond to the security threats of a terrorist nature that the European Union is currently facing. The immediate impulse following the submission of the proposal for a directive was the tragic events in France of November last year, which were committed using illegal firearms. Although these events have shown the need for an effective fight against illegal weapons, the proposal for a directive does not provide any solutions in this respect. The proposed changes, in particular the absolute ban on the possession of automatic weapons by private persons and companies, and the attempt to impose a full ban on the possession of part of semi-automatic weapons, the efforts to implement a new strict regulation on the possession, depreciation of weapons or the obligation to register expansion weapons and replicas, on the contrary, will be disproportionately and purposefully impacted on the holders of legal weapons. The proposal for a directive certainly contains changes that can be accepted, e.g. This is an attempt to enforce a ban on the sale and acquisition of weapons and their parts in a way of communication. remotely or requiring the introduction of an obligation to verify the medical fitness of holders of arms certificates. In these cases, however, it is a measure which already contains the Czech rule of law. The proposal also tries to clarify some concepts and correct the still unclear provisions. Although these changes are all heading in the right direction, their specific wording will still have to be thoroughly debated in order to avoid duplication and inaccuracies. The proposal for a directive is now being discussed in the working bodies of the Council. The Dutch Presidency proposes yet another tightening-up. Between the forbidden...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u3	I am asking for peace in the House so that the Minister can argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u4	Not so much to argue, but so that colleagues can hear. And a colleague. According to the Dutch Presidency's proposal, illegal weapons should be included in new arms. I find such changes unacceptable. Such a broad ban on semi-automatic weapons would have an impact on internal order and also on the defence of our state. The Czech Republic is strongly defined in all negotiations against such unjustified interference with the rights of legal holders of arms. I consider the situation so serious that I will submit this material for discussion to the Government of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interest of the Chamber of Deputies in the impact of the planned directive on arms, which has already been reflected in the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs number 206. I fully agree with this motion for a resolution. Just let me have a few more numbers called. Under the line. The point is that, according to the proposal in the milder variant, it would be a ban and a necessary redemption of about 50,000 weapons, in the stricter proposal advocated by the Dutch Presidency, it would be several hundred thousand weapons, almost half of all weapons permitted in the Czech Republic, i.e. more than 300 thousand weapons. It would certainly have implications for the state budget, the calculations are moving on the lower limit somewhere around half a billion crowns, but it would rather be a number of times higher. From my point of view, we need to fight illegal weapons. It does not leave me calm that it is still possible to buy e.g. in the Czech Republic. Kalashnikov. According to police reports, it costs about 7,000 crowns. And that's the part that has to be fought, that means illegal weapons. I think that the European Commission, the European institutions here are scoring their own goals, and that it is these kinds of regulations that Europe is trying to achieve that are aggravating the perception of the European Union by the citizens of these countries, which, in my view, is a pity. We cannot accept the proposal for this measure to this extent, and this is how we are expressing ourselves and expressing ourselves in the negotiations at the European Commission and the relevant working groups dealing with this issue today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u5	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on European Affairs has discussed the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, a resolution, an opinion and a motion for a resolution of the House is part of the House's 668-E press. I ask the rapporteur, who is Mr Roman Váňa, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u6	Good afternoon. I would like to inform you about the discussions of the Committee on European Affairs, which has already dealt with the proposal for this directive, and I would like to make one more summary of the arguments that the Minister has already made in part. I would like to sum them up in the concrete effects that this directive would have on the Czech Republic. The proposal for a directive, as it is prepared, aside from the fact that it is based on a factually incorrect assumption that it is possible to combat terrorism by restricting the legal possession of weapons, which is an incorrect assumption, would also have other significant effects not only on the population but also on the economic interests of individual EU states. The proposal for this Directive provides for a total ban on private possession, production, sale of automatic weapons and semi-automatic weapons which have the appearance of automatic weapons. This would mean basically significant destruction of the arms industry both in the Czech Republic and within the EU, although, of course, such weapons can be purchased outside the EU. Another part that restricts the legal possession of weapons assumes that these weapons would be expropriated from the population. The European Commission assumes that they would be expropriated without compensation. According to Czech law, this may not be possible, so estimates of expropriation in the milder variant the minister said - about 500 miles. CZK, but a more realistic estimate would be about 2.5 billion. Crowns. Another significant impact would be the major criminalisation of EU citizens, as items that are not weapons but as weapons should also be considered as weapons under this Directive. So these are toys, imitations, maquettes, airsoft weapons and so on. Such weapons should be registered under the law, and their holders should have weapons licenses, which, of course, is a major problem for children who play with these toys. But that's how they would become lawbreakers, committing a crime of illegal arming by owning toys and other imitations that look like weapons. Of course, such a record would completely overwhelm all information systems, and thus we would lose effective control of the weapons that need to be controlled. The revised proposal, which has now come under the Dutch Presidency, is indeed even worse. This implies a total ban on self-loading weapons, including the said guns, all weapons that have more than six rounds, which is up to 400,000 pieces of legally held weapons in our country. It is also considered to restrict the purpose of possession of a weapon only to sport and hunting, which is also a significant restriction on the right to possession of weapons. The proposal to refer to other arms components as the main parts of the weapon, whether they are stacks, butts, punches and similar small parts, is technically pointless and is basically no longer necessary in the context of the other proposals to talk about it. The proposal is very risky, even from the point of view of the Czech Republic's internal security, because, of course, in the case of such a forceful restriction, which does not have a real reason, it is a prerequisite that a large part of legal weapons would move to that part of the illegal. The Committee on European Affairs adopted a resolution in which it expressed its opposition to the European Commission's intention to limit the possibility of the acquisition and possession of weapons held and used legally in accordance with EU Member States' national law. He refused to let the European Commission intervene in a functional system of control, registration, acquisition and possession of weapons and ammunition set up by the Czech law. However, he has expressed support for the creation of all functional measures that will lead to the fight against illegal trade, illegal acquisition, possession and other illegal handling of weapons, ammunition or explosives. He refused to allow the European Commission, in response to the tragic events associated with the terrorist acts in Paris, to persect the Member States and their citizens by unwarranted tightening up the legal possession of weapons. And the Committee on European Affairs recommended to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic that he take all legal and diplomatic steps to prevent the adoption of such a directive, which would undermine the Czech rule of law in the field of trade, control, acquisition and possession of arms, thereby inappropriately interfering with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. I am merely saying that, in the context of a detailed debate, I will make a motion for a resolution in the same text as adopted by the Committee on European Affairs, however, on behalf of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening the debate, and although it is not quite normal for me to make a point of fact first, I will allow Mr Koníček to speak because I have an idea of what he wants to speak with. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u8	Mr President, I have declared among the points that this is not part of this point, but I would like to draw attention to resolution 24 of this Chamber of Deputies, which took on its resolution 755 of 25 November 2003, when the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 (1). 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, states: 1. Following the approval of the agenda, it may be possible to propose the assignment of individual items, but not to set a fixed date for their discussion. 2. If the Chamber of Deputies, during the meeting of the proposal for a transfer of a item or a proposal for the inclusion of a new item approved by the agenda, places this item at the end of the relevant block of first, second or third reading of bills, block of first or second reading of international treaties or block of reports, proposals and other points. 3. A proposal to reschedule the item of the approved agenda may only be made within 30 minutes of the opening of the daily meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, 2 and 3 can be settled exceptionally differently by the Chamber of Deputies. We only met point 3 today, when only those who logged in within 30 minutes were allowed, but the other articles were violated today's imrvére. I would ask you, Mr President, to discuss this with the legislation, and all those in charge of the meeting, to try to follow this House of Deputies resolution number 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u9	Thank you. We are certainly going to do this, but you are not suggesting anything at this stage. So thank you for the heads-up, we'll deal with it. In the debate, Mr Váňa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u10	Good afternoon again. I am duly enrolled in the debate, I am not acting as rapporteur now, but I want to revisit the motion for a resolution, which is also part of the press, as it is available on your computers. I would just like to update Mrs Černochová's speech, which will make a proposal for its updating, given that since then the situation has developed further, therefore, both the Dutch Presidency's proposal and the fact that this initial resolution contains only one city where terrorist attacks have taken place, so we can gradually add other cities, as it will be presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u11	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that it finally came to this point after such a long time, but I would like to remind you briefly what was said here at the end of last year in plenary. It was on Friday, 27 November 2015, when I first came before you with a request to place a new item on the agenda of the House meeting, and I proposed a resolution in which a clear legislative body will declare that we reject absurd proposals to restrict the legal possession of arms by Brussels. I did it for me. Afraid that the Commission sought an accelerated discussion of the process of adopting the directive, so that the seconded representatives from the government, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, who would go to those meetings in Brussels, had a clear mandate from us as a legislature. In addition, I wanted a clearly legible signal to be sent to Brussels, that we are refusing to take and implement nonsense and absurd measures that, as a result of what has been said by my previous speakers, do not solve anything at all. [[16.10 hours]] I have presented the proposed directive quite comprehensively to you on that day and have drawn your attention to the significant effects it would have had in practice. I have even been accused by some of my colleagues from the coalition of the EET Act, although I promised that I would no longer express myself more and more fully on this point at the House's meeting, and I will only propose a binding resolution by the House. Unfortunately, the result was that you did not support my proposal and you did not place a point at the House meeting. Although I have failed to discuss this proposal for a directive in plenary, with colleagues across the political spectrum, and here I would also like to thank the chairman of the Security Committee, Váňa, we started negotiations and the introduction of dangerous provisions of the proposed directive immediately after my speech. The more surprising I was a week later, on 8 December 2015, when although the aid was promised to discuss the item, based on the veto of two MPs, the CSSD club and the club YES, the item did not get on the agenda of the House meeting. It is amazing that, despite public proclamations by members of government parties in the media about how dangerous, stupid, absurd and harmful the directive is, there has been really nothing happening to stop this standard in time. The imaginary or mentioned proposal from the Committee on European Affairs is just a small patch for what I wanted to do, although I am glad that the committee inspired my resolution, which is part of the 668-E press. For this reason, on 8 December, I again drew attention to the problem of plenary, and I urge you to take a clear position as the Chamber of Deputies, not as a committee, but as the Chamber of Deputies. I added my motion for a resolution when - you will remember - I drew attention to the possibility of exhibiting the so-called 'no'. a yellow card to this proposal for a directive, which would unnecessarily burden the law-abiding arms holders and the Czech Republic as such and, of course, the arms industry, as the chairman of the Security Committee spoke of it. I drew your attention to the fact that it is possible to oppose the proposal for a directive through the Institute. yellow cards under the Treaty of Lisbon within eight weeks of receipt of the draft directive. Unfortunately, my words were uttered empty, you didn't come forward on my proposal. And now we're in a state where we can't use the yellow card anymore. We can only use the fact that the Ministry of the Interior and the representatives who go to Brussels will have a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, in which there will be some - I assume negative - position. But it seems like a huge shame to me, because the yellow card - those of you who understand the law of the European Union, so you know what the yellow card could do. And now we are a little bit in a situation where there is actually no way of getting this thing out of the programme, and the point in the European Commission's negotiations must already be included and negotiated. So then I asked you to put this item on the agenda. Again, I am unable to understand why colleagues from the ČSSD and from the YES were so vehemently defending themselves. I honestly didn't want anything but what you want. But I think that who, other than the legislature, is to adopt resolutions on this issue, with all due respect for colleagues from the European Committee. The European Committee's resolution was simply not enough. We are a sovereign like the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. This showed the obvious unwillingness of the ČSSD and YES MPs to discuss this issue in plenary, to adopt a really strong and binding resolution by the House. Meanwhile, in the media, it was just crawling with hard statements about the senseless dictation of Brussels, starting with the Minister's statement through other members of the government coalition that we would not let it go that way, that we would not let ourselves be pissed off. But unfortunately, the political parties of ČSSD and YES have seen and still see their priorities elsewhere than the protection of the security interests of the Czech Republic and the protection of the rights of our citizens. Because otherwise I cannot explain why we did not send a resolution to Brussels in December. Then I can't really explain it rationally. Although the Government of the Czech Republic saw priorities elsewhere and was lax on security issues, the national parliaments of Poland and Sweden saw the sense of defying themselves publicly against actions taken by Brussels, suppressing their citizens and the institute of issuing a proposal for a directive with a yellow card (?), and they did so. We don't. Perhaps if the Minister of the Interior will answer me in the following debate, why did you resist so much, and if today, at the distance of the time when the Minister of the Interior sees where the Brussels meeting is moving and developing, that is, even more absurd than it was at the beginning, see the Dutch proposal mentioned by President Váňa, so if the Minister of the Interior does not regret that the ČSSD and YES did not comply with my proposal at the time, and we could have gone the way of the yellow card. I understand that European law really is very difficult for many of us, many of us are not even lawyers, and that is why I took the liberty, as the President correctly announced here, to complete the resolution adopted by the European Committee from my original proposal, but without a yellow card, and I will, of course, read it in a detailed debate. Just here to explain what the yellow card is and what it might mean. Only the government can negotiate a blocking minority in the adverse situation when deciding on the adoption of the directive. It is a government that is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, so it should respect and follow our resolution even if such a dangerous directive is to be adopted as it is today. And it would be possible, at least, to delay the vote in the Council, to convince the other Member States of the error and danger of adopting such a proposal. It has already been said here by my previous speakers, but in order for you to really focus on these things, quite complex, let me briefly remind you of what actually happened in the autumn of 2015. On 18 November 2015, five days after the massacre in central Paris, the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive to amend the original directive of 2008 and, according to the explanatory memorandum, primarily - in quotation marks - to strengthen the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms and terrorism. The 2008 amendment should have led to a situation where the Commission would issue precise specifics for futuro on the depreciation and labelling of weapons by which Member States, if not doing so, must follow. That is precisely what Article 13/1 says - I quote: The Commission will issue common guidelines on standards and depreciation techniques to ensure that damaged weapons are irreversibly incapable of being fired. Furthermore, once again, I quote: Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 28 July 2010 and shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions. This was in 2008. What does that mean? This means that the Commission has deliberately ignored the absence of clear rules for this area in some Member States for at least five years and has also resigned from their control. It should be noted that the Czech Republic never concerned this problem, because at the time the Commission submitted proposals, there was already such a level of regulation in our national law and such a functional system of control and degradation of arms that there was no need to take any measures. In a way, we could and can still be a role model for the other countries of the twenty-eight. In doing so, we know a lot of cases that, if there is disproportionate regulation on the possession of weapons, this usually has a significant negative effect on crime. I will not tire you here with an account of the fatal effects that adopting such a dilettantly prepared directive would mean in practice for the security and defence of the Czech Republic, but also for our citizens. I assume you've all met that. [[16.20 hours]] I don't want to say that the directive has only negative effects, but they really are so far above the pros that if I have to express it as a percentage, it's 20: 80. Central arms registers, including those impaired, sharing information between Member States and their authorities, banning the sale of essential parts of weapons via the Internet and sending mail - which is not possible in the Czech Republic, can only be sold and purchased with a license with a gun licence - or laying down clear rules for the depreciation of weapons. These are all things I would consider positive. On other points, the adoption of the proposed Commission directive will adversely affect sports shooters, hunters, collectors, museums, but will practically and at all not touch terrorists, criminals and other illegal arms holders. As I have said many times, a terrorist and a criminal will not go to buy a legal weapon to commit a terrorist act. Almost all the weapons used by the terrorists in Europe came to them differently than that they were legally purchased as self-loading. Only a small percentage of the weapons were originally from Slovakia, where they were reactivated from expansions to so-called sharp. A significant majority of the weapons were from somewhere in the Balkans as a result of the war in the former Yugoslavia, and they will, of course, not be affected by the directive. In doing so, let me remind you, and the Home Secretary certainly knows this very well, he knows this statistics that criminal activity by legal firearms is about 0.5 percent in our country. It's half a percent, not all of it. So I would really call it an almost statistical error, even though of course we all have this horrible act in mind that took place last year in Uherské Brod, where several of our citizens died from the hands of a shooting madman. At its meeting in Brussels, the Commission itself admitted that it had no idea what impact the directive would have on the Member States. It has no idea how many weapons this would involve and how much money it would cost the Member States. There was still no single relevant argument or analysis of the data during the negotiations. We are only constantly supported by arguments that there is a need to combat terrorism and crime, but they do not do anything about it, on the contrary, they want to punish law-abiding citizens. Unfortunately, we have witnessed lies and demagogic expressions, deliberately distorted and distorted the facts, and the arguments that were also made up of supposedly easy conversion of our self-loading weapons into fully automatic or automatic. In doing so, a ban on self-loading weapons, which have the appearance or origin of self-contained weapons, would practically mean an end to private sector cooperation with the armed forces of the state. It would mean a deterioration in the state's training and readiness for its defence, which is a fundamental duty for the survival of each state. We cannot accept the directive to do such damage to the production and sale of automatic weapons by private entities, Zbrojovka and so on, to other countries, and in our country these traditional companies, which are actually here for more than one century, would have ceased to exist. It would be an incredible strategic damage and a threat to the future. By banning such an enormous number of weapons and disproportionate regulation, we would drive the owners to transition to illegality, as the Commission essentially assumes expropriation of weapons without compensation, while bearing the cost of the state. Here I would like to remind you that there have been at least five weapons amnestys in the past, where citizens believed in their state and trusted him that the weapon they found in their grandfather's attic could either be handed over or handed over and subsequently issued a gun card so that they could have the gun in their family. The guns were given with good faith that the state would legalize their holding. And now, in fact, this principle of trust of citizens in the state is violated by this directive, which assumes expropriation even without compensation. To make matters worse, Mr Váňa also mentioned it, after the attacks in Brussels, the Dutch Presidency decided to speak with its modified proposal for this Commission directive, which, if any adjustments were to be made, touched approximately 50,000 weapons by the Ministry of the Interior's estimates. But the Dutch proposal, it goes further. There he could touch up to 400,000 weapons, and what in absurdity and dilettanteism it really does not have the equivalent of what this proposal contains. Therefore, I really believe that we have nothing more to wait for, I regret the loss of the four months, and I ask you - I stand before you on the same subject for the fourth time - that we really, like the Czech Republic, oppose such senseless, stupid proposals by the European Commission, finally officially speaking out and giving the mandate of the government and the authorities to act with the knowledge of the support of us, i.e. the legislators. In a detailed debate, I will therefore add this resolution, which Mr Váňa, President of the Váňa Committee, has announced. And let me thank all the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior from this place, namely, Magister Bačkovská and her colleagues, who I know are actually coming to Brussels several times a month to explain that the European Commission's proposal is stupid, meaningless and does not solve any terrorist problem. I really know that their efforts go beyond their official duties, and I think that they certainly deserve to thank them for their performance and in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, it's the fact that they're officials. They are officials who, although very argumentatively, defend the positions of arms holders and the position of the Czech Republic, but it is not enough. It must be politicians who will say a clear no to this directive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u13	I thank the honourable Member and now I ask for a microphone from Mr Skalický. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u14	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Much has already been said about the directive in question, therefore very briefly. I would like to state here the opinion of the entire TOP 09 and the starosta that we will not support or agree with this directive. For the main reasons other than those already mentioned here, this is clearly a disproportionate intervention in the freedoms and rights of citizens of our Republic, possibly citizens of the European Union. Let me say it's on the verge of restricting personal freedom. What the European Commission has produced, in quotation marks, especially in relation to historical weapons, museums, private collections, semi-automatic weapons, imitations in the form of toys or air weapons, including expropriation of certain weapons without replacement, is indeed at the limit of absurdity. Moreover, as has already been said from the Minister's mouth, the state of Czech legislation is significantly better, more sophisticated and in many cases this directive goes against the laws of the Czech Republic. [[16.30 hours]] The limitations of legal weapons and their possession are basically illogical, in many cases pointless, because they do not deal with what the directive was all about, that is, illegal arms trafficking and the fight against terrorism. Finally, let me say one password that we have already used here: terrorists don't come for weapons licenses. And although we know that various proposals and amendments to this directive are currently being made to the European Parliament and the European Commission, our position is constant, because even these proposals and amendments, according to our current information, are not such that they would fundamentally change the substance of the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please, to Mr Luzar's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the Minister, it is not often happening to him, but nevertheless I thank him for the words he said in the introductory words for the position of the Czech Republic on this matter. I believe that perhaps, although late, this nonsense will be stopped. If you read the proposal that came from the European Commission, the explanatory memorandum is constantly talking about illegal arms trafficking. I'm stressing the word illegal. Three-quarters of the pages of the explanatory report are all about illegal arms trafficking. The only thing that speaks of the fact that this directive is useful in something is the very last sentence - while guaranteeing more flexible rules for hunting and sports shooting - which is an absolute nonsense of this material, because it is not about some ease for hunting and sports shooting at all. Maybe I should have started my act by being biased. I'm a long-time member of the rifle club, I'm a hunter, and as such, I have a collection of weapons at home. As a sports shooter, I know what a huge problem it is to run over to races in Slovakia with a gun, or Poland etc., in Schengen when someone with a legal weapon wants to travel. The gun remains under the jurisdiction of national parliaments, weapons laws. One of the objectives of this directive is to shift responsibility for weapons and ammunition to the European Commission. They're specifically delimiting it here in this proposal. This means that if this proposal passes, the Czech Parliament will no longer be able to speak on these matters in the future. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to one thing that is mentioned in this proposal and which shows the care with which this proposal was adopted. The proposal refers to weapons that are - and now the definition that is not mentioned here - which can be used multiple times with some capacity and so on. It is generalized twice in this directive. Unfortunately, what legislation should look like, that is, an explanation of what is understood or meant by it, is not at all in this directive. I would like to quote this nonsense: In category A, this means the prohibited one, some semi-automatic firearms can be very dangerous if they have high capacity in the number of doses. This explanation is absolutely not at the outset of the decree or the directive, and the definition is quite problematic. The authors may be aware of this, so they do not comment on it any further. Unfortunately, the history of illegal weapons in Europe is linked to the problem of Yugoslavia's disintegration, when a huge amount of fully automatic weapons from military warehouses came into the black market. My colleague working in Bosnia and Herzegovina says that in each village for a few euros you will buy a functional Kalashnikov from the supplies of the Yugoslav army with stacks. The only thing stopping him from transporting such a weapon is protecting Schengen, which means border control. It's okay. But if we think that terrorists can't break into Schengen with a supply of weapons across the green border, then after the last experience with migration, we all realize that this is highly unrealistic. What bothers me in this matter is that this directive has been partly modified after criticism for the benefit of gun collectors, but the modification is absolutely wrong or in vain because it speaks of the fact that museum weapons collections can have the weapons, but must be discarded. And according to the description of the depreciation of the technical uniqueness that the museum has, it becomes an impaired artifact. It reminds me sometimes that if the European Union decides in the fight against pornography that certain parts of the statues of ancient Greeks are to be covered up, according to this philosophy certain visible parts of men's fighters would have to be cut off and this work can only be exhibited afterwards. I just consider it monstrous even from a museum and historical point of view in this decree. However, what I would like to conclude by pointing out, and I would very much like the Minister to take steps in this matter, even if I do not propose this to supplement this resolution that is here, is the problem of a qualified majority to adopt this law. The European Commission is very well aware that if ratification should take place by all Member States, it will encounter at least the resistance of the Czech Republic, which is why it is trying to push the directive in the form of a classified majority. [[Qualified?]] Here I would like to ask the Minister personally to develop activities within the Visegrad Four, to deal with the Interior Ministers, because the decision will probably remain on the Interior Ministers to speak in a uniform manner on this matter so that these powers remain at national level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Lank's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I don't want to drag this out, but I'd like to remind you on this occasion of such an old and, in my opinion, wise bonmot that the only person who can stop the wrong man with a gun is a decent man with a gun. In this spirit, the former head of Interpol, according to which one of the ways to effectively defend himself against attacks by so-called lone wolves, is precisely the way of the attack that we are most likely threatened by, is the armed public. This directive, which we are talking about right now, is almost exactly against these principles. Do you think that someone who wants to commit an armed crime, if not a terrorist attack, will stop that person from getting access to a legitimate acquisition of a weapon? Obviously, someone in the European Commission seems to think so. Personally, I'm not really into the head. One of the standards of democracy is how the state allows its citizens to defend themselves effectively if necessary. On the contrary, the greatest effort to disarm their own citizens in the history of their beginning had the worst regimes, which were then responsible for millions of lives. It was Hitler in Germany, it was Stalin in Russia, it was Mao Tung in China. And now Brusel is trying to do it with us. I believe that we will not allow this, and in voting on the resolution, I ask you to use common sense and I think for all reasonable people I thank you in advance for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u19	Thank you. I note the factual remark made by Mr Gabal and then by Mr Váňa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u20	Thank you, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to lead too much controversy here with the prevailing tone, but if no one here can explain the logic of why the Commission created this directive, and I am not denying that the directive spilled a little bit of a bathtub with a child, if the chairman of the Security Committee or the Home Secretary can't do it, then I will just mention two or three important circumstances. One circumstance is that the TGV fired military weapons from Slovakia. Luckily, it was badly done, so the Maročan couldn't charge it, so the Američan wiped it out. In Bataclan, if I'm not mistaken, they were attacked by military weapons from the area of former Yugoslavia. This means that we must realise that the responsiveness of the Francouz and other countries, which are exposed to terrorist attacks led by weapons coming from part of our territory, is an attempt to regulate. In this case, probably re-regulate. And then, by your means, on the Margo of some Members who think that a personal weapon will stop a military-planned attack by military-trained individuals with military-enhanced automatic weapons. What a stupid thing to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u21	Thank you and now with the de facto Member of the Chalupa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u22	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to comment for long. I think that the members of the ANO movement have done their part in both the Defence Committee and the Security Committee on this legislative regulation. And as to whether the weapons have meaning or not in the possession of the citizens who can deal with them. For me personally, Israel is an example, where it is clearly confirmed that a citizen with a gun can handle it, in case of an attack, but a non-military one, for which we have an army and other security forces, in which case citizens are able to solve the problem before the official security forces arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u23	Thank you. Now, please, with the de facto Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u24	I understand that even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, there must be at least one pacifist opinion and I relied on Ivan Gabal to perform and tell us something, and to refresh the debate a little. A lot of what I wanted to say was said by my colleague Chalupa. I really don't think the debate today is about what kind of weapons he's committed and how these terrorist attacks have been modified. But we are talking here - we are the Czech Parliament, we are the Czech Chamber of Deputies - we are talking about what impact it would have on the law-abiding citizens. And I made it clear here, and Ivan Gabal is a sociologist, so he likes statistical data that crimes committed with illegally held weapons in the Czech Republic have been recorded at 0.5 percent. It's not possible to apply the principle of collective guilt here. If the Slovák have not been able to legally treat themselves to devalue weapons the way they devalue themselves in the Czech Republic, so that what happened did not happen to them. We can't even turn back time in the fact that it was... maybe there wouldn't be a war in the former Yugoslavia, and that it could actually happen that those open, raided, robbed warehouses put those weapons on the market. We are dealing with what we want or do not want in the Czech Republic. And the basic motto of Brussels that this standard will contribute to the fight against terrorism is what incredibly irritates me! And perhaps we can agree with Mr Gabal in this, that this method does not seem appropriate to us, nor to him, through the Vice-President. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u25	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Váňa's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u26	Thank you. I hope that, at the end of the general debate - because we will certainly spend interesting hours on the Security Committee on the Czech Firearms and Firearms Act - I would like to remember Mr Gabal, I believe it was Nairobi and the attack on the shopping centre. Just like he described, military weapons, trained assailants. And I think the civilian with the gun saved 120 shoppers there. If I remember correctly. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. In addition to the procedure, which Mrs Černochová spoke very well and in detail about. I am sorry that the chair of the Committee on European Affairs is not here because he would certainly defend the importance of his committee a little bit. I would like to remind you that 99.9 percent of the European documents that come to the Czech Parliament will be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs, will be adopted by the resolution and these resolutions will become part of the position of the Czech Republic, which is then defended by the Government of the Czech Republic and our officials, MEPs, or in Brussels. So the resolution adopted by the Committee on European Affairs by all votes, by the votes of all Members present, unanimously, has and has its weight. However, the situation is indeed such that we agree that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies as such would have an even greater weight at the moment. I think we must signal the other parliaments within the European Union to take this matter seriously, because some countries have clearly not yet appreciated the impact that they should have. In the very beginning, it was mainly us Polák, Fin, Švéd - the yellow cards would unfortunately come together little, so they would not be effective. The institute couldn't be used effectively. Hopefully, in the next discussion - more and more countries are adding to this rejection of the proposal, be it Germany, Slovenia - I spoke to the Slovenian ambassador a moment ago. Whether it's Austria and other countries. So there is a certain hope that the directive in this really wrong, bad form will not be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u27	Thank you and now two factual ones. Mr. Gabal's microphone first, please. After that, Mr Jakubčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u28	Thank you. Just to clarify. I, as a pacifist, who is constantly proposing to increase defense spending against those who are pushing to arm the public, have absolutely nothing against people getting guns. And I have absolutely no objection to suggesting that we modify this too extensive, stupidly extensive, directive. I was just trying to make it clear that two important circumstances were not understood here. If someone smuggles a damaged weapon from the countries of former Yugoslavia to Slovakia as damaged, the weapon will go through a fixed or a bad repasus, then without any control you will take it by car in any amount from Slovakia to France. This and the regulation of this phenomenon should be the directive. Because someone was overzealous and reached for historical weapons and stuff like that, so I say and I say it, spilled the tub with the baby. What I said here about private-armed people was that, for example, if France is facing a military-prepared attack by military soldiers with military-equipped automatic weapons, the idea that we can face it with a private weapon is at least asymmetrical. To put it delicately. But the core of this directive is that from Eastern Europe and the new Member States where they can be purchased for cheap automatic weapons, they are not easily smuggled into those countries where terrorists attack civilians. And that's not us, but those guns come from us. So it's also about our solidarity with those countries where terrorists are attacking. The slope isn't good. [[Attention on time.]] But let's not propose a change of heart, and let's not spill the beans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u29	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Jakubčík's microphone. Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a little addressed to the Chairman of the Security Committee because I am Vice-President of the VEZ. We are discussing documents that come from the EU to VEZ. Sometimes discussions are also very long for these documents. However, specifically in the case of the proposal for this directive, the debate was very short. The Committee has decided completely unanimously not to accept, to refuse. Exactly what the chairman of the Security Committee said here. And just a little drawing. I think the directive does not concern only the Eastern countries. Northern Ireland - Ingram MAC-10, we buy for £100. In the Czech Republic, Kalashnikov for seven thousand. This means that in Northern Ireland weapons can be bought significantly cheaper on the black market than in our country. I would not refer to Eastern countries, but since this directive should work in some way, it should work on all countries. But I am fundamentally against this directive being adopted in any way, in any way, in the Czech Republic. Because it's really just a matter of ending all the museums. The arguments have already been raised here. The clubs of military history will end, etc. etc. It's completely complete nonsense. And its absurdity is approaching many other EU regulations in the style of equal pickles, etc. Personally, I'd put it on the cucumber level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u31	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Černochová, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u32	Thank you. I'm just in response to my colleague Jakubčík, through you. I do not question the role of the Committee on European Affairs. I was talking here about the fact that the Czech Republic, when I proposed this in December, could apply the principle of so-called. the yellow cards given to it by the Treaty of Lisbon. And I can't do that anymore. And it didn't work when it went to the committee. That's why I've been performing here, begging you, trying to get you to vote for it. This opportunity has been missed by the Czech Republic because you are hesitant shooters. About what Ivan Gabal said here, through you. Ivan Gabal, this is exactly the 2008 directive that the European Commission has left on ice for five years. Everything that Mr Gabal here has described is in the 2008 directive until the last letter. So now we're really talking about something else, and I insist. If the European Commission had not given up on the 2008 directive when I said it to the public and, like the Czech Republic, the other states had provided the evidence for what I read here, i.e. The Commission shall issue common guidance on standards and depreciation techniques in order to ensure that damaged weapons are irreversibly incapable of being fired; also that Member States bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 28 July 2010, they shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions - if this had been implemented from 1 August or from a time limit of 2010 - to the extent that Mr Gabal has referred to it. [[with emphasis]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u33	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador? So please, come on, you have the floor. Mr Holík, in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please all of you, let us be very clear about this directive here. Yes, except for the gun license, I also own a driver's license. I've got a car, I've got a power bike. And some overzealous head in Brussels can also order that these are weapons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u35	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u36	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for the debate. It is clear that Members of the Czech Parliament, if they were sitting in European structures, such a directive would never be approved in this form. Sometimes when I walk in long corridors in Brussels, I also have ideas. And the question is, what would happen to me if I was there every day? This directive is simply not a good one. The directive says, in sum, that we don't trust our own people. And I think that's a bad signal. I talked about it. I am a pro-European politician, but Europe should not score its own goals and should not make the perception of the citizens of the Member States worse than the measures that have been taken here. I spoke of Israel several times. I don't want to say it again today just because it's fashionable, but because it's just the way it is. In Israel, alongside the police and the army, there are large numbers of volunteers with weapons. The situation in the country is that terrorism has been threatened for decades. And they learned to live with danger. The situation will either be solved by a soldier, a police officer, or a civilian. We just read an article somewhere that a terrorist was on a military patrol. He was shot by a civilian. He used a weapon for the benefit of his state. We have hunting associations here. We need to integrate these societies into the security policy of the state, for example. And this signal means giving us back our weapons, and we don't really want these people who hold their weapons legally for years and obey the law so that they have their weapons on them. In reply to Mrs Černochová through the President, whether I regret that we have taken advantage of it or not. The Chamber of Deputies is a phenomenon that is not controlled by the Ministry of the Interior, which is without doubt good and correct. You, my colleague, have made a motion that has simply not been approved. At that time, despite the argument you made here, the MPs decided not to support it. And I have no choice but to respect that. Nothing more and nothing less. This does not mean, however, that we will not, with all our strength, contradict this directive in the company of our V4 partners, which is happening. And to contradict the parts that bother us. There are some measures that we do not mind in their entirety. As far as Mr Gabal is concerned, by your means, Madam President, I would just like to make a few comments on this. Slovakia had very inappropriate legislation to devalue weapons. She was very benevolent, but the situation changed. For example, I would like to remind you when Czech and Slovak police officers captured just these weapons in the territory of the Czech Republic, which were exported to France and Belgium about a year ago. Weapons have been detected. The perpetrators have been prosecuted, and I assume they've been convicted. The Czech Republic does not have much reason to change our law, which deals with the possession of weapons, because from our point of view the law is very modern and very strict and meets the conditions and needs that the Czech Republic places on the right to hold a gun. There have been several amnesty weapons. Not just for me, but for my predecessors. I think gun amnesty has enabled a large number of illegal weapons to be acquired, e.g. from World War I and World War II, but also other weapons. That means the state is doing its utmost to behave very responsibly against the possession of weapons. I can guarantee you here that what I have heard here today, that we are in complete harmony, that your remarks are here, and, of course, the resolution that I assume will be adopted by a overwhelming majority of votes, we will transfer to European soil, and we will do everything we can to make sure that the directive is adapted to help and do no harm. The way it's designed today, from my point of view, I'm sure it's harmful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u37	I thank you, and I am now opening up a detailed debate in which I have two applications, Mr Váňa and Mrs Černochová. I'll ask Mr Váňa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u38	Good afternoon. I would like to formally sign up for the motion for a resolution, which is in print 668-E/0, so it is a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies to this House press, as I presented it in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u39	Thank you. And now, please, to Mrs. Černochová's mike. And I'll ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. In agreement with Mr President of the Security Committee and rapporteur Váňa, and in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Hamáček would like to amend the proposal referred to by Mr Váňa, in order to reject, at point 4 - the European Commission's response to the tragic events associated with acts of terrorism in Paris - in order for Brussels to be added to Paris - to persect Member States and their citizens through unjustified tightening up of the legal possession of arms - remains. Just between the word Paris and perscussion put "and in Brussels." That's the first draft of change. And the second proposal for a change is for point 5 to add point 6, which would sound as follows. Once again - The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to present the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union and the European Parliament. This is also due to what has been said here from the mouth of my colleagues, that it is necessary for the Czech Republic to receive support within other countries of the 28-year-olds, and that our motion for a resolution should be heard about this as soon as possible by the relevant legislatures and that the time deficit, the four months that we have lost, should at least be caught up in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u41	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? [[They're not interested.]] Let us now proceed to the vote. We would first deal with the amendments and then vote on the motion for a resolution. Before we do, I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. And I will ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u42	I'm sorry, we have yet to consult with the Minister on the amendment. So, at this point, we are registering the motion for a resolution and the amendment to this resolution. We will first vote on Mrs Černochová's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u43	No one's objecting. I therefore initiate the vote. And I have another question. There are two points in Mrs Černochová's amendment. I'm asking the House if we can vote on them at once. There is no objection, so we will do so. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 354, registered 140 present, for 138. [[Against zero.]] This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u44	We can therefore now vote on the motion for a resolution, as amended by the amendment, as adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-010-144.u45	I am asking the House whether it is in agreement that we will vote on the resolution as a whole. No objection. So I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 355 in which 144 are registered, for 142, against 1. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur, the rapporteur, and I conclude reading this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
