ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u1	140. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central Africa Contracting Party, of the other part, /German press 656/ - first reading The submitted proposal will be introduced gradually by Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek if he wishes. I would ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Pavel Holík, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Now I'm giving the floor to the Foreign Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I believe Minister Mládek is not here. I think he's out of his mind, so I don't think he's gonna fill me in. But I think I'm able to present it myself. It is therefore an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Central African States. I would just like to clarify that those countries of Central Africa, so that you know which states are involved -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing a subject other than the draft ratification agreement, please be in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem to you that Africa is not a strong enough subject, but I assure you that this is a fundamental subject. Africa really concerns us. We're registering it very strongly today. Of course, this is rather negative, because it has to do with the fact that thousands of refugees are coming to us from some conflicts in North Africa, but I think that is far from the only thing that is important in Africa and which makes it important. You may feel that the Economic Partnership Agreement with the Central African States is not significant. But I would like to assure you that these agreements and efforts to communicate with these states are more fundamental from the point of view of the future than anybody thinks. I know you could say that Africa and I only have one percent of foreign trade, and therefore it's not something that's gonna rip us out today. So I would point out to you that Africa is the continent that is growing fastest today from all continents in the world, it is growing five, six, seven percent. Which one of you has it, I'd say. I repeat, it is the fastest growing continent in the world. And I'd like to ask you not to see Africa just as a country of conflict. I could list a number of relatively stable African countries that are actually moving forward quickly. And I think that Africa is a continent that will belong to the future. I believe that there will be an increase in those countries that will be stable and that will develop economically and politically. And just one example for you to imagine. Such Nigeria, with it, is the assumption that it will have 400 miles in the foreseeable future 20 years. population. He's got 160 today. Imagine that. Only one country in Africa will have 400 miles. population. That's to make you realize how this continent is growing today. So that's why I think it makes sense to talk about an agreement with these countries. And to find a way to help stabilize those regimes if we can find agreements that are mutually beneficial. These negotiations are not simple, which is also proof that I am presenting you with an interim Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Central Africa Party. But from those countries of Central Africa, which are both Congo, Chad, Guinea, Cameroon, then Gabon, then from these countries in the middle of Africa, only Cameroon actually agreed to the agreement. So de facto I call you Central Africa, but it's de facto at this point just an agreement with Cameroon. And the others aren't connected yet. So it's more like a swallow like Cameroon as the first partner to sign the deal. Cameroon is a country that is relatively very stable at those conditions. It is a country that is actually developing at a rate of about 6 percent of economic growth per year. It is a country that has been able to create a system of more political parties, and it is such an example of a positively developing African country. In fact, in agreement with Cameroon, we also assume that other Central African countries will use this example of an interim agreement and will join it later. [[11.10 hours]] And if I had yet to say what the substance of the agreement is, it is, of course, the elimination of barriers to trade and the strengthening of cooperation in areas related to trade. One of you could say that these contracts, looking closely at them, are like a more complicated thing than they seem, because it's about not confirming those countries in the nature of the countries that export minerals, and we're supplying them with some goods for it, and it's like they're strengthening the structure that isn't always full. I think these are things that aren't quite easy to answer. I think, at this point, it is important that Cameroon has signed the Treaty, which means that he believes that this type of opening up of trade with Europe is advantageous for him and that it is something that should, on the contrary, involve him in the international trade community and give him a chance to develop. This means that the signature of Cameroon means that they see it for themselves as something that will strengthen their economy, which is developing quite quite well under the conditions of sub-Saharan Africa. So don't make him feel like it's some kind of renewal of colonial agreements or anything. I'm convinced this is different and it's more complicated. But, of course, having a good mutual agreement, it's probably not an easy thing to do, and it's a pretty complicated topic. I recommend, of course, that we support this agreement between the European Economic Community and the representative of Central Africa Cameroon as an example of opening trade and negotiating more open trade conditions between us and this African country. I think, in a way, this has a lot to do with the issues that we are dealing with today. We should be interested in increasing countries that are stable economically, which are stable politically and which we may not hear so often about today, but that is precisely because they are not a source of conflict, nor are they a source of problems related to today's often discussed migration. I think it has its weight, even if it can make someone feel like it's on the edge. Africa isn't really on the edge of my mind. I repeat, she's not on the verge of the future, because I think she's going to be promoted more and more significantly. And I hope that it will be promoted in a positive way and not the one that is unfortunately the most visible today. So much for this contract, and hopefully I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u5	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister Mládek is not present, so I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Pavel Holík to present his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A Government proposal has been tabled here by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has given its consent to ratify the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central Africa Contracting Party, of the other part. I recommend that this government proposal be directed to the Foreign Committee for further consideration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-002-140.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I don't have an application for it. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Foreign Committee. This was repeated by the rapporteur. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. We will decide in the '91 vote, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 91, of the 131 Members present was for 114, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this Government proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee and the deadline for discussion remains under the Rules of Procedure Act. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We'll continue with paragraph 141 and that's
