ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u1	149. Government proposal to submit to Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for ratification of the Sustainable Transport Protocol to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathian Republic - First reading Minister Richard Brabec shall state the proposal submitted on behalf of the Minister. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, colleagues, again from the workshop of the Ministry of Transport, even in this case in close cooperation with the Ministry of Environment. The Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Carpathians was prepared on the initiative of Ukraine and with technical assistance from the United Nations Environment Programme. The Gestor of the Convention is the Ministry of the Environment. The Convention focuses on a broad range of topics related to the sustainable development of the region. Three protocols have been agreed so far, which are in force for the Czech Republic and in general, namely the Protocol on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity, the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism and the Protocol on Sustainable Sustainable Management of Forests. The Sustainable Transport Working Party prepared a proposal for the Sustainable Transport Protocol, signed at the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Carpathian Convention in September 2014 in Mikulov and the Government of the Czech Republic agreed to the conclusion of the Sustainable Transport Protocol by its resolution of 15 September 2014. The aim of the Protocol is to strengthen and facilitate the cooperation of the Contracting Parties in the area of the development of sustainable freight and passenger transport and related infrastructure in the Carpathians, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of the region. To meet the objectives of the Protocol, the Czech Republic will make maximum use of projects financed from international funds and European Union funds supporting the implementation of the Carpathian Convention. The involvement of the Czech Republic will correspond to the available possibilities of the Ministry of Transport, the chapters of the Ministry of Environment and other entities. The adoption of the Protocol does not entail any requirement to increase the budget chapter of the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of the Environment and will therefore have no impact on the state budget. I would like to ask you to refer the material to the committee responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading. We will have to vote here because there has been a change in the rapporteur. The rapporteur was originally to be Mr Rom Kostřica, but there has been a change; the rapporteur for first reading will be Mr Holík. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is the rapporteur for first reading to become Mr Holík, so please press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 142. 141 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 108, against no one. The proposal has been approved. I therefore ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A Government proposal has been tabled here by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has submitted its consent to the proposal for ratification of the Sustainable Transport Protocol to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathian Republic. Everything I think has been presented to the Minister, so for myself, I recommend ordering this press to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate to which I see President Stanjura's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u6	Thank you for the floor. I don't know, colleagues, which one of you had time to read the text of the protocol. I made the time, and I have a question for the Minister. What happens if we don't approve? I consider this completely unnecessary text, and to document it, I will read you a few sentences from this protocol. Article 9 Road transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the importance of freight and passenger road transport, in particular in terms of its importance, in terms of the availability of remote areas and destinations, as well as in terms of the development of the Carpathian region. - That's road traffic. Article 10 Rail transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the importance of freight and passenger rail transport, which constitutes an important element of multimodal transport and a major alternative to road transport in the Carpathian region. - However, let us remember that in Article 9, the importance of road transport was highlighted. We already have an alternative here. - The Contracting Parties recognise the importance of freight and passenger rail transport for the development of the Carpathian region, including tourism. Let's go to Article 11, which is called Water Transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the potential of water transport: in particular as an element of multimodal transport, and (b) for the development of the Carpathian region, including tourism. Article 12 Air transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the potential of air transport for economic development, in particular for the development of tourism and the availability of remote areas. - That's how we combine it. That was the road to the remoteness and water for the potential of tourism. Furthermore, the Contracting Parties quite surprisingly and innovatively recognise the importance of air transport for long-distance transport. (c) the Contracting Parties recognise the need to concentrate on existing airports and airfields. Let's go to Article 13 Clumsy Transport. I see the Contracting Parties have thought of everything. The Parties recognise the essential benefits of non-motor transport, particularly in terms of public health and the minimization of negative environmental effects. Furthermore, the Contracting Parties recognise non-motor transport as an effective resource in terms of costs and maintenance of transport infrastructure, spatial use and energy savings. A za c), and again tourism: the Contracting Parties recognise the growing importance of non-motor transport especially for tourism and recreation. And that's how I could quote. And I've left out all those pedestrians, what they're aware of, taking note of, emphasizing, and so on. Minister, I wonder how many people are doing this with us, what we have it for, and what happens if we don't approve. Whether or not we're defending the other parties. I consider it completely useless text. If you read the text, we can't even mean it. So let me get this straight. If we approve this, the Czech Parliament will recognise the importance of road transport, motor transport, the importance of rail transport, the importance of air transport, the potential of water transport and the importance of non-motor transport. And I think we know all this, including our citizens and entrepreneurs, without a contract, that transport is important, that without transport, we simply do not get from one place to another, not only in the Carpathians, but nowhere else. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u7	I thank you and ask who else is joining the general debate. Mr Karel Fiedler, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to thank my colleague Zbyňka Stanjur for pulling us out of this lethargy of all the nonsense that we've been presented with here, the House is being watered down. The public at the gallery was probably as shocked as we were who didn't look into the documentary. Thank you again, Zbyňka. And I think we should not approve of this document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is applying. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u10	I understand that the Minister of the Environment is alternating here. In order to give space to the Ministry of Transport to answer my serious questions, I propose that we interrupt this point until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-004-149.u11	I'm registering your proposal. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I therefore note the procedural proposal to interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of proposing that this item be interrupted until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 143, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 114, against 1. I note that the proposal has been approved, and I am interrupting this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
