ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /house print 608/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Dan Ťok, the Minister of Transport will present the proposal, and before he takes the floor, I will ask that Mr Kolovratník take the position at the rapporteur's table, because Mr Šidlo, who was rapporteur for first reading, is duly excused, but since we are reading the second, we do not need to approve another rapporteur after the committee has been discussed. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the bill is, in particular, to ensure the transposition of the directive on the creation of a single European railway area. This is a rather extensive entry into the Act on Railways and some related laws, which contains inputs of both partial nature and changes of conceptual character. This proposal has also been presented and discussed in detail in the Economic Committee and at the seminar in the Sub-Committee on Transport, so allow me only a brief introduction. The proposal shall, in particular, affect the following areas: 1. Categorisation of runways and definition of access to individual categories of runways. Here, in particular, a new category of local railways is introduced and the rules of access are now being amended. 2. Operation of service facilities. It is a new regulation which, following the directive, defines railway services, such as railway stations, service stations, etc., and regulates the rights and obligations of operators of such installations and carriers using the services in them. 3. Access to the operation of the carrier. A new text and modifications to the licensing of rail transport operations are proposed. 4. Track capacity allocation. This is the new wording of the adaptation of the procedure of the railway operator when negotiating with carriers for access to railway infrastructure for the purpose of the annual timetable and ad hoc rides. 5. Assessment of the threat to the economic equilibrium of rail transport operated under a public service contract. This is a new arrangement allowing, on the basis of an official review, access to rail infrastructure for carriers whose services could significantly undermine the economic balance of public passenger transport services. 6. Adjustment of the scope and procedure of rail inspection in the emergency investigation. In addition to the above topics, the proposal also contains related changes in the area of administrative punishment and the organisation of the state administration in the field of railways, in particular in the context of the proposed management of the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, as well as certain partial national arrangements in particular in the field of felling of trees along the railways and in relation to the construction of railways. Several blocks of amendments were tabled during the discussion of the Economic Committee, the most extensive of which was a set of proposals aimed at redefining the form of competences of the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. However, the Ministry of Transport did not agree with these amendments and in the end they were not adopted by the Economic Committee. Finally, 13 amendments were adopted by the resolution of the Economic Committee, with which the Ministry can in principle agree. The draft amendment of the Railway Act was introduced by representatives of the Ministry of Transport in a more detailed context at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Transport last week. The honourable Members, the proposal put forward by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies, are the result of long and very hard work and numerous negotiations with the bodies concerned and public authorities. It is necessary from the point of view of implementing EU law, but it also contains solutions to national rail transport problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u3	Thank you, Minister Dan Ťok. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 608/1 and 608/2. I therefore now ask Mr Martin Kolovratník, as rapporteur for the Economic Committee, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I wish you quiet evening time. The petitioner - Minister of Transport Dan Ťok - has more or less presented everything to the law and repeated it, so I will make my speech really brief so that I do not delay you by doing the information presented. Let me just remind you that we have this law in the House since 23 September 2015 that it is really waiting for more than half a year for its discussion, and I understand in this sense that the petitioners and colleagues from the Ministry of Transport are eagerly waiting for us to complete the law and that it can enter into force as well as in effect. The primary objective of the law is the implementation of European law, namely Directive No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What the law proposes has already been said. I say for myself that the guarantee economic committee discussed the bill at its last meeting of 20. 5. and adopted resolution, as said, No. 608/2, where he recommended approval, and as is customary in accordance with the current legislative process of the Chamber of Deputies, he also adopted some, I can say, in quotation marks, committee amendments. Perhaps for yourself for those of you who are interested in this issue, I can mention the exact definition of so-called. the test track, the clear definition of when the train is publicly accessible, so that it prevents the possibility of closing the train for candidates other than the owner of the line, and also the obligation of the carrier to negotiate a kind of compulsory guarantee, i.e. insurance, in quotation marks. It is important to know, however, that further amendments were made by us - me and other colleagues - after discussions on the guarantee committee and also after the aforementioned subcommittee on transport, as the Minister said. At this point, we have 16 pieces in total. Of course, I'm not going to double my colleagues, they're going to imagine the amendments themselves. For myself in the rapporteur's report or in that statement, I can say that I have also tabled six amendments, of course I will explain them in the general debate and then I will sign up to them in detail in the debate. As for the next one in the timetable quotation marks, we are counting on the second reading of this law and, above all, the amendments to be discussed at the Economic Committee next week on Wednesday 8. 6. and there we take the final position for the third reading. So much news at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and before I open the general debate, let me just say that there has been an apology from Mr Gabrhel's meeting this afternoon - extending his apology until the end of today's day. Now, in the general debate that I am opening, I ask the Vice-President if he wants a priority right? No. So Mrs Květa Matušovská was the first to be entered in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would like to justify the amendments that are placed in the system and to which I will sign up for my colleague Karel Šidl, who is absent in a detailed debate. The amendments relate to the amendment to the draft law on the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. It's press 609, we're actually going to discuss it after this bill. The scope of the regulatory authority established shall be designed only for the field of rail transport in order to maintain the necessary concentration and specialisation of the regulatory authority for the performance of its tasks under Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. At the same time, a partial amendment of the Act on the Czech Railways Stock Company is proposed, Act No.77/2002 Coll., which specifies the wording of the provisions in § 8 para. In order to eliminate existing interpretational problems, this law eliminates existing interpretational problems. To point number two. Existing legislation does not regulate the existence of central railway records as part of the territory. The existing register of official permits for the operation of the runway is only textual, spatial and identically inaccurate and cannot serve to ensure certain tasks of the State and public authority. The amendment is a long-term and systemic measure. His legislative support would be good at working with track data as part of the state's territory is actually getting (?) to the level of road description and to the level enabling the State and public authority to meet the needs of the strategic interests as well as to enable efficient planning for the development of railway infrastructure. Another of the amendments is, in fact, the current legislation, which does not impose an explicit obligation on state-owned operators of national and regional runways to establish the corresponding operational components. Only the operator of such a runway has the available professional staff with the necessary knowledge and technical equipment. Other components of the integrated rescue system cannot provide the necessary tasks and activities. It is therefore necessary to make a legislative amendment in the form of an obligation for national and regional rail operators owned by the State. The amendment has no economic implications. It responds to an existing situation where a fire rescue body of the enterprise is established within the Railway Infrastructure Administration. The statutory imposition of obligations is effective and necessary in view of the management of public funds. Furthermore, the concept of a publicly accessible train is very unspecific. Its introduction will only bring complications and an increase in administration. The same can be expected in the case of acceptance of interpretation and application problems in rail transport. The status of accessible lifts should only have State-owned lifts which would also be operated as logistics centres or container terminals with non-discriminatory access for all carriers. There are no such lifts in the Czech Republic. For non-discriminatory access to trains, the text of the amendment in Section 22a (2) is proposed. Article 4 (1) (a) (c). The amendment to the Railway Act does not accept the requirement of the Railway Infrastructure Administration to adjust the training and checking of employees providing the operation of the railway despite the fact that in the substantive intention of the amendment the requirement was included by the Department of Railways and Combined Transport of the Ministry of Transport. This request was last applied by letter from SŽDC General Directorate of 10. 11. 2014 No S47202/2014-026. Nevertheless, there have been no changes to the bill. The text of the amendment contains the required legislative anchoring of the railway operator's obligations. The modification retains the existing competence of the Railway Inspection, i.e. the processing of administrative offences directly related to its activities, the handling of offences in cases where the railway operator or the carrier does not notify the Railway Inspection of the occurrence of an emergency, does not secure the location of an emergency or does not carry out an emergency documentation at the time of the occurrence of the incident, nor does it detect the causes and circumstances of the occurrence of the incident. The proposal, on the one hand, is not in conflict with European Union law and, at the same time, represents the most effective performance of the state administration, since moving the solution to administrative offences which concern exclusively the Railway Inspection would be extremely inefficient to another administrative office. On paragraph seven - the legislative technical regulation that the Railway Inspection leaves in the investigation not only the causes of the incidents, but also the circumstances of their emergence and other deficiencies that may affect safety. At the same time, the prior authorisation of the Railway Inspection to save emergencies on all routes with the basic privilege established in Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Union on railway safety is ensured, that it should be a decision of the investigating authority, whether and to what extent it will save other than a serious accident. If I comment on point eight. Legally, the technical adjustment leaves Railway inspection of the performance of state surveillance in a pre-defined area, in the field of emergencies, supervision of the investigation of incidents carried out by railway operators and carriers, in particular to ensure that their investigation is objective and factually correct in terms of the causes and the adoption of emergency prevention measures. Last but not least, the state surveillance carried out by the Railway Inspection is intended to serve as an emergency prevention. The proposal is not even in conflict with European Union law, because the amendment also includes the anchoring of systemic safety oversight, which is entrusted exclusively to the Railway Authority as a national safety authority under the relevant European Union directives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Květa of Matušovská. Now in the debate, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Mr. František Laudát will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe I will be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. First, I would like to read, as rapporteur, the legislative technical amendments recommended by the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, at the outset of my speech in the framework of the general debate, and then I would like to address my amendments. Loading proposal on legislative technical -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u9	Mr Member, of course you can do this, but you still have to repeat this in detail in the debate, because it is a legislative technical regulation that must be voted on. So, of course, when you justify it, nothing against it. I'm just saying, you're gonna have to do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u10	Copy that. It is a very short adjustment, but in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I will now justify it in the general debate. I'll sign up in detail afterwards. So the rapporteur's proposal for legislative technical regulation. First of all, in paragraph 88, paragraph 66 is replaced by the following: The words "Article 23 (1)'shall be replaced by the words "Article 23 (1) '. 7' shall be replaced by 'Article 23 (2) '. 8" It's an error in the designation of the paragraph. The second legislative technical proposal concerns the resolution of the Economic Committee. It is the order under number 608/2, and in its paragraph 88 in Section 66, paragraph 66 is proposed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1' insert the words "§ 4a para. 3'. The reasoning is that there is no authorisation for the issue of a decree. This is the end of legislative technical adaptations. Now, then, colleagues, as the author of the amendments in brief, I will try to introduce them to you, although I know that this is a topic particularly for the Economic Committee, so I think it will be good to be brief. I finally designed six pieces for the second reading. Three of these are from my workshop, which I prepared with my expert team, three after the debate with colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, who asked me to do so. My first proposal concerns the allocation of capacity on the overloaded runway, when I simply propose that whoever assigns the overloaded runway, i.e. SŽDC, may be concerned in type with the medially known first corridor on the Prague-Pardubice route, my hometown, and Olomouc-Ostrava, so that if the runway is overloaded and there is a dispute, that trains which are longer, larger, if you want more comprehensive, and that allocation, i.e. SŽDC, have more yield. This means that there is an economic aspect and we give the allocation the opportunity to maintain proper economic care and therefore give priority to the person who pays more in quotation marks for using the one so-called slot. [[17.30 hours]] My second proposal concerns a fairer allocation of traction power, namely Article 23d para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Again, in a very simple way, electricity payments are currently charged more or less flat-rate, whether it is used by a light passenger train or by a longer speedster or by a freight train. With the new formula I propose after discussing and agreeing with the Ministry of Transport, we oblige whoever charges electricity to also take account of the operating modes of the train. This means the number of individual stops, the speed that the train is running, or the winter heating or air conditioning. My third proposal concerns - or it is a minor partial modification of the definition of emergencies and increases sanctions for natural persons for failing to provide legal cooperation in the investigation of emergencies. The increase in sanctions is from 10 grand. 50 grand. Crowns. Here it is important to note that this adjustment is discussed with the railway inspection that requires it, and is in line with this proposal of mine. My fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, gives a very small explanation of the wording concerning the validity of the timetable. In addition to the day and month, the text is supplemented by an hour or midnight to avoid possible different interpretations. It's really a formal clarification. The fifth amendment concerns sanctions for separate accounting. In this proposal, there are three amendments complementing both the offences of the railway operator and the carrier by not keeping separate accounts. Since this obligation is already introduced in the Railway Act, it is § 62 para. 4, but it has not yet been sanctioned, which is not fully in line with the current European Directive 34 of 2012, and therefore we want to bring this into line. Finally, for the sixth amendment, I was asked by representatives of insurance companies. I presume that this came at the very last minute and we will still have to look at both the Economic Committee and our colleagues from the Ministry of Transport to see if it has or does not make sense. Insurance companies are calling for the possibility to terminate the insurance contract. They have put in their proposal clearly given cases where this should occur. For example, if the activity is stopped or the authorisation to operate rail transport is terminated or in the event of financial incapacity of the carrier. But I say fair and squarely that this came at the very last minute, and it will mainly depend on the debate with colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, if this amendment makes sense to them. So many presentations of my proposals and thus also legislatively technical, or proposal not legislatively technical adaptations in the general debate. I'll sign up for everyone in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u11	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Now, Mr František Laudát in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to make another amendment to the package here. Unfortunately, it took longer to process it. However, in the first part of Article 1, point 5 of the amendment reads: "5. The construction of the runway is not part of the property. The construction of a national, regional, tram, trolleybus or special runway is of public benefit." Reason. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Railway Act, House Press 608, proposes that the construction of a national and regional runway be a public benefit. This is justified by the fact that the current Railway Act does not anchor the importance of rails, or their specific categories, in terms of construction. This is unlike other types of line infrastructure construction, which are even granted by special laws the privilege of public interest of line construction in electricity, gas, water management. Furthermore, for example, the construction of electricity and gas storage plants. In the field of roads they have already the status of publicly beneficial construction of motorways, roads, local roads, roads of the I. class, including related buildings, which is also a path for cyclists, § 17 para. 1 of Law No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roads, as amended. Thus, a somewhat unbalanced legal situation is now in place where the construction of a class 1 local road, i.e. a major city street, is also beneficial with the bike path, while the parallel-built tram or trolleybus line does not have this privilege, although its transport importance is incomparable with the bike path. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to extend the types of runways whose construction is publicly beneficial, even to all relevant urban runways, i.e. to a special runway - the runway is special according to § 3 para. 1 Railway Act, which is a subway - and then a tram and trolleybus. Today, urban runways are particularly important in large urban agglomerations, and their further construction is constantly faced with a number of problems that, among other things, stem from their lack of legally expressed social significance. Publicly beneficial construction is defined in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) 1 Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations, as amended, the proposal does not conflict with this definition. The amendment also does not conflict with European Union Community law. In other generalities and concretes, this amendment of the reasoning contained in the explanatory memorandum to the Government amendment in the draft amendment to the Act on page 84 and 85 of the press applies. Marking the proposed change compared to the government's draft amendment to the law. In Article 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1 the following sentences are added: "The construction of the runway is not part of the plot. The construction of a national regional railway, which is newly inserted, is "tram, trolleybus or railway specially beneficial." Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a positive view of the legislation that it is this good, I mean the legislation of the Ministry of Transport - it is also based on my experience and I think that we would be very helpful to the municipal sector in promoting these buildings. Thank you for your attention. It's in your system. I'm sorry it wasn't until today under number 4453. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u13	I thank Mr František Laudát. This is the last one entered in the general debate so far. I'm asking if there's anyone reporting from the scene in the general debate. It's not like that. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[No.]] I am opening up a detailed debate and, with priority rights, Vice-President Bartošek is reporting to the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to sign up for the amendment under number 4454. This amendment addresses leaving it at the will of the railway owner to ask for the inclusion of the regional runway that is its property so far into the newly created category of local runways. That means that the railroad owner can decide his own path. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u15	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. And now in a detailed debate, Mrs Matušovská. Mr. Pleticha will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendment that my colleague Karel Šidlo has put in the system, which is deposited under House document 4449. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u17	Thank you, Mrs Matušovská. A colleague of Pleticha. I don't see him. This application is forfeit. [[Mr Pletich's Member is coming.]] Oh, I see. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u18	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to apply to my two amendments. The same topic as Mr Laudát's fellow Member and concerns the recognition of the status of public benefit to railway constructions of trams and special ones. Which is one amendment. Because these are a number of statutory cities, and even those tramways carry out their tasks in the field of public service obligations both local and regional. Here I can name for example Most, Litvínov, Liberec, Jablonec nad Nisou, Ostrava Zátiší, formerly Budišovice-Kyjovice. This also applies to the subway, preparation of other constructions and development of networks in the cities of the capital city of Prague, the statutory cities of Brno, Ostrava, Olomouc, Plzeň, Liberec and Jablonec nad Nisou. During the lengthening of building procedures and the need to deal with many relationships, when it is introduced into the Railway Act directly from the law the status of public benefit to regional and national railways, so here too it is very appropriate and it will help the authorities. So this is my amendment in the system under number 4466. [[17.40 hours]] And also the same, and this concerns trolleybus tracks, because even the trolleybus tracks perform the same role in other cities, and here I can name for example Chomutov, Jirkov, Mariánské Lázně, Velká Hleděsebe, Pardubice, Lázně Bohdaneč, Zlín, Otrokovice. Many cities also intend to expand these lines. And even here will help very much the status of public utility, not only in the construction of new lines, but also in the reconstruction and modernization of existing ones, when new telematics are being dealt with, it is necessary to draw new lines, to enter different land, so even here this institute can make it very easy for the construction process to take place before a special authority. I am not entirely aware of why when I was talking to the Ministry of Transport officials, why they did not express the promotion of public utility status on these routes, but that is why I do it and rather separately, so that they have a chance to go through at least something, if not all of these runways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u19	I thank my colleague Pletich. Again, I'm sorry I missed him. Now, Mr Foldyna, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I am signing up for two amendments. Both relate to specifying the definition. One amendment is: the amount of the premium is fixed by the carrier. That's where the definition is refined. It is Amendment 4452, which I am signing up for. The second amendment specifies the definition of coherently built territory. Both Slovak legislators and Austrian legislators have applied to the same clarification of the definition. It's also in Germany. This amendment bears the number 4451, which I also apply to. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u21	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Now, Mr Kolovratník, in a detailed debate. A colleague of Mr. Laudát will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u22	Thank you for the word. Firstly, as rapporteur, I am applying to the proposal for legislative technical amendments. Secondly, I formally submit to my Amendment No. 4463, overloaded runway. Furthermore 4457 - traction electricity, 4459 - emergencies, 4460 - validity of the timetable, 4461 - separate accounting penalty. Finally, I am applying to proposal 4478, under the number of House document 4478 - the possibility of the insurance contract being terminated by insurance companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u23	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Now, Mr František Laudát, Mr Birke will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u24	Thank you. I only apply briefly to Amendment 4453.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. Now the last one entered in the detailed debate, Mr Jan Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to sign up for the last amendment under House number 3406. Very short justification. This is because the railway operator is obliged to remove the trees based on the safety of the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-007-020.u27	Thank you, Mr Birke, and I ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and end with item number 20. The Minister will still be in his place, and the rapporteur will be, because the next item on our agenda is item 21, which is
