ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u1	216. Information of the Government on the procedure in the case of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD At the request of Members of the KSČM Club, you have been given a motion for a resolution in the bench, so you should each have it at your disposal. And now I ask that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka take the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Let me say hello for the second time today. During today's sitting day of the Chamber of Deputies, we will be able to see each other like this several more times. We are about to receive this report, we are going to have oral interpelations, and I assume that at 18 o'clock I would speak to the current situation in the European Union after the Brit decision in their referendum. Now let me focus on privatizing the OKD. I have prepared information that I think is quite comprehensive, exhausting and plastic. It shows how this mining company was privatized and shows it in the context of the events that have taken place in our country over the past 25 years. Allow me, then, honourable Members, to comment on this report. I will begin by recalling the history of privatization of the Ostrava-Carvin mines as it has actually happened in recent years. What I will say in my report is supported by facts, documented by relevant decisions, documented by government resolutions and similar legal acts. The most important decisions I will be talking about concerning the National Property Fund or the Government's decisions are naturally also available in the archives. The initial privatisation of the Ostrava-Karvin mines was, in general, strategic decisions on the specific way in which privatisation was carried out in Czechoslovakia after 1989 at all. It was a new legislative environment for the management of state-owned property, the principles of transfer of assets from originally national enterprises to new legal forms, often public limited companies, which was to enable them to be privatised as a result. Equity companies are forms of corporations where individual owners do not own any specific parts of the assets or abstract shares, but own shares which are entitled to participate in the management of the company and also in profits from dividends. The State as the holder of the shares is not in any particular privileged position against other shareholders. The important thing is who owns most of the shares. This must be borne in mind when we want to address the issue of privatization of the Ostrava-Carvin mines. It was in the matter of maintaining the majority that the state gave way, even in 1996, when the decision of Minister Skalickýý got rid of the majority stake in the stock company OKD. Let me first comment on the first stage of privatisation, which is related to the creation of OKD and also related to coupon privatisation. The privatisation of OKD was decided on 29 December 1990, which means 26 years ago and before the division of Czechoslovakia, then Minister of Economics Vladimír Dlouhý. This is Decision No 208/1990 with case number 1804/401. By this decision, the State-owned company Ostrava-Karvinská doly was abolished without liquidation. As of 1 January 1991, the joint-stock company Ostrava-Karvinská doly, OKD, a. s. was established. This joint-stock company was registered on 21 January 1991. All assets of the cancelled state-owned company were transferred to the newly created joint stock company. Unlike Mostecký coal, for example, the entire housing fund of OKD was added to the property of the new joint stock company. The difference is apparent from the founding agreements of both companies. In the case of Mostecký coal, the government evidently leaned 26 years ago to the opinion that the flats are not intended for the business of this company. Since 1991, since the creation of this joint-stock company, the State has been able to influence the handling of OKD's assets, whether in mining operations or the handling of OKD's flats, only through the exercise of shareholder rights in the joint-stock company. From then on, the government could not decide directly what was going on in OKD, for example, it could not adopt a resolution on what was going on with OKD mines or OKD apartments. By this act, the transfer of OKD's assets to the public limited liability company privatised the management of the entire company. [[11.10 hours]] The privatisation of the shares of the new company OKD itself took place, honourable Members and honourable Members, in several stages. At the time of Klausův' first government on November 11, 1993, the then Minister for National Property Administration and Privatization, Mr. Jiří Skalický, decided to privatise part of the shares of OKD. Once again, it is a decision that is known and which is traceable. It is a decision with the number of the case 630/2150/631 of 1993. On the basis of this decision, 40 per cent of the shares - I repeat, 40 per cent of the shares - still held in the state's assets were privatised by the so-called coupon method. The State did not receive any funds for these shares through the chosen privatisation method. So what happened? 40% of the shares of this company, in which all the assets of OKD including OKD flats were transferred, began to be privatised so that 40 percent of the shares of this company were privatized in coupons. This means that these 40 percent were distributed in the form of coupons without the State receiving any return for 40 percent of the shares. Another part of the shares of OKD was transferred to 12 local municipalities free of charge - again stressing free of charge. Specifically on the villages and towns of Havířov, Horní Suchou, Doubravu, Orlovou, Stonava, Ostrava, also Petřvald, Paskov, Staríč, Albrechtice and also Český Těšín. Another part of the shares of OKD was transferred to the Restitution Investment Fund. Following this privatisation, the State had only a close decisive share of shares in OKD, less than 52 percent. They remained State-owned through the National Property Fund. It was only later shown that this decision to break up shares between small shareholders made it significantly easier to control the entire company by a private entity and contributed to the full crowding out of the State. But I'll come back to that in my performance. The decisive moment when it comes to privatization of OKD comes in 1996, 20 years ago, 1996. It was at the end of Klausův' first reign, and it is a series of following steps. The State Fund of National Property requested OKD management of the Minister of Skalický's approval to reduce OKD's capital by CZK 3.5 billion. From the original 27 billion to about 24 billion crowns. At that time, Minister Skalický agreed to a reduction in capital 20 years ago. 28 May 1996. For the record, it was only a month before the demise of the Ministry of National Property Administration and its privatisation. As a reason for the reduction of the core capital, it was stated that the company's assets were significantly reduced as a result of the continued decline in mining. In June, the general meeting of OKD, where the state had a tight majority at that time, decided to implement this reduction in capital. In the extract from the OKD Commercial Register you will find the following entry: By decision of the general meeting of the company of 7. 6. 1996 decided to reduce the company's capital to CZK 24 billion 300 million by taking shares out of circulation. According to the data provided by the Ministry of Finance, this reduction took place by withdrawing from circulation 3.5 million shares sold to it by the National Property Fund for a symbolic one crown per share. For 3.5 million shares, the FNM received CZK 3,500 from OKD. Three thousand five hundred crowns for three and a half million pieces of OKD events! However, this step reduced the FNM's share of OKD below 50 per cent of the share capital. In particular, the share of FNM was 45,8%. This decision came into force in April 1997. Thus, this step was withdrawn as such and in the spring of 1997 the decisive share of OKD's equity was lost. This development, from 1993 to 1996, which I described, was absolutely essential, honourable Members. The general meeting of shareholders decided on the reduction of the share capital, where it was to become a majority until then. If the reason for the capital reduction was the real loss of the company's assets, it could have been done differently, across the board. So laws and regulations were regulated at the time. The theoretical basis, however, was already in the original privatisation project from 1993. The said 3.5 billion were included in the project as a reserve for possible mine depression. It could already be remembered when the State would use this reserve, and it should also be guaranteed that it will retain a majority stake in the company even in this case. However, the decision of the then government was different. The capital reduction was done unilaterally, the state's share in OKD fell below the decisive 50 per cent, without the State receiving any revenue from privatisation for the state budget, I mention 3 500 crowns. The state disposed of most of the shares of OKD from 1993 to 1997 on the basis of its own decisions without obtaining any consideration for it. This decision by the state authorities between 1993 and 1997 seemed backwards to be a faulty number of economists and politicians, in the future this step was incomprehensible and inexplicable also identified by the respected expert, the nestor at the Ministry of Finance Eduard Janota. How did the state lose control? Now I want to describe how the OKD privatization went wildly. As the arrival of new owners of OKD took place. In 1996, however, everything was not lost from the state's point of view because the State, together with the Restitution Investment Fund, where the FNM had a majority, and together with the municipalities, could still, if necessary, make a decisive majority of the shares in OKD. However, this changed in 1997, when small shareholders from coupon privatisation, including municipalities, and including the State-controlled Restitution Investment Fund, sold their shares in OKD to a private bank. It was an IPB that bought the shares of OKD for the unknown owner back then. It was written in the newspaper at the time, I quote some of the passages written by Hospodářské noviny on 27 August 1997. So I quote from Hospodářské noviny: "In theory, IPB could buy up to 50 percent of shares from investment funds and small owners in a strategic mining company. The state is still in control of the share of about 46 percent, whose privatisation according to the head of the fuel section of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Josef Doruška will not be nearly as fast as with brown coal companies due to the environmental and social obligations of the OKD." One of the interested entrepreneurs in the article gives an estimate of the situation. According to him, "it is likely that the mining company will seek to reduce the capital which, at the expense of the National Property Fund's share, would take account of the ongoing downturn in the inefficient shafts. Then the share of the IPB would clearly outweigh the strength of the FNM," he said in August 1997. [[11.20 hours]] On 25 September of the same year, information was published in the same sheet on who the share package purchased by the bank appears to be intended for. Again, I quote: "The state is in danger of having to sell its share of the Moravian mining company below the price. The IPB Group holds around 28 percent of the shares of OKD according to two commonly well-informed sources of Economic News and, at the request of an anonymous investor, seeks to reach 34% of the share. This package could significantly devalue the planned sale of the state 45 percent of OKD shares, which should still be realised this year." 1997. It is clear that this year the government, the second government of Václav Klaus, was preparing to privatise the rest of its shares, and the private interested parties made great efforts to make this step as advantageous as possible for them. The role of the State at that time should clearly be to implement actions that would minimise losses on public state property. According to the legal conditions at the time, the IPB was not allowed to own more than 10 per cent of the shares, so it was clear that it was planning to sell these shares to a third party. Hospodarske noviny then speculated on potential interested parties. Among other things, Mr. Stanislav Pros from Prosper Trading or a group owned by the Českomoravská doly Kladno. The article also states: "Industries of industry and finance have not yet agreed on the model of privatisation of coal companies, and negotiations on this subject are to take place at the beginning of October. " On 2 October 1997, Hospodářské noviny reported that the State is concerned by the IPB procedure and intends to privatise the shares as quickly as possible. I quote again. "The Ministry of Industry and Trade and the National Property Fund are disturbed by the procedure of the Investment and Postal Bank, which buys OKD shares for an anonymous investor so far. Both the Fund and the Ministry are therefore discussing a common procedure that would make it more difficult for a bank that owns the resources of the Economic Newspapers to make its intentions more difficult." The Chairman of the Board of Directors of OKD, then Ivan Dzida, said that the result of the State's efforts should be an accelerated privatisation of the company in the context of the previously proposed scenario. I quote: "We agreed with the MIT that the philosophy of privatization of OKD should be completed by the end of the year," Dzida said. The head of privatization of the strategic companies of the National Property Fund and the State Representative in the OKD bodies Norbert Kraus admitted in those newspapers that the owner of the OKD package could push the state to sell its entire 45 percent of the mining company at the lowest possible price. The honourable Members, in November 1997, according to the information available, OKD's economic ministers actually discussed the privatisation of the government and agreed on the accelerated privatisation of a large part of their shares in the form of a tender. Hospodářské noviny reported that the IPB is buying shares for Stanislav Pros and is seeking state share among other things Czech Moravian mines. "According to our information," they said at the time, "the group now has 32.5 percent of the shares of OKD around IPB and buys them for Prosper Trading," said Petr Otava, CFO. His company is interested in a state interest in OKD. However, it wants 45 percent of the shares and offers about one billion crowns for them. With this very precise and detailed documentation of what took place in 1997, I want to show a typical example of the so-called wild privatization. The state at that time, thanks to the government's decisions, did not directly influence OKD events. With his own decision, to which he was not forced, he lost the control package of shares in OKD. The remaining shares of the company were purchased by a private bank in bulk. It wasn't clear who their owner was. In 1997, Mr. Petr Otava spoke about the purchase of state shares in OKD. It was the 45 percent that remained with the state. He spoke of the sum of one billion crowns for which he would be willing to buy these shares. To become with his hands in his lap looking at how the value of his property falls and how control acquires unknown business circles. How did the situation around OKD develop further? About March of the following year 1998 the media began speculating about OKD tunneling. 1998. Then the state swung to a sharper reaction. A general meeting of shareholders was convened on April. At the turn of March and April 1998, information on OKD shares is also received from small shareholders and municipalities by Eurobrokers. Here comes another breakthrough in the process that lost control of OKD. It's about municipalities and cities. The municipalities and cities that had a stake in OKD due to the first coupon privatisation and the fact that the share was transferred to them have been swayed and have sold their shares to Eurobrokers, which they received from the state for free. Municipalities and cities in the region received free shares of OKD and sold them to Eurobrokers. Thus the state's hope for restoring its influence in OKD has definitely disappeared, which could have been restored by voting with the State of the municipality and by voting with the State of the Restitution Investment Fund. So the state tried to negotiate with the municipalities faster, restore the majority. At that time, and this was 1998, he began to cooperate with Patria Finance Zdeněk Bakala. At this point, we're talking about the official Tošenovský government. The Ministers of Industry and Trade and Finance at that time were Mr Kühnl and Mr Pilip. As a result, information about Eurobrokers' relationship with Prosper Trading Stanislav Pros Group appears. At the same time in April 1998, IPB sells a package of shares to an unknown buyer. Only in the middle of the year will it become clear that Prosper Trading and Mr Stanislav Pros own the shares. On 20 April 1998, OKD's board of directors refused to co-opt the representative of the National Property Fund. A week later, a general meeting of shareholders took place, which clearly showed that the state is no longer in control of the situation, and Eurobrokers now has a decisive say in connection with Mr Pros. 1998. Another general meeting took place in August 1998, which finally confirmed this trend. The State could pursue the exercise of its shareholder rights as it wanted. He just didn't have the majority of the votes he needed anymore. Private shareholders coordinated their action against the state. By decision of this general meeting, concentration and sale of shares of private shareholders took place. The new owner and dominant player in OKD are the Czech Moravian mines associated with the Lords Otava and Koláček. I stress that at this point, the state still owned the shares, but it did not have enough stake in them to influence what was happening in society. That is why I explained in the introduction how stock companies work. By this time the company was fully controlled by private shareholders thanks to the majority, which they achieved by wild privatization. Before I go on to describe the situation, I would like to briefly summarize what took place in OKD during the first eight years of the existence of this joint-stock company. All property including the housing fund has been inserted into the OKD. The state lost the majority in this stock company on the basis of its own decisions. The state lost the majority in this joint stock company without obtaining any relevant funds for this majority. In 1998, the State was also expelled from the authorities of the company, which means that it was in fact no longer able to exercise a decisive influence on the functioning of the public limited liability company. On 14 October 1998, a complex transaction takes place which changes the owners of OKD. [[11.30 hours]] First OKD is bought by K.O.P, which has shares in Českomoravské valleys and Sokolovské coal. Managers K.O.P Viktor Koláček and Petr Otava send some of the funds to Karbon Invest. Carbon Invest will become the owner of the majority share of OKD shares and itself will become the subject of trade through the Cypriot company. Only later will it come to light that the new owners of Karbon Invest are Koláček, Otava and other partners. The fact is that the subject of the transaction described was only and exclusively a private holding in OKD. State shares were not affected by this movement in 1998. The fact is that Karbon Invest bought a private stake in OKD, strictly majority, in 1998 for CZK 2.4 billion. Carbon Invest bought a majority stake in OKD for CZK 2.4 billion. 1998. For the state it meant that together with him own OKD a strong group, which owns other companies in Českomoravské valleys besides Ostrava. This strong private owner has a majority, controls the mining industry and elsewhere. In addition, at that time, there was a belief that the state should not directly organise coal mining. The only logical conclusion for the State in 1998 had to be to take the best steps to privatise the rest of its shares in OKD. The 1998 elections gave rise to a new government under the leadership of Miloš Zeman and was confronted with the reality that I described a moment ago. It is true that the Social Democrats in the elections then sought a mandate to stop the OKD's fierce privatisation, but OKD was already under the control of the private coal business. In addition, the state was beginning to have problems with the dampened mines and reclamations, the government had to look for ways to eliminate also the costs of the downturn. Therefore, the government of Miloš Zeman sought a way to implement the privatization of the minority share in OKD. In May 2001, the government then adopted Resolution 453, on the basis of which the restructuring of OKD was to take place, the division of the company and the transfer of its part led by the Odra Dole to the state-owned undertaking Diamo. In December of the same year, the Minister of Industry and Trade Grégr submitted material to the Government on the basis of a May resolution specifying the terms of this proposed operation. In this material, which you can find under the government number 1697 from 2001, i.e. proposes that after the restructuring of the company, the housing fund should remain in the property of OKD, the state should take over the dampened mines with employees. State shares in OKD were to de facto be exchanged for shares in Sokolovská uhelná and Metalimex, both owned by the same group, which had a decisive interest in OKD. So Minister Grégr suggested selling shares in OKD to their owners, taking from them mines in decline and keeping them in OKD flats. But this government resolution was not adopted at the time. In June 2002, the Minister of Industry and Trade, together with the Minister of Finance, proposed that the government open an exclusive meeting with LNM Holdings, a group owned by part of the engineering industry, today's part of ArcelorMittal. The objective of the exclusive negotiations with this envisaged acquirer was to sell all State-owned shares in OKD. Against this step, the existing owners of OKD have significantly defined themselves. Mr. Koláček then publicly declared that he was controlling the OKD, and the state's progress began offensively attacking the media. Subsequently, at the June general meeting, private shareholders did not allow the representatives of the State to exercise their voting rights for formal reasons and enforced the withdrawal of the remaining representatives of the State from the Supervisory Board. In addition to the fact that the State has not had a decisive influence for several years, it has also lost access to information. He didn't have anybody in charge of the business at the time, and he had no way of putting him there anymore. Lidové noviny quoted Mr. Chalupa's press spokesperson at the time. Now we're talking about 2002. The owners of OKD thus want to prevent the intention recently approved by the Czech Government when LNM Holdings provided an exclusive to the sale of the State's business share in OKD. This company, based in a tax haven in the Netherlands Antilles, is not transparent and untrustworthy for us. We need to make it clear to our business partners and, in particular, financial institutions that we do not want to have anything to do with a similar investor, which rather reduces corporate credit. In this situation, elections to the Chamber of Deputies were held on 14 and 15 June 2002. The new government was appointed in July of the same year. As a result of the expulsion of the State from the Supervisory Board and preventing the exercise of shareholder rights at the June General Meeting, the State appealed to the Court and requested the annulment of the decisions taken by the General Meeting. However, in June 2003, the Court of First Instance gave the truth to private shareholders. In this respect, the management of OKD publicly expressed concerns that the State's strategy would not lead to a reduction in the sale of coal. In the spring of 2003, they also publicly declared that they would sell the OKD housing fund at market prices. At the time, the government was looking for a way to complete the irrefutable process of privatizing a minority stake in OKD, in a situation where the owner of the majority stake threatened and began to take both miners and tenants hostage. In a situation where the state was shut down from influence and private owners complained that its progress threatened the results of the management, and in a situation where the view that the State had no coal-mining power of its own was a logical path to privatization and to ensure the social viability of the next procedure. In November 2003, the Government decided to open negotiations with the majority owner of OKD, Karbon Invest, to purchase the remaining state shares at the best possible price and under such conditions as will no longer result in the destabilisation and deterioration of the social situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region. During 2004, the government decided to sell the state shares of OKD, the remaining shares of OKD, to Karbon Invest under agreed conditions, i.e. they included a condition to ensure that environmental and social damage caused by any downturn in their activities is minimized. The share price was originally set at CZK 2,250 billion and subsequently, following the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition, at CZK 4,1 billion. By its resolution on 15 September 2004, the Government decided to privatise the state's equity in OKD with a purchase price of CZK 4.1 billion for a minority share of 45 percent of the shares. There was a further escalation of the situation. Then the OKD leadership subsequently even arrested the police, initiated a criminal prosecution. This prosecution was considered unfounded by the Court in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go back to OKD, let me devote myself to the way in which, in fact, the privatisation of such large state-owned companies took place with us at the time. I will try to demonstrate on another example, in the case of another coal company, that the wild privatisation and the possibility of wild privatisation at that time were not just a case of OKD, that unfortunately this was done by the state also for other companies. So the fate of the ODK, which I described in very detail here, i.e. that the shares were first introduced into the coupon privatisation, then the wild privatisation, the state lost ownership, most of it, was repeated, unfortunately, in other cases. [[11.40 hours]] I will mention another case that has been heavily mediated, even in recent years it has been heavily mediated, and this has been the privatisation of Mostecký coal. The joint stock company was established in 1993 by a merger of three former state-owned enterprises - the Hlubina, the Komořany and the Ležáky mines, which were located in the central part of the North Bohemian brown coal basin. Then, just as with OKD, we will find the division of shares in privatization, when the state lost its majority stake. First there was a division in the second wave of coupon privatization, when 42 percent of Mostecký coal was privatized by the coupon method. The state once again offered shares in the coupon method. Interestingly, the state even kept only 37 percent of the shares in the National Property Fund at Mostecký ko coal. The whole 17 percent was transferred to cities and municipalities, which means the state actually deliberately diluted the ownership stake and reduced it in this way. We'll find exactly the same distribution where the state doesn't have a majority, private investors just have to buy some of the shares from small shareholders to prevent the state definitively restoring the majority at any time in the future. Then we find a similar model of a private investor who starts buying small shares. As early as April 1998, Synergo Suisse managed to concentrate the share of 49 percent of the shares of the Mostecká coal company. In May 1999, this company even acquired a tight majority, just over 50 percent. This means that once again, if we look at the situation of Mostecký coal, this company was mostly privatised by a private owner without the State being able to influence who the private owner would be and without the State obtaining a single crown in the state budget. The state lost 50 percent of the shares in Mostecký coal, didn't get any money for it. Miloš Zeman's government also then proceeded to privatise its minority stake. The Government's resolution of 28 July 1999 approved the privatisation of 46 percent of the shares of the Mostecká coal company. Direct sale to the owner of Invest Energy was approved for the agreed purchase price of CZK 650 million. So the government then privatized the minority stake in the Mostecký coal company for CZK 650 million. It was about CZK 160 a share back then. I would just like to remind you that it subsequently occurred that the privatisation of Mostecký coal was repeatedly dealt with by the police at the initiative of the state. She was saving suspicion that Mostecká uhelná was dominated by money, which she was obliged to postpone to reclamation. The Czech police investigated mine control for almost ten years. She postponed the case in the summer of 2008. The investigation was also conducted in Switzerland. Six Čech and one Belgičan were investigated. In March 2009, the Swiss Prosecutor of the case closed the privatisation of MUS. In July 2009, the media reported that the police are again investigating the sale of MUS. In 2011, the Swiss prosecutor charged seven people with money laundering and fraudulent financial manipulation. In 2012, the Attorney General gave rise to the charge of managers. The Czech Police also initiated a criminal prosecution involving the withdrawal of $150 million from the Mostecké Coal Company, which was subsequently used to purchase the shares of this company. In October 2013, the Swiss court recognised six defendants who lived to see the judgment, guilty of fraud and money laundering. This is a case of privatization of a mining company that had a number of identical moments in the beginnings with OKD, including the fact that at some point the state voluntarily disposed of the majority and subsequently the company was dominated by private owners, companies with an opaque structure. There is a judgment by the court that confirms that, in the wild privatization of Mostecký coal, billions of them were reported to have been stolen. As far as the OKD's wild privatisation in the 1990s is concerned, we have never received any decision from the court. I will now briefly comment on the question of finding an adequate fee for a minority stake in OKD in its re-privatisation. All supporting documents for decision-making, including price assessments, were provided for the Government in 2003 and 2004 by the National Property Fund. The National Property Fund had two opinions at its disposal. In February 2003, Vox Consult's opinion was established, which estimated the value of the minority share of the government in OKD at CZK 2 billion. In March 2003, Komerční banka prepared an assessment and calculated the value of the state share to less than CZK 1.5 billion. The reports differed by method and differed by what part of OKD they appreciated. Their aggregate value was CZK 3.5 billion, which is also an estimate of the adequate price by the Office for the Protection of Competition at the time. The price at which the state's shares were eventually privatized was CZK 600 million higher, i.e. CZK 4.1 billion. The price at which the government sold the minority stake was higher than the one established by the expert reports and the one stated in its opinion by the Office for the Protection of Competition. I would remind you that the State did not sell individual parts of the company's assets in 2004, sold real estate and did not sell individual subsidiaries. The State was the owner of a minority share of shares in a company that had not been under control for several years. The State sold shares and decided to make an expert valuation of their value. I would remind you that at the end of 2002 there were still private bids for the purchase of shares of about CZK 20 million, i.e. about CZK 650 million. Nearly 4 percent of OKD shares were free to trade on the market at that time and their average price at that time oscillated around CZK 348. The assessment of the National Property Fund set a price higher than the market price, at CZK 367 per share. In addition to the sale of the shares itself, the government introduced several privatisation conditions into the privatisation conditions. The transaction was negotiated during the period when the Czech Republic joined the European Union, and it was then important that the government, by its decision, should not put the State at risk of granting unlawful aid. The Government has agreed to clarify the conditions for the management of the OKD housing fund and to include in the conditions a provision that, if, at any time in the future, it was found that the sale was made from the point of view of European law, so-called illegal aid, the State has the right to withdraw from the contract at any time. However, none of the finance ministers has since found illegal support. Competitive companies tried to call into question the adequacy of the price at which the shares were sold. There's been an offer from GNT. Penta attacked the prize before the European Commission. This is why the European Commission first addressed the validity of the price in 2006. In 2006, the European Commission concluded that the aid was not unlawful. After 2006, there were very significant changes in OKD, some of which, in my opinion, did not comply with the privatisation conditions. First of all, the company's restructuring was divided into part of the mining sector and part of the housing business. So the apartments actually got different from the original owner. As a result, at the initiative of the Chamber of Deputies, the government decided in 2009 on the basis of an audit that the owner of the flats, RPG, should pay a contractual fine of CZK 30 million for non-compliance with the terms of the privatisation agreement. In connection with the division of the original company, Ernst&Young's opinion was established, which evaluates OKD's total assets to over CZK 52 billion. This assessment relates to the book value, not to the price of the shares sold by the State in 2004. None of the addressed authorities or institutions, the Office for the Protection of Competition, repeatedly the European Commission, questioned any of them's final price for the sale of shares. The European Commission evaluated it even twice. For the first time, as I mentioned, in 2006 and for the second time, she evaluated this issue in 2011. [[11.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote from the European Commission's opinion, whose translation we naturally have at our disposal. The Commission informs the Czech Republic that, following a review of the information submitted in the above case, it has taken a decision that the sale of a share in OKD of 45 per cent of the shares of Karbon Invest did not contain, as explained in this Decision, any element of State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 107 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 27 January 2005, Penta lodged a complaint to the European Commission concerning the sale of a minority stake carried out by the Czech State on 16 September 2004, claiming that the sale did not take place through a transparent tender procedure and that the price was lower than the market price. The Commission shall comment on this and assess the price of the shares as sold on the market. Again, I quote to the European Commission: As far as expert opinions are concerned, OKD's financial investments in Metalimex, Al Invest Bříličná, Sokolovská uhelná were awarded in the second expert opinion. The other subsidiaries of OKD were not assessed separately because of their very small financial importance or because of their inclusion in the business activities of the parent company OKD, which had already been assessed in the first assessment. The prices of both prized parts were then added up and the European Commission confirms, quote: The total value of majority or minority participations in OKD in these companies was set at 3.1 billion. CZK, of which CZK 45 per cent would correspond to CZK 1,4 billion. Crowns. After adding the valuation according to the first expert's assessment, the total value of the state's share in OKD of 40 per cent would amount to 3,5 billion. Crowns. The most important passage of the opinion from page 9 and further clearly demonstrates that illegal aid has not been granted. I also quote from the European Commission's decision: In order for a State measure to constitute State aid, four requirements must be met collectively: (a) it is a State measure or through State resources; (b) the measure favours the beneficiary on a selective basis; (c) the measure distorts or threatens to distort competition; (d) the measure affects or may affect trade between Member States. Where a Member State sells participation in an undertaking, there is no advantage if the behaviour of a Member State is in accordance with the conduct of a private seller in a market economy. The sale does not confer any advantage on the buyer if the sale price corresponds to the market price. One of the cumulative conditions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the existence of State aid, so-called the advantage would therefore not be met. If the privatisation of the State's shareholding in the company is carried out by selling it, it serves as a benchmark for assessing whether the transaction in question in relation to the State's assets contains an advantage, whether a market economy operator and put in a similar situation would have behaved the same way. That is, would he sell the company's shares at the same price? This principle has been repeatedly explained by the Commission and consistently confirmed by the European Court of Justice. Since the Czech Government only sold a minority stake, it could not expect it to receive a mastership premium from the buyer. Therefore, the price of free-traded shares can in principle be regarded as a good indicator of the market value of the minority share, although a large difference in the volume of the shares in question, 4 per cent in the free-traded, 45 per cent of the minority share would mean that both prices would not necessarily necessarily be automatically identical. The Commission also examined the observations made by the Competition Authority, which stated in its opinion of 30 April 2004 that, in view of the small volume of free-traded shares, their explanatory value is limited because there are too few transactions to make a meaningful market price possible and this value could be manipulated. The Commission considers that the development of the share price over a period of 180 days prior to the sale shows no signs of sudden strong movements indicating manipulation. In addition, the relevant period, according to the Commission, included 129 business days and an overall volume of 11 244 shares. However, this commercial activity, albeit limited, is a certain indicator of the market value of the shares. The Commission, therefore, honourable Members, confirmed that the selling price exceeded the market price of the shares at that time and that the government's chosen method did not create illegal public support at that time. Finally, I will sum up an explicit statement from the European Commission's opinion. The Commission notes that the sale price of the state share in OKD of 45 per cent was the market price of the freely marketable shares of OKD in 2004. The sale by the Czech State of a tranche of 45 per cent of OKD shares was granted by the Czech State to a private seller's market economy test and therefore, without the existence of an advantage, the acquirer does not have State aid within the meaning of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In accordance with the above, the Commission concludes that the sale of the minority stake of the Czech Republic in OKD of 45 per cent to Karbon Invest did not contain any element of State aid. All this, including detailed arguments, has been available to the Czech Republic since 2011. Representatives of the following governments were informed, the Director-General of the Competition Directorate delivered this decision to the Foreign Minister. Other matters are criminal notices relating to expert opinions, where the judgment has not yet been delivered. I repeat, however, that we evaluated the stock price and sold the shares in 2004. I wanted to give a very detailed description of how the privatisation of the OKD joint-stock company took place. Since 1996, the state has not been able to say "we no longer have control over it" clearly. There's this strange notion that when almost half of the state owns it, it's definitely worth it. It didn't matter. Unfortunately, the whole time he was defensive, and it's a mistake that it wasn't said out loud back in the '90s. Our government has committed itself in its programming statement that we want an effective and functioning state, and at this point I would like to reiterate what this means. This does not mean that everything that works in this state we want as a state to own. But we no longer want to allow the state to stand idly by as functioning businesses fall under the grip of private hawks. This is our response to wild privatization, which in this country has cost a lot of employees their jobs and also their life security. And it's definitely our answer to honest businessmen. Let me now comment on the current situation of OKD. Currently OKD, a. s., is in decline. Insolvency proceedings started on the company management proposal and announced by the court on 9 May this year. The reason for insolvency is the nominal debt of the company. According to published data, OKD owes over 17 billion. CZK and has more than 650 creditors. On 10 August a meeting of the creditors' committee was convened. The State is in a position of creditor as a result of outstanding social security payments for employees of OKD. [[12.00 hours]] The Regional Court in Ostrava on 26 May restricted the possibility of the parent company NWR to decide on OKD. The interim measure is, according to the court's decision, for example. any cessation of mining or other restrictions on operation. Given the state of finance and the economic model of the company's operation, there is a real threat of halting mining activities and redundancies. So far, about 345 employees have been reported to be fired during the summer. It is clear that the company will have to look for ways to reorganize its activities. Without a court-appointed insolvency administrator and a competent court, shareholders cannot exercise their property rights and the State's intervention also has no legal support. The Court of First Instance does not rule on the opening of insolvency in any way, but only announces this fact within two hours at the latest by a decree to initiate insolvency proceedings. However, the effects associated with the opening of insolvency proceedings occur at the time of publication of this Order. I stress that the state is purely in the position of a creditor alongside more than 600 other creditors. Any speculation about the possible sale of OKD is a purely private matter. For the State, he is now a partner of the insolvency administrator in the ongoing insolvency proceedings. It is an insolvency administrator who now has relevant information on whether trade union suspicions are true, that OKD management has not been all right in recent years. If it turns out to be a reasonable suspicion that the shareholders did not manage in OKD properly, for example, that they did. They paid dividends which the company did not earn but had to be indebted for, and I expect all the necessary actions to be done by the insolvency administrator of the insolvency court. In this situation, the government, of course, is preparing and implementing measures to prevent the impact of social impacts as a result of possible redundancies in OKD. We want to offer people in the Moravian-Silesian region a perspective that will not leave them dependent on the will or not on the leadership of the OKD. We have enforced the earlier retirements of the miners, we have approved a regulation whereby the miners are entitled to an exceptional allowance of CZK 7 to CZK 8,000 per month due to insolvency. That is why we are very often present in the region as a government and explain how to ask for wages in case of insolvency. That is why we are preparing retraining, mobility contribution, support under active employment policy. We are preparing an application for a contribution from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. We are also prepared and focused on monitoring how safety is guaranteed by the OKD management when operating down. On my proposal for a tripartite meeting in June, a special working group was set up with the participation of the state, the Czech Mining Authority, the Moravian-Silesian Region and local municipalities, with the participation of social partners. In this group, we coordinate together steps towards best defending the interest of the state and citizens as well as employees of OKD in relation to their legal claims towards the employer. We are also preparing a restructuring strategy which will provide adequate support for the mining regions, which have a structural burden on which they themselves are unable to bear, to move forward. We are of the opinion that mining in the region, whether it is the Moravian-Silesian region or Ústecký region, does not mean that the region cannot be modernised in the future. On the contrary, I think that these regions, local people who have spent years of their lives working honestly in demanding and qualified professions, have know-how that can be very useful for modernizing the industry. I just want to point out how successful the automotive and engineering industry has been in the Moravian-Silesian region in recent years. I would also like to point out how both Ostrava universities have changed in recent years. This, I think, is the way for both of these regions, which are affected by the decline in coal mining. The way of investment, the way of modernisation and the way of new jobs. The government naturally very closely monitors the current situation in OKD. We have made it clear that we are ready to deal with the insolvency administrator, with the management of OKD so that we can support OKD in our efforts to ensure wage pay and keep this company operational. I strongly agree with the opinions of the management of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the regional tripartite, the views of the mayors of the towns and municipalities in the Moravian-Silesian Region. The best solution is to keep OKD in operation in the coming months and only a gradual decline in coal mining. It is evident that, given the situation on the black coal market, it will be very difficult for OKD mining to continue to the current extent in the long term. It is therefore important for restructuring to take place. This is now the liability of the creditor committee, the court and the insolvency administrator. The government is ready to look for all steps and solutions to support the OKD in operation to ensure social reconciliation in the region. And if the people of OKD are released, we want to give them a new perspective, and we want to give them a new chance. I would also like to point out that a number of other regions within Europe are dealing with similar problems with the decline in coal mining. We don't have to go far. We see a situation similar in Poland. A number of European countries have already adopted a decision to end coal mining in recent years. Coal mining has ended in Great Britain, coal mining will also end in Austria and Germany. In these cases, whether it was Germany, Spain, Britain, governments could count on them, on the other hand, to have a responsible owner who is preparing for a gradual decline in mining, to have a responsible owner there, who will also provide resources to resolve the future of people who will have to leave the mining industry. In all these regions, whether it is Germany or Spain, these are long-term projects at the end of which coal mining will end in the coming years. We're in a different situation. In my opinion, OKD did not have a responsible owner in previous years. If it did, instead of paying dividends, OKD would create reserves for future bailouts, for future downturns. Such reserves were not created in the company, and I therefore think that OKD did not have a responsible owner. OKD is now in a situation where it is in decline, and it is therefore obvious that the government will have to play the main role in the stabilisation and social stabilisation of the region in cooperation with the region, in cooperation with the municipalities. And I want to make it clear that our government is ready to help the Moravian-Silesian region to stabilise the social situation in the coming years. The key is the gradual decline of mining and the key is keeping OKD in operation, event. finding new investors that would keep at least a significant part of OKD in operation in the coming years. honourable Members, at least so much facts and basic information concerning the long history of privatization of OKD. As I have informed you, this history was launched 26 years ago. It had several key moments in which the state lost the majority in which the state sold the minority stake in OKD. We are now in a situation where we are dealing with the future of this company and we are dealing with the future of the people who work for this company. I firmly believe that together we will find such steps, whether legislative or executive, which will mean hope for current employees of OKD even when, in a few years' time, coal mining is likely to end completely in the region of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and Mr Marek Černoch will be given the floor, but I warn him that he will be the rapporteur of this point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a fairy tale full of numbers, full of data no one understands, a fairy tale in which the good Prime Minister is not to blame. There have been a lot of accusations against the governments, but there has not been one crucial information, and the fact that the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister Sobotka, today, is signed under the privatisation in 2004. What is happening in Ostrava today, in the Moravian-Silesian region, is indeed a tragedy that allows tens of thousands of people to lose their jobs, not only the miners, but also the people who are committed to the work that is there. Let me introduce you to the facts that led us to propose this extraordinary point. The privatisation of the state's participation in the OKD case took place in 2004 and was the responsibility of the then Minister of Finance and today's Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. The State's participation was sold on the basis of an exclusive act by Karbon Invest. OKD was valued at 4,5 billion for privatisation purposes. Crowns. For this amount were sold not only the Ostrava-Karvin mines themselves, but also 44 thousand mining flats in Havířov, Ostrava and Karviné, 1,200 flats in Kladno, a total of 32 subsidiaries of OKD and other real estates such as land and recreational buildings. Ernst & Young's expert opinion, which was mentioned here, subsequently determined the value of OKD net assets on 31 December 2005 to 52 billion. Crowns. Of this alone, non-operating assets were worth over 22 billion. Crowns. The fact that these reports exist, Prime Minister, I'm putting them on your desk, read them. [[He's handing over a comprehensive file to the Prime Minister.]] Tens of billions of crowns in the luft! Among them are not only mentioned mining apartments, but also subsidiaries, the vast majority of which were not appreciated at all for the calculation of privatisation, and Bakal was thus handed over to today's Prime Minister Sobotka for free. It is, for example, OKD Transport, which was practically the largest private rail carrier in the country at the time of privatisation and whose market value was about 1.5 billion. Crowns. The new owners appreciated the unappreciated subsidiaries from two expert institutes and the reports showed that the value of the companies was 12 billion. Crowns. One of them, OKK Cokehouses, for example the Zdeněk Bakala Group sold for more than 2.5 billion. Crowns. Other assets sold free of charge from the state include, for example, the Mining Hospital in Karviná or hotels in Prague, Frýdek-Místek, in Petrovice u Karviná, which Bakalova group sold for a total of 150 miles. Crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Sobotka says for over 4.5 billion. The OKD property couldn't be sold. It's nonsense. Only 1,200 mining flats in Kladno were sold at the price of 4.2 billion. The crown, which is almost the same amount for which Bakal was sold, is more precisely handed over to the entire property of OKD. The fact that the entire operation was fraudulently carried out also shows that the valuer who valued the assets for Mr Sobotka in 2004 is now in court because of this estimate. Two other officials from the then National Property Fund are also before the court. Personnel ties are also important in this matter. Immediately after the sale of the state share to Karbon Invest in September 2004, Zdeněk Bakala informed Karbon Invest that he had mastered the property, and thus he also dominated the privatized OKD. This transaction was being prepared for more than a year and the sale of OKD to the business group Zdeněk Bakala probably started preparing before the government even decided to privatise its state share. The privatisation contract for the seller, i.e. the National Property Fund, was signed by Pavel Kuta, a former member of the Supervisory Board of Bakal's company Patria Finance. Head of the BIS Economic Department, Mr Procházka, who was in charge of the protection of the state's economic interests and had the responsibility for this privatisation, soon joined a high management position in Bakal's business group. The circle is closed when the European Union's opinion that the whole privatisation is in order was made by Mr Pokorný, a close friend not only of Prime Minister Sobotka but also of Mr Bakala. This is crucial for the whole thing, because the sales contract contains a guarantee that, for a situation where the Commission would call the sale illegal aid, the Czech Republic could withdraw from the contract. We all know how Mr. Bakala treats the property that Mr. Sobotka gave him. The mines themselves are basically being demolished today. Mr. Bakala sold non-operating real estate. The promise that Mr Bakala will first sell the apartments to the tenants in Ostrava has not been fulfilled to this day. The owners of OKD now justify the company's failure by dropping coal prices and increasing mining costs. This claim can be very easily refuted because coal prices and mining costs are at the level of 2006 or 2007. The dramatic economic situation of OKD, which led to the opening of the legal proceedings, is due to the removal of valuable activities from OKD and the disadvantageous debt of the company to the parent NWR. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a brief list of data that shows that this is a tunnel against which the Blanka tunnel is just a tiny loophole. Everyone's acting like nothing's happening at all. It's happening! And it needs to be told who's responsible. A lot of people said there's no point in opening this case, that nothing's gonna change. But I believe he will, that he will. According to some sources, OKD and other companies have been drained from 100 to 120 billion. Crowns. Dear colleagues, 100 to 120 billion. The crown! This is approximately in the calculations of 137 hospitals, 850 kindergartens, 3 000 CZK extra pensioners etc. Today, unemployment threatens not only thousands of miners, but also a lot of other people and hundreds of companies. And companies are already in default. I want to ask, are you really okay with that? You think everything's okay? I don't think everything's okay, and someone's responsible. And whoever's responsible has to bear that responsibility. It is our moral duty to dismantle and investigate all the circumstances that have caused this case and to hold those involved to account. Fall for who? I don't want to name anyone, but somebody's just responsible. All you have to do is look at the media and see how many OKD lawsuits are being filed, how many companies are suing, how many people are OKD, how many people say that responsibility is on today's premiere of Sobotek. I think that what was said here by Prime Minister Sobotka, the many accusations, the many numbers and the data, is a clear signal that there is a need to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because if there is a clear conscience, there is no reason to worry. Unless there is a clear conscience, of course there is reason to fear something. I want to thank you for the opportunity to talk about this case, because I really think that today is the central cause that is in the Moravian-Silesian region and which can cause great tragedy there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u5	Before I give the floor to Mr Luzar, there is one factual comment by Mr Grebeníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that many consider Bohuslav Sobotka to be responsible for the privatization transaction of OKD, when the state lost tens of billions, the buyer obtained property almost free of charge and a large number of tenants of mining flats were literally and cheated into the letter. Prime Minister Sobotka should show extraordinary activity in this matter, he wrote recently even the ex-premier Jiří Paroubek, because the Ministry of Finance under his direction and for the seconds of his personal friend Radek Pokorný prepared OKD including 44 thousand. mining flats for sale in 2004. Jiří Paroubek even added that Sobotkův's Ministry of Finance prepared contractual documents that kind of resembled the contract between Zanzibar and Great Britain. So let the Prime Minister make it clear whether it was a pre-arranged fraud or whether Zdeněk cheated on Bakala, too. Yes, as an opposition politician, I would finally like to know whether the privatisation of the OKD and the housing fund of that company was not an illegal public support and a multibillion-dollar donation to the Carbon Invest and the peculiar entrepreneur Zdeněk Bakala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u7	Mr Luzar will now appear with the KSČM club's opinion. Therefore, it has priority rights. After that, everyone... Well, I apologize, Congressman, for one more point in fact, Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u8	Thank you. Just for a very short time. This is where it really fell... we were talking about 52 billion. We talked about the fact that all the property was not appreciated, and I would ask the Prime Minister, then, if he, of course, would be willing and able to answer these questions after Mr Luzar's speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u9	Now, with Mr. Luzar's opinion on the club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for voting in favour of the inclusion of this item on the proposal of the KSČM, so that we can discuss it. I think that the citizens of the Czech Republic deserve this comprehensive information and deserve to know what will happen next. I also want to thank the Prime Minister for summing up the history of OKD privatisation in his hour speech. Personally, though, I think he forgot one thing. He started his debate by integrating OKD into coupon privatization. The mess we're talking about started early. The trouble began on November 1, 1990, when the OKD was separated from the CSM mine in Stonava and together with the Kladno mine in Libušín and Tuchlovice was privatized. Here the State deliberately created competition and created a group which subsequently participated in the negative result of the sale of OKD in the following years. To this day, it is not clarified what led the government to this step on November 1, 1990. Everyone's going around, nobody's talking about it. No one wants to say that, even then in 1990, a real estate coup in this matter was prepared to form a capital group that could then do it, and I allow myself to use the expression of crap. I'm sorry. The problem that has been described here in history, many call pure capital incest. That's a terminus tech, please. That's not swearing, that's an expression expressing what happened to this company's shares. And the Prime Minister rightly described what was going on. I would like to stress one thing that did not come out of the Prime Minister's mouth. There is talk of institutes, organs, government, fund. But they're all specific people, specific names, specific political parties. At the time that the Prime Minister spoke of, there was a ODA political party here, for commemorators of the Civil Democratic Alliance, which has historically controlled these funds. Who controlled what we're talking about today. These people who participated in this are honored citizens today. They're honorable experts. We meet them in various forums where they perform and represent the interests of industry. They represent the interests of the Czech Republic. Without any shame, they're proud of what we're dealing with here. They're already out of politics, of course. However, it bothers me as a citizen of the Czech Republic that they can perform here without shame, because the Czech state is unable to solve these problems, and, as has been said here, fall to whom, to hold these people accountable. And the Prime Minister has also talked about responsibility for a long time. The fact that flats don't actually exist in OKD, because they haven't actually been discussed anywhere, the prices of flats, that's what my previous speakers have been talking about, and I believe others will talk about it. But I cannot go from the position of KSČM policy to this, because, after all, shares and the value of shares, I cannot compare it to the value of citizens, to the value of citizens' housing. And this was the fundamental mistake of the then social democratic government that it mixed the value of housing with the value of shares and at all devalued the value of housing. I will skip the stage that the Prime Minister has already mentioned. And I would really like to know how Roman Češka's former head of the ODA fund will explain why the National Property Fund decided how it decided to reduce the OKD's capital. Yes, the Prime Minister is right. There's a buried dog. Let's ask who it's good for. Either it was the enormous naivety of the then ruling, or - where I dare to keep the question mark. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Even from this title, point 4 of the motion for a resolution of our club, which we have put into the system, is also in the proposal for a resolution of our club. It's all on your desks. I won't read it. But this point 4 could prove and find out if it was really just naivety or if there were any interests. Mostly financial interests. Because it is not possible and logical for someone worth the company to forget the value of the shares to appreciate the entire factory. I mean, that's completely illogical! Didn't anybody read an expert opinion in the government back then? No one has ever assessed this expert report in the region, for example, to tell him that there are no significant factories in the expert opinion that fall into the OKD? Didn't anybody think of that at the time and read only the first page, where was the value? He signed it as Minister of Finance. And I ask, is this rule today in the preparation of government materials that we rely on what they present to us and do not read?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u11	Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u12	If you look at the motion for a resolution that we have prepared, I will start from the back, because I do not want to go back to history anymore. In paragraph 3 of this motion for a resolution, there are questions that a citizen of the Czech Republic should hear and, above all, the answers to these questions should be heard. And I firmly believe that if we adopt this resolution on these points, we will be able to say how it really was then, because, thanks to President Klaus, we may never be able to implement the criminal code of this matter anymore, because its revolutionary amnesty has prevented the solution of these matters in the level of judicial power. I don't want to delay history any longer. It sounded very extensive here and let's say unilaterally, because it was just chronology, as if you had read it from Wikipedia. Nuance and issues, points 2, 3 that are there, remain unclear. But I will return to the future, to what awaits us and what interests all the citizens of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Ústí Region, who are interested in the miners that we often harbor here and say that we defend their interests. [[12.30 hours]] First of all, the fuel energy concept of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is still largely dependent on coal as a raw material for electricity generation. The Prime Minister said that we would support the downturn, but in other words, those power plants need coal every day. Therefore, I ask in terms of our resolution, Article 2, that the government ensure the possibility of mining all kinds of coal as irreplaceable mineral wealth of the Czech Republic today, but also in the future. And I think that the future is mainly important in this part, because the government has not yet said how far strategic the raw material is coal. Another thing related to the decline in mining is point B. The government should ensure the protection of deposits reserved for the mineral of the Czech Republic from their negative deterioration in the event of any changes in ownership relationships or termination of business. Because what's in the OKD? Where did those financial groups suddenly come from who are so interested in the failing mining industry that they are able to offer resources to the government? Well, they figured, first of all, the crisis in energy might not last that long, but most importantly, the OKD also controls mining licenses for coal that hasn't been extracted yet. And these are hundreds of billions of crowns lying underground. And who controls this, prevents competition from entering this market, and will be able to blackmail the government in the future? And that is why I ask the government how to ensure that within the framework of the bankruptcy, the insolvency administrator also treats the state's ownership of these licences for future coal mining as part of the OKD solution. I ask, and here was a hint of an answer, under the responsibility of the supervisory authorities of OKD. We have privatization contracts here. The privatisation contracts certainly dealt with how to proceed in the downturn, as should the firms that acquire assets in privatization proceed in the future. Yes, the state took care of it. I have here, for information, a contract on the state's environmental obligations towards the OKD. Before privatization of OKD, the state committed 27 billion to bail out environmental damage to the future acquirer of these industrial units. That already, the price should be interesting for later price developments. But the state did its duty. How do these owners fulfil their obligation to the State, that is, to maintain and create reserve funds for possible damage and liquidation? And if he doesn't, and the Prime Minister here has said some hints that have arrived at him, how will it cost to recover damage from the responsible bodies of the company and the supervisory bodies of the company? This question should also be raised. It happened, as the Prime Minister jokingly remarked, before he joined the government. So I ask: the government, however, has the security forces of a state that are supposed to send signals to the government that something is wrong. How does the government evaluate and read these signals? How does the government react? And now I am not talking about what has been said here in the past, how she evaluated the BIS reports etc., but how she evaluates the situation today, how she has mapped out the actions of current active participants in this case, which is not closed and which is constantly affecting Czech society. What I consider to be one of the most important, and in this proposal by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as a central issue, and I believe that my colleagues and colleagues will still discuss this in detail, I consider it one of the largest, and I apologise, Prime Minister, by the perversion of the current government, that it has put miners from one region against miners from the other region. [[A round of applause from KSČM Members' desks.]] What you've done is really sick. We are witnessing when miners from the north of Bohemia are responding, why are the Moravák supposed to have some special advantages - and we are doing a lighter job? This is a huge political error that you have committed in your capacity, but I believe you are able to correct it, or at least take it into account. That is why we have proposed a resolution not only for miners, because we appreciate the hard work of all workers, which would allow all these categories to go into early retirement and use all the opportunities that the rest of their lives give them after this hard work. I quote Article 9: The future of workers in the professions of health-exploiting activities to an extent that prevents their possible further employment by means of an accelerated amendment to the pension law, so as to allow early retirement for all the employees concerned in accordance with international standards defining heavy work. I would like to point out that there are international standards in the world that are commonly applied, so we will not invent anything just because we here in the Czech Republic want to take care of our hardworking workers. They already have this in the world. And if we're thinking about retiring for more and more years for economic reasons, this is a way and a solution to help these disciplines, which are internationally defined so that they can retire sooner. Prime Minister, I believe this is a hot political issue before the regional elections. Both regions, which are mainly concerned, are regions where social democracy, but also the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has its constituents and is clearly and clearly fighting for them. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in this motion for a resolution we are focusing on the future and we want a clear strategy for the government and a clear promise that those people who have sacrificed hard work all their lives will not let this government and this House save the free hand of the market, such a popular message by right-wing colleagues. I believe you will find the courage and time to discuss our proposals in the government. I believe, colleagues, that you will get to know the motion for a resolution that we have tabled and that you will support it in your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u13	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, there is one technical remark from Mr Grebeníček and then one from Mr Novotný. I beg the Prime Minister to be patient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the speech by my colleague Luzar, I would like to remind you that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was the only political party here in the House that expressed its opposition to the privatization of OKD and pointed out that joining the European Union and the free market was not competitive, that it was necessary to approach the decline in programming and create new jobs in the region. Therefore, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek is wrong when, in an interview with journalists, he said that no one five or ten years ago could have known that OKD would be in decline. Of course, who knows our mining geological conditions and in other countries, which determine the mining costs to a decisive extent, knew this but was not heard. [[12.40 hours]] Prime Minister Sobotka often talks about immoral conduct and violations of promises by Zdeněk Bakala in this context. But shouting about immorality and non-fulfilment of promises is a weak argument from a lawyer, at least in my opinion. No, I don't know the content of the respective privatisation agreement, but rather than the moral aspect of the negotiations that Bakala type won't make sad because for him and his similar figures, the only morals of the money being taken away, so I think Prime Minister Sobotka should give information about how the contract was designed and what legal institutions were, or rather, not enshrined in it. If it was a good deal, the court would be very clear today, and so would we. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u15	Thank you. Still Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, we have heard here from the previous speaker about how the miners in the North Moravian Region and the Ústí Region were actually pitted against each other. Personally, I don't think it's that high. I am very glad that the government has faced the problem in the North Moravian Region as it has stood up to, and that it is trying to address this problem, which I think is certainly not the government's fault. On the other hand, I must say that it is also a bit forgotten here that it belongs to the mining industry Sokolovsko, Sokolovský Růžír, which does not belong to the North Moravian Region or to the Ústí Region, but belongs to the Karlovy Vary Region. So I'd like to point out here that we need to think about the miners in Sokolovsk. I am very pleased that the government has made a government agent for the Karlovy Vary Region and for Sokolovsko, and I believe that the programs that will be prepared for the surface mines will also be for Sokolovsko. I also believe that it will be found here in the form of the owner of Sokolovské coal partner, who will actually cooperate on the decline of mining, and that the whole situation will not result in the whole situation escalating, as is the case in OKD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u17	One more point of fact - Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u18	Mr President, I am only for the tapestry - the Moravian-Silesian Region, not the North Moravian Region, for a few decades.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u19	One more point of fact - Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u20	Good noon, unfortunately, I too must be the one who will abuse the Rules of Procedure, because given the time, I would probably not get to be properly registered. For me today's point is very difficult and internally painful because mining in Ostrava has a 200-year tradition. Feudalism survived, early capitalism survived, Hitler survived, socialism survived, and modern-day Czech capitalism did not survive. That's sad, very sad. Those miners used to dig the same way. I think they've been working a lot harder and harder these days. And what is their destiny? They cried about the way the standard political parties ruled here. This is the Prime Minister talking about who's to blame. It's them, it's them. But also ČSSD, ODA, ODS here have butter on their heads. Today we are in a situation where there is a real danger of collapse in the Moravian-Silesian region. I had a meeting, I am a representative in the mining town of Orlová, which is very, very badly affected or depending on this industry. We had a meeting with suppliers, small companies that work closely with OKD, and they have to cooperate. And at this point, the government is dealing with the situation of the miners, the shafts, but it doesn't solve the situation here with these small employers who are ready to survive, but at this point, they need a helping hand, and unfortunately, they don't have this helping hand yet. The Prime Minister was at a meeting on May 6 with representatives of the Moravian-Silesian Region, there was negotiations with tripartite, he promised a solution, and at the moment this solution is not. So I'm using this speech of mine to appeal to the government to actually start actively addressing not only the question of miners, but also the companies that follow up on it. [[Time warning]] Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u21	Mr Mládek, then Mr Černoch, then Mrs Aulická, then Mrs Havlová and then the Prime Minister with priority rights. But in fact, they have priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a factual response to Mr Grebeníček's speech on what is causing the situation in the Ostrava mines to be difficult. The cause is a number of things, and it is by far not just a question of privatisation, how it was done and whether it was made up of stocks of money for a possible crisis situation, because commodity prices, including coal, are subject to cycles, sometimes prices are down, sometimes they are up. However, I would like to say with full seriousness that it is not really the European Union's fault and entry into it. After all, long after the entrance, the mines prospered quite well. There's a lot of reasons for that. There are a lot of countries in the world that produce coal very cheaply, most of which benefit from surface extraction. And unfortunately, it contributed to this development in the People's Republic of China. China became one of the world's largest coal importers ten years ago, and thus capacity was built in Indonesia, Australia, South Africa, Kazakhstan. And all these countries were supposed to bring coal to China. At the time when the demand for coal decreased in China, they are essentially just domestic production, even assuming that they will shut down their own mines, capacities are suddenly being built around the world from where coal was to be driven to China. They don't drive there, but they drive around the world. And unfortunately, the coal imported into Hamburg, Bremerhaven or Rotterdam is still cheaper than the one that is mined from the depths of Ostrava. That's one thing I wanted to say. And a response to the problems of small employers. At this point, we are trying to solve the problem of working OKD, so that the insolvency goes into reorganisation, and that's the main problem, lending money to the company, the claim will be for the essence, or it will be preferred, and if this is resolved, then even small employers will be solved. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u23	Thank you. Mr Černoch, a factual point, will be prepared by Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u24	Thank you for the floor. That's part of the problem, of course, mining. The second part of the problem is clear facts on how the issue will be dealt with today in the Moravian-Silesian Region, how it will be dealt with in Ostrava. And the second part is who's responsible. There are still 52 billion, 52 billion crowns that have escaped. And if it was an omission, if it was an intention, or if it was the Prime Minister, or then the Minister of Finance, so naive that he was fooled by Mr. Bakala, then that's his problem. There's responsibility here, and someone has to be responsible. Make him pay for it. That's the only way to deal with it. And the government? The governments were here, no one cared. It wasn't so long ago when we witnessed a big monologue here, that everything was stolen and that OKD here was also a burglar. It didn't matter again. Dawn together with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia opened this case, so let's bring it to the end and let's be clear who is responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u25	Now, Mrs Aulická, Mrs Havlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'd just like to speak to my previous colleague Novotný through you. Don't be mad at me. You're saying the government will take care of the miners and other mining companies. In May 2016, the Government's regulation on aid was approved on compensation to miners only in OKD, i.e. not to other miners throughout the company benefiting from coal. But somehow the miners at the ČSA mine were also forgotten, where, on the basis of the decision on the decline in mining from October 2015, the compensation was promised, and it was also forgotten, as you say, about the compensation in your region in Karlovy Vary. [[12.50 hours]] Not to mention that the government is preparing a new government regulation where it gives North Energy, or employees of North Energy, but there is no one or any company within the Karlovy Vary Region on that list. And just allow a brief response to Minister Mládek. You know, there are also cheap profits in the Ústí Region, and you have sent coal mining to the ČSA mine to decompose by your decision of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u27	Yes. The next will be Mrs Havlová. I'll read the apologies. Mr Sedláček for work reasons, Mrs Semelová from 14.30 pm for personal reasons and Mr Kudela until 11 pm for no reason. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very short. Because it wouldn't get to me in the debate, so I took the tech one here. For me, one vital piece of information is important. I would still follow up on Mr Luzar, who indicated here that no further estimates had been made. I got information that two estimates of two independent experts were made, and they were essentially not different, and they both estimated the price of OKD at 51 billion. And now the most important thing. The year is 2004 and I was reminded that in the Polish house in Ostrava there was a meeting of the Regional Committee of the ČSSD, which was attended by some members of the then government. Among the most famous, I would mention Mr. Stanislav Gross, Lubomír Zaorálek and our current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. And this regional committee, based on those expert opinions, was made a resolution in which it is recommended not to sell OKD to the government. Do not sell for 4.1 billion because the mere price of the flats was calculated at 12 billion. And even when I wanted to confirm and document this information, we were looking for this resolution in the ČSSD archives and in a miraculous way the year 2004 and 2005 are missing in these archives. I would like the Prime Minister to comment on this, too. And what really bothered me was the Prime Minister's speech said that the flats weren't for business. Eventually, they got to the business. And another thing is that we're having our national wealth stolen from all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u29	Now, with a point of fact, the Prime Minister and then Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to comment on the construction of one of the miners against another. Because it really wasn't meant to be, and it's not from the government. How this thing actually happened, it is conclusive, because all these documents are public, the government is transparent. The Minister of Industry and Trade suggested that the contribution be provided to the government, and the material prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade was designed to provide the contribution not only to the miners released from the OKD in the Moravian-Silesian Region, but also to cover the Ústí Region. That was the proposal that the Minister of Industry and Trade came up with in the government. It was a proposal that was supported by ministers for social democracy, but we did not agree with our coalition partners. So if the government was to approve the draft regulation as a whole, it was necessary to make changes in the proposal. We complied with the objections of coalition partners, we made changes in the proposal, but I declared clearly on the spot and I also asked the Minister of Industry to submit the question of contribution to the miners who will be released at the ČSA mine precisely because the government decided to limit them to the government separately. So no one has forgotten anything, nobody wants to put anyone against anyone else, only in the government did not receive support from the Minister of Industry to make the contributions paid in the Ústí Region, and the government will discuss it separately. And I firmly believe that we can agree, even personally I would consider this an unfair decision if the government decided that there would be a downturn in the ČSA mine in the Ústí Region, if we supported the idea of not breaking limits, so at the same time we should also accept co-responsibility for social stabilisation in the region. So it is important for us to re-enter the government's meeting so that the government can reconsider, and I firmly believe that this will happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u31	Please, Mr. Fiedler, who is... Not anymore. There is one more point in fact, Mrs Aulická. So first, Mr. Fiedler and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u32	Thank you for the floor. It's 12:55, and we're running out of time. We're dealing with social issues here, we're dealing with how we're going to put miners from one county against another. Look at the board. Information of the government on the procedure of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD. We're starting to melt again, we're talking shit again, we're running out of time to get to nothing. That's why. But I don't look at my colleague that I would like to say something like that specifically. It was said here from the Prime Minister's mouth that in privatization, during the privatisation of OKD there were steps taken that he stopped. I agree with that. And then I'm interested in or I'm asking a question - and why didn't anybody react? Why didn't the politicians who were here in front of the ANO colleagues in front of the Dawn colleagues? Social democracy was here. There were other parliamentary parties here. But the Prime Minister was also a member of previous governments. It points out that the privatisation was not going well. Why didn't the previous governments respond? If steps were taken disadvantageous to the state, if the state was damaged, why did no one react? I wasn't here, my colleagues weren't here before me or on the right. Why didn't it happen? We have 12.57 hours, there is a number of applicants and I am curious whether this meeting or this item will have, sorry, this item will have a sequel before, for example, a meeting on the investigative committee to the post office, which is postponed indefinitely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u33	I beg Mrs Aulická and the Prime Minister, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I really must respond to your last performance. You put miners against each other both from the Moravian-Silesian Region and from the Ústí Region, because you promised in the Ústí Region that if you closed or terminated mining at the ČSA mine, you would simply give them compensation. That was not the resolution approved in May 2016. Now you're doing everything you can to make this situation right, but in that new government regulation, you're only talking about North Energy employees. This is about a third of employees who are 100% connected to coal mining at ČSA mine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u35	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u36	Thank you. I just want to assure the Chamber of Deputies that the government is really ready to actively address the situation in the Moravian-Silesian region. But, of course, we are also prepared to actively address all the information that we could use to defend the legitimate interest of the State towards owners or former owners, where owners have failed in their responsibilities. This means, undoubtedly, it is an area that we want, and we will also be clearly paying attention as a government. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And as for the analysis of privatisation contracts, you know, there's one big problem. There are no privatisation contracts to privatise more than half of OKD shares. So it is difficult how to actually analyse them and how to evaluate the fact that OKD shares have been distributed and the state has not received any funds for them. There weren't any expert reports to evaluate the majority's OKD award. No experts were invited. It wasn't even the will of the state that he should get some money for it. The state just handed out the shares in different ways. But he gave them away so that then actually speculators could buy them and as part of the wild privatization they got to the majority in OKD. But even as part of the wild privatization, no contracts were made. That means there are no contracts with Karbon Invest that made him -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u37	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u38	- the majority owner of the OKD. In 2004, the government sold shares of Karbon Invest. She was selling a minority stake in OKD. The acquirer was Karbon Invest. And I made it clear in my speech how Karbon Invest became the owner of the majority part of OKD. And that's when the government saw as the most reasonable socially viable path to sell the minority stake to whoever owned the majority stake in society. Carbon Invest, these were the gentlemen of Otava and Koláček who performed for Karbon Invest. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-002-216.u39	It's 1:00. We've fixed point 218 for one hour. So I will interrupt this point, and I assume that it will be the subject of an agreement by the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, as we will deal with it further. So I'm opening up a point.
