ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u1	64. Government bill amending Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on specific health services, as amended, and some other laws /house print 874/ - first reading Thank you, Minister of Health, for staying at the rapporteur's desk. I will ask Mr Pavel Antonín, who is the rapporteur of the next item, to come to him. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, on a government bill amending the Act on specific health services and certain other laws, I would now like to state the brief characteristics of the proposed legislation. The preparation of the amendment to the Act on Specific Health Services was mainly based on knowledge gained from practice in its more than three years application. This processing also took account of the conclusions of the project Cooperation between employers and employers and employees in the area of application of the new legislation on occupational health services, which were adopted at the 120th plenary meeting of the Economic and Social Agreement Council. The proposed core changes consist, in particular, in the regulation of medical care, including occupational services and the assessment and recognition of occupational diseases, taking into account the relevant conclusions of the project already mentioned. The proposed changes in assessment and occupational health services will contribute to simplify procedures for the issue of medical opinions, reducing administrative and economic burdens for persons under consideration, employees and applicants for employment and employers, as well as for health service providers. For example, in cases defined by law, the possibility of giving up the right to review a medical opinion is enshrined. In the case of occupational health services, the possibility of providing occupational health services through a service provider other than the employer's contractual provider shall be introduced on the basis of a contract concluded between the contractor and another provider. This should contribute to increasing the supply of professional health services on the market, thereby simplifying employers' access to such services. [[12.10 hours]] It is also proposed that, in the case of the performance of the first category work and the assessment of the medical fitness to work by the practical physician of the staff member, in order not to be required to provide other occupational health services for which supervision and advice are required. Other substantive changes consist in the modification of castrations and genetic examinations. Castration will be possible from the legal conditions to be implemented by the person concerned at the age of 21. At the same time, it is possible to undergo castration in particularly justified cases also to a patient who has not yet committed a violent sexually motivated crime. The proposed modifications to genetic tests reflect developments that have occurred in recent years in the field of clinical genetics. On the basis of new legislation in practice, unidentified genetic laboratory tests will not be carried out and providers who have newly obtained authorisation to provide health services in the relevant field will be able to carry out genetic laboratory examinations under newly defined legal conditions and thus obtain the documentation for granting accreditation. Partial clarifications are also made in the provisions of the Act defining sterilization, medical exposure and protective treatment. Following the above amendments to the Act on specific health services, where applicable. they are also subject to a partial amendment to the Public Health Act, following the occupational services, the amendment of the Labour Code to specify the entry medical examinations and the assessment of the fitness for night work, as well as the amendment of the Act on administrative fees and the Act on the Social-Legal Protection of Children. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I hope that you will support the Government's bill, which means specifying the provision of health services in the areas governed by the Act on specific health services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Pavel Antonín to present his report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u4	Hello, colleagues, hello, Mr President. After a banged topic on the education of nurses, we went into a rather calmer waters of specific health services, because these are the waters that a lot of people don't really know about, and few of you have taken the 105 pages of change in this law into their hands. Four years ago, in 2011, we discussed the Act on Specific Health Services here and put it into action. During the three and a half years we tried it, there were several places in the collage of the pieces of this law that need to be used and improved. In the meantime, several new laws have emerged, which also need to be implemented into this law, and this House press has been created. I have gradually written down all the points that are changing there, he has read them in the meantime by the Minister, so I will not read you all the castrations again, and I will not be a reviewer, but it is really necessary that we change this law into the form it requires today. And I hope you all understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate and have Mr Ludvík Hovorka's application for it, which is the only one registered so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to touch on only some areas of this law, particularly assisted reproduction. There's §5 Gender choice for health reasons. This means that in vitro derived embryos are selected for non-inherited diseases or are not at risk for certain diseases. Other embryos, although healthy, are destroyed or used for research with parental permission. In terms of preventing hereditary disease, it is reasonable, but I would point out that this is ethically questionable. In Section 6, I believe that the age of 49 is too high for the embryonist. I know older women are impregnating, but I don't think it's reasonable. Section 7 requires the establishment of the medical fitness of both the sperm donor and the egg donor. For an anonymous donor, however, it would be desirable to also know his social history in addition to medical examination, e.g. a person who has not been punished is not socially inadaptable, is not weak in reason, etc. Perhaps it would be desirable to know the quality of a child's father in general. It can be dealt with by psychological and social, not just by medical history. In Section 9, there is no solution to how many embryos are allowed to be produced in one cycle, at one IVF. In many Western states, only one embryo or three are allowed. Right, they should all be placed in the uterus, which is inappropriate, because of course the risk of twins or triplets is too high. I don't know if this was regulated by the implementing decree, but it's a pretty serious matter. In Section 10, there is no indication of how many women may be fertilized by the semen of one man in the region. Maybe it could be in the decree, but I don't know. In fact, there is a risk that children of one donor can meet later in childbearing. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child has the right to know who his biological parents are. In some countries, Austria, Scandinavia, the child is told of this when he reaches age, if he so requests, but there is no obligation for donors to do so. Section 11, which concerns, say, fertilization tourism. Women come to the Czech Republic from countries where artificial insemination is not allowed and are allowed to be fertilized with heavy money. There is also the donation of eggs for money. It's either the export of eggs or young women go abroad for collection. According to the Bioethical Commission of the Council of Europe, human cells, i.e. gametes, cannot be paid for. Cases of Romanian women who donated eggs to Germany or Great Britain, with a health risk, have been published. Part two concerns sterilization. I'm not sure that a sterilization committee is only needed for people with limited legal powers. Otherwise, in section six of genetic testing, I think it's positive that there's a ban on cloning and a ban on making chimeras in the law. I would still like to touch on the verification of the new procedures. It's therapeutic research on a living person, i.e. research into new treatment methods. However, it is not explicitly said that it is also about research into new medicines. It should be taken separately. There is also no talk in this head of non-therapeutic research, i.e. basic research, that is, research on a living person who serves only for greater knowledge, but is not looking for new treatment methods, and is being examined by a person into the system or entering it as a volunteer. This area is subject to an additional protocol on medical research by the Council of Europe biological commission. This protocol was submitted to the Ministry of Health, but it was no longer discussed. I don't know what his destiny is. These are my comments on this bill, which I consider necessary, but I considered it necessary to introduce you to certain areas which I consider to be controversial and unresolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u7	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and before we proceed to the next debate to which the rapporteur is reporting, I apologize - when reading my apologies, my colleague Běhounek apologizes until Tuesday 13. 9. He is present today. So now, Mr Pavel Antonín in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u8	I'd just like to answer some of the questions that Mr. Ing here. Hovorka's down. Some of the problems he named are part of the law, which is before first reading several times in the House program. I remember from the plaintiffs my colleague Chalánková and some other colleagues. There's probably gonna be a discussion about that when the law comes on the House show. [[12.20 hours]] With regard to the sex of embryos that are fertilized, the law clearly does not allow the sex to be separated, only in the case of sex chromatin bound and diseases that could seriously harm the fetus. I understand that this is a minefield that needs to be moved on, but the law makes it clear and clear, and if it is so clearly followed, it is absolutely clear. And then there are questions about the number of embryos. And it's problematic that not every embryo is starting and developing in the right direction and right direction. So you can't say I'm only going to impregnate one, and I'm going to let the other cells die. If the embryo dies during development and doesn't pick up the right system, then you're actually gonna lose the whole cycle, and all that work is wasted. So this is very badly controlled, the number of embryos in a given cycle. In addition, it is possible to freeze the embryos and use them during other cycles and the woman does not have to go through the entire artificial insemination system again. I can't remember what else is in there. The number and use of sperm in the region is just part of the bill that is proposed here and which will probably be finally loaded sometime soon and around which discussion will take place. I think I'll leave it to the committee to discuss the parts of the law that concern research.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-005-064.u9	I thank Mr Pavel Antonín, who spoke in the debate. I don't have anyone else logged in. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] Mr. Rapporteur? [[No.]] It's not like that. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We can decide in the 140 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Health Committee as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. There's 149 in the vote, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Health Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose the commandment to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone have a motion to order another committee or other House Committees? It's not like that. I therefore note that the proposal will not be directed to the next committee, and we can proceed further. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 64. The next item is paragraph 65. The Minister is ready. I just have to give the opening words. That means my colleague Krákora is already on his way as a reporter. It's about
