ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 32 and 33 of the House Press 637 and 638/ I beg the first to sign in, which is Mrs Halíková, to take the floor, and Mr Adamec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, members of the government, honourable Members, hundreds of billions of crowns are spent each year on works, supplies and services, not only in drawing funds from European funds, but also from national subsidies or from national budgets, whether ministries, regions, cities and municipalities. All contracting entities must, of course, follow the current Public Procurement Act. The competition, for interest, is a year-on-year contract in the total volume of nearly 600 billion. Crowns. In discussing the present, as the Minister has already pointed out here, the new law, not the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, is constantly confronted with the pressure that we need to adopt the new Public Procurement Act quite quickly in order to comply with the preliminary condition of the European Commission to draw European money. However, both contracting authorities and candidates expect us Members to make sure that if they proceed under this law, they will not get into trouble both with subsidies and will not face a criminal announcement, which, unfortunately, is always literally multiplying in the period before the new elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u3	Madam, I am very sorry and I am asking the House for peace, both on the right and on the left. The middle is exceptionally quiet, the noise comes from left and right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u4	The bill submitted is very extensive, what is more extensive than the existing one in paragrafo. However, the question is whether the expectations I have spoken of actually meet and will meet. Therefore, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development did not only deal with what was presented to it at its meeting but conducted a number of consultations with representatives of the regions, towns and municipalities as well as with other contracting authorities. I must say from the debates that have been held that there is a concern that we should not pass a law that needs to be amended before all contracting entities learn to use it. Concerns about what I have just said are also to a certain extent enhanced by the number of amendments that have been dealt with by the various committees and which are the subject of today's second reading of the bill. I was surprised, honourable Members, that dozens of amendments were initiated by the Ministry of Regional Development itself as the promoter of this law. Only the Public Administration Committee had a total of 38. The draft did not appear to have been able to bring three and a half thousand comments in the interdepartmental commentary procedure into shape before the House's meeting or after the settlement. What is striking is that the Ministry of Regional Development is counting on the issue of a number of methodologies. The reason for this is that methodologies can be adapted more easily according to current needs than in the law. If such an approach were applied, however, contracting authorities could drown in a number of methodologies and, on the contrary, they would find out what to do. As an example, I can state that the Ministry of Regional Development has refused to set criteria in the law for setting an extremely low bid price, because this does not reflect the diversity of the subject matter of the contracts and the original formula has ultimately been excluded from the European directive. However, the possible formulas are intended to contain a methodology, which will in turn trigger, I dare say, the fear of excluding significantly undervalued offers in order to avoid lengthy disputes and appeals to the Office for the Protection of Competition. According to the petitioner, does the law have to give the contracting authorities more responsibility, but does that mean more autonomy? On the contrary, it can strengthen their addiction. From some representatives of municipalities where they do not have lawyers, let alone legal departments, we have repeatedly heard on the committee that they are going to increase dependence on lawyers and, in particular, on specialised firms that prepare selection procedures and their evaluation. Thus, even after the adoption of the new law, there is a risk that many funds from the budget will not go to the citizens of so much expected investment, but rather to legal and professional services so that mayors and prosecutors may not face criminal prosecution as far as possible. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should see our specifics further at the time of approval - and that is what the Minister has been talking about - of 30% more work than the European directive permitted by 50 per cent, but also the current trend in the conduct of political combat by criminal notices relating, in particular, to public procurement. In the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we discussed 120 amendments received by the Committee before today's second reading. The Minister here gave an opinion on some of them and said in advance what we can expect to be supported and, on the contrary, where the petitioner's position will be negative. [[15.10 hours]] I would like to stop at one more amendment in my speech, which we have in our drafts from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which is listed under number 43 and concerns the issue of commodity exchanges. I say in advance that at the third reading I will call for this amendment to be voted separately, and today, in a detailed debate, I will read a change to the resolution compared to what the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development is presenting. This is because, since the Committee discussed this issue, we have been familiar with a number of facts that have not been known until then, and I have come to the conclusion that the Committee's amendment on this point is in direct conflict with the legal regulation of the functioning of commodity exchanges under Law No. 229/1992 Coll., on Commodity Exchanges and, as a result, in breach of Directive No 229/1992 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That is why I will be speaking in a detailed debate with a proposal for a change. At the end of my speech, all of you fellow Members, I would like to ask that at the third reading during the final vote we do not admit any, I apologise for the expression, the wild decision-making, but they always meant that the law should lay down clear rules for both contracting entities and suppliers, and not complicate work with them by a complex law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u5	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Ivan Adamec, please. Mrs Soňa Marková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to begin by saying that this bill makes me a little embarrassed. And I'm not saying this because I want to criticize the work of the Minister or of her ministry right now, but it's because I'm a long-time mayor and I have my personal experience with various types of public procurement laws. I must tell you that any problem that has always been ended so that, in my case, the construction of half a billion crowns stopped thanks to an official from the Ministry of Finance who sent to the UOHS because he didn't like the outcome of the tender which everyone had previously approved. And let me put it this way. I owed the construction company CZK 200 million for 16 months. I don't have them myself to pay them out of my own, so I almost prayed that the lawyers finally agreed that we didn't break anything, that the contract went well. That's what happened in the end, but the 16 months, believe me, no one's gonna take that away from you. [[Noise from the left.]] As for what the Secretary of State said, she tried to justify it very factually, very well. I warned her at first reading that I do not see this bill quite simply, because, as they say, the devil is always hidden in detail, and I fear that there will be a number of devils here. And the fact that we just think that the law will be better - and I was amused by a fellow member of the Economic Committee who said that this bill will certainly be better than the old one, so I had fun, because this bill has a hundred paragraphs more than the old one, and when I look at the number of amendments that are tabled or will be tabled, where it exceeds 150, as I have already lost some optimism in this case. Finally, as an old conservative, I say that every change is usually only for the worse, and here in the Chamber of Deputies, it's almost a rule. So I would be very careful that it will be a change for the better. I even think that this law will return to the Chamber of Deputies very soon because it will need to be amended. In the end, by the way, we were here today discussing and approving the university law, where there were a number of amendments, and I confess that for us who were not working on the law directly, the amendments, there was quite a challenge to come out of it. But I'm not saying that because we worked it out this morning, but also because it was already falling from the presidents and deans in the hallway, that it's wrong that it's going to have to be amended again. And I say it's almost the rule in this House that we approve something here, and then we say, "we know it's not quite right, but the next amendment will fix it." So here I would say that the next amendment can be bought out dearly, as they say, with the blood of our mayors and public authorities, and I would not like that very much. I have to say, of course, there's been a lot of work going on right now, but my first question was, what was the rush? I know why. Because we have a deadline. It's just the European Commission. It's obvious. We have to do what we're committed to. However, we could have started the law considerably earlier. And before I move on to what I wanted to say to you, because I will also enter into a detailed debate, I have two amendments here, and I would like the House to have a positive view of them. [[Chairman Kováčik and Chairman Mihola are talking out loud at the KSČM bench.]] I, gentlemen, can stop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u7	Please, I understand that a meeting of club presidents is important, but please be outside the O.R. or quieter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u8	But I wanted to remind you of some of the things that have already been done here. We're all wondering what kind of trouble we're having with the EIA today. We warned that it wasn't okay, that it could come back to us, that nothing was negotiated. It happened, too. So public money in the field of line construction is under threat today. That's one thing. We now approve another important law - the bill on public procurement. I think it's another major law that regulates public spending, public money. And there's still a construction law ahead of us. And if it turns out to be like the EIA, then please God, how are we just gonna use that public money? [[Someone's talking out loud, or it's quiet.]] I think... Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u9	Ambassador, it's not that loud. We've seen higher levels here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u10	It's pretty quiet here, but when someone starts talking out loud... So I'm wondering what it's gonna be like with our company in the years to come. So I'm being careful. I think that the law really deserves much more attention than we've given it, although I have to say that it has lately. Perhaps I would remind you of, perhaps, the history of this Chamber of Deputies. I will return to the first session, where we changed the Public Procurement Act among the first five bills. I think everyone remembers. And the speeches were accompanied by applause here, because of course we were the newcomers of most of us, and it was an experience. And I was just saying that when we started the law, we had this kind of shamon. [[It shows the fingers of one hand approximately 3 cm thick.]] Now that we're done, that shaman was like this. [[It shows a length of approximately 25 cm with both hands.]] And I remember - now I've been asked here why the previous governments, the previous Houses, didn't do anything about it? That's how I remember when it was during that last government that had a mandate from the House, so the so-called anti-corruption struggle actually culminated. Everyone has succumbed to the fact that in this state, the mayors and mayors steal the most, and it is necessary to sweeten it, and it is necessary to make such a public procurement law that it simply cannot be done. And it was a little forgotten that it didn't work out at all. Then we changed the place. I remember it was I thought we removed the nonsense that if one interested party applied, they had to cancel the tender. So I think we have a lot of experience with this. At the time, it was different, it was sharpened. We're a little better today. I've even read that we've jumped up the ladder of corruption in that positive sense. So I wouldn't worry that we couldn't tell each other exactly and clearly and frankly. I will make two amendments. One of them concerns a simplified procedure for the award of sublime public contracts. I'll read to you in a minute, because the text isn't exactly easy what it's about. And I must say that, in this case, it seems to me that a little bit of the author of this bill was again more papal than the Pope, that we are extending the European directive unnecessarily to a type of contract that is sufficient to regulate national legislation. That's what I think we should consider, if it's not worth it, because if we tie up contracting entities in this area, we can make more problems than benefits. The relevant Directive 2014/24/EU imposes only the obligation on the national legislation of a Member State to transpose the relevant provisions of this Directive relating to over-the-counter public procurement. The legislation on the award of subliminal public contracts is only a matter of national law of a Member State. And that's what it's all about. [[15.20 hours]] The proposed legislation, instead of a significant simplification of the procurement process, provides for a very detailed procedure for contracting entities for this type of contract. Legal regulation so-called I propose to simplify sub-limital public contracts only to the notification obligation of selected data of sub-limital public contracts on contracting authorities' profiles and to the subsequent technical obligation by means of electronic tools to transfer data thus published into one data repository. In this case, the Public Procurement Bulletin appears to be an appropriate repository. The aim of this proposed solution will be to simplify and unify public procurement in the sublime regime into one procedure and thus completely eliminate the category of so-called. small-scale public procurement. This category of public procurement shall be included in the regime for the award of public contracts under the conditional regime. The principles set out in Section 6 of the Act will then be respected by the obligation of contracting authorities to publish all contracts and, for example, from the limit value of the estimated 50 thousand. CZK without value added tax on its profile and to translate selected data on these contracts into the Public Procurement Bulletin. In this way, participation will be made possible to the widest possible range of suppliers. At the same time, a minimum period of publication of contracts in the simplified procurement procedure will be laid down. This model, if I have the right information, works in Austria, for example. The second proposal I'm going to make is about using electronic tools. The draft law does not include the possibility for the contracting authority to choose whether to use electronic instruments whose management is either provided by the Ministry of Regional Development or by electronic instruments of commercial producers. I think we need to do the same here. If I have the right information, the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a sub-legal standard for this, a decree, and I would very much not like to narrow down the possibility of competitive competition between different operators here and not just fall under the so-called. a national electronic tool that Tesco makes for the Ministry, which you can find out about each other. I think there should be competition here, and the electronic possibility should be enshrined in the law. Otherwise, at the end of my brief speech, let me wish all of us to fight through this forest of amendments and let what really comes out here in the final form of the Chamber of Deputies is what our representatives of the public administration will use effectively, so that they will not be afraid, and the decisions will be clear enough that the UOHS will be able to do something other than chasing the mayors on the basis of various incentives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before Mrs Marková comes forward, there is a factual comment by Mr Plíšek. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u12	Mr President, my dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly to the Minister's speech, in which he rejected my amendment, which was approved by the Constitutional Committee and which concerns the fact that companies which are controlled or owned by a member of the government at least 10 per cent cannot participate in public procurement. On the Committee of Constitutional Law, we learned from the Minister that the proceedings with Greece are ongoing in this allegedly similar case, but this procedure has not yet ended, and that we will be informed of its outcome. Now, after a few weeks, we've learned that the trial is over, but - and that's important - it's obviously about a whole other thing. It is alleged to concern the area of media ownership. I understand that the government wants to address the issue of chaining and ownership of the media and that it wants to present this legislation, but that is not the subject of the Public Procurement Act. So I insist those cases aren't exactly the same. Plus, my proposal has 10 percent ownership there, so there's no way to say that it's the exact same proposal that's being dealt with in Greece right now. So I just wanted to respond to it this way, that the secretary confirmed me that the proposal was okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u13	Thank you and Mrs Marková, please, and Mr Klán will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, allow me to touch on only one part of this government bill, which was also mentioned by the Minister, and this is an advantage for employers employing more than 50 per cent of disabled people. It is this government bill on public procurement that does not include this advantage for employers employing more than 50 per cent of disabled persons, which is an integral part of the legal regulations still in force. The circumstances and reasons of this procedure are often based on distorted ideas and information in my opinion. Sometimes they also rely on a tendential media image of individual excesses resulting not only from imperfect legislation, but also from the essence of the current regulation, which accentuates the price perspective and which should make substantial changes to the amendment in this respect. I believe that we should seek a rational and objective approach and not approve of a proposal that could significantly and in the long term undermine the position of several hundred employers who employ thousands of disabled workers. It should be stressed that employers of disabled persons 50+ are objectively and voluntarily economically disadvantaged by the above-half representation of people with disabilities, on average 65 per cent. Their lower economic performance is partly offset by a contribution under the Employment Act. The jobs of disabled people can be created and maintained only in the case of sufficient contracts, business opportunities that ensure the financing of the rest of the non-subsidised costs and the creation of at least a minimum profit for further commercial and technical development. The influence of course has the level of management and the ability to professionally develop employed persons with disabilities. The interest of the major business market in their production and supply, or in working in wages, is crucial for these companies. There's talk of abuse. Abuse of price advantage can be clearly prevented, at least according to the Association of Employers with Disabilities in the Czech Republic, by laying down conditions similar to those in other provisions of the amendment proposal. In particular, by limiting the sub-supply of the contracted performance so that employees, persons with disabilities of the beneficiary supplier, can be shown and controlled to participate in it, thereby significantly reducing the level of abuse. The amendment that I have taken the liberty to submit proposes to eliminate by changing the concept of preferential treatment of suppliers employing disabled persons in the procurement procedure so that the circumvention of the law is eliminated as far as possible and at the same time that both existing possibilities of advantage are maintained, and thus, in particular, the possibility of increasing jobs for disabled persons has been maintained. This is the case for Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 7 to 9 of the proposed provision of Section 38. In particular, it is proposed in the law to establish a new obligation in order to apply the advantage in question to comply with the limit laid down in the proposal, the share of sub-contracts in the context of the implementation of the public contract not exceeding 85 per cent of the value of the public contract. Such limitations on the undersupply of the contracted performance will then result in a verifiable and controlable participation of the beneficiary supplier in a public contract. From a social and socio-economic point of view, the existing provision of Section 101 of the Public Procurement Act constitutes an instrument that helps to integrate people with disabilities into the labour market, which is fully in line with the requirements set out in the UN Convention and also in the Czech Republic's initial report on measures taken to fulfil obligations under the UN Convention, which was developed in September 2011 by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, including on the basis of the documents of the Ministry of Regional Development, which shows that the Czech Republic has been included among the states which are aware of the increased responsibility for removing barriers to disabled citizens fully involved in society. [[15.30 hours]] The current event of the Ministry of Regional Development, excluding part of the existing provision of Section 101 of the Public Procurement Act as one of the instruments for the inclusion of disabled persons on the labour market, cannot be regarded as a step backwards. For this reason, I am asking to support my amendment to prevent a significant negative impact for hundreds of companies and, above all, for the thousands of jobs of disabled people employed by these companies. For them, the opportunity to work represents a way to overcome their disability and to integrate into life and society. Thank you for your support and understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u15	Thank you, Madame. I ask Mr Klán to take the floor, and Mr Herbert Pavera will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the bill on public procurement. You see, I find it quite sad how many laws we will make subject to the withdrawal of EU subsidies. First of all, I remember the service law - if we do not accept it by any date, we will stop receiving subsidies from the European Union. Now there is a law on public procurement, and once again, if we do not adopt it or do not become effective by 18 April 2016, the European Union will once again stop drawing on our subsidies. It seems to me that it's a kind of scarecrow, only the date for the law to be passed. When we had an exit meeting with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where we dealt with this issue, I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development whether there are states in the EU that... Of course, all states must implement this directive, but in what legislative process this directive is being implemented. And if any state doesn't make it to a certain date. I was told, of course, that they did not know at the time, but that they had older information, sometime last November, and it was said that Finland would not be able to implement the Public Procurement Directive as the only state. I wonder, then, what is the threat of Finsko if it fails to implement it to some date. No one's answered that to me until now. Because if there's no threat to them, will there be a threat to us if we don't accept it by April 18th? It's kind of a sip to start with. I'm going to be here to discuss two issues. The first problem will be making a public request to the Office for the Protection of Competition. We have also discussed this, that is actually the first point on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and we have agreed across, in some way, through the political spectrum that the incentive should be charged. It was, of course, coming from Mr Rafaj, the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, who told us that it was necessary to charge. So there was a problem with how much to charge this application. We came up with a proposal of CZK 10,000 per request. The fee is, of course, non-refundable. There was a big discussion about the fact that it was a large amount, then different amounts fell, such as 5,000, a thousand crowns or originally came to the UOHS with a hundred crowns, and when I consulted with experts at Charles University, they clearly replied that they would leave 10,000 there. Here I come across the words of the Minister who says that 10,000 is too much, she said it in general, and that it might have been attacked by the Constitutional Court. Here, from the logic of the matter, I want to ask which amount is unconstitutional and which is not. Now I'm not sure whether this is to be determined by the Constitutional Court, which amount, or we're supposed to do it here, because it's about avoiding the UOHS being overwhelmed by the public requests. There may be 30,000 requests, and before it's discussed, the public contract will be suspended and stopped. This is about eliminating it so it doesn't get chained, for example. such requests. That's what this is all about. Of course, the thousand crowns are debatable, but I don't think that covers the administrative costs that arise at the UOHS. That's where the 10,000 really, in my opinion, should be. But I say it's a matter of debate and I wonder which amount is unconstitutional and which is not. That's one thing. Second thing. I care that in Germany, for example. They don't have this instrument. Germany does not have an instrument that the public can in any way demand or in some way ask for any initiation of the review procedure, and it works. It seems to me that we're introducing something here - of course, the directive doesn't quite say it, but we're introducing something that might harm us somewhere in the future. That's why the OOHS is one way to treat it. This concerns the submission of an application. When it comes to another problem, there are problems called. Multi-work, and 30 percent, 50 percent and more. I asked the public administration experts at Charles University again, and they told me that at this point they were doing an empirical study, a scientific study on additions. And just a lot of additions can be one of the signs of corruption, I'm told. Of course, it is true here that the supplier cannot unilaterally dictate anything and that the contracting authority needs cooperation. The Public Procurement Act limits the possibility of amending the contract, see Section 82 para. 7 Act on Public Procurement and Multi-Working. But there is a possibility of a certain corruption case where the contracting entity agrees with the supplier and issues a low price and then part of the payments will be made through closed additions. There is no empirical study at our Czech level, but an empirical study exists in Slovakia, I have it available, of course, but I will not burden you with it here. Someone has already mentioned that it is quite a short time to discuss such an important law, because it is to be an anti-corruption law, one of them that should have preceded the register of contracts, a law on the decision-making of public contracts, but I fear that if we drive it so quickly, there will be a certain legislative piece of shit that we will have to amend many times in the future. For example, it happens to us with the service law, as it turned out. And I'm worried we're gonna get to a dead end with this law, if we're really pushing it really fast. I wonder whether this is really going to be discussed in a speedy procedure, and even when I look at the amendments that are going to be very many there, I do not envy the role of the rapporteur, who will then be very difficult to learn about the amendments and to conduct us here at the third reading by voting. But in that case, once again, following consultations at Charles University, I have prepared one amendment, and I have, of course, already submitted it to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, but it was already after the conclusion of the committee's discussion. The amendment is that in Section 6 of the Principles of Public Procurement I propose to be supplemented, e.g. In particular, it shall take effect the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later stage of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. 1 when Section 6 Principles for the award of public contracts will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The contracting authority must respect the principles of transparency and proportionality, economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the course of the procedure under this law. And the reason is: for economically rational resource management it is not enough to follow only formal, i.e. procedural principles, but it is also necessary to follow economic principles in public procurement. Of course, the Ministry gave me a negative opinion that it also occurs in another law on public finance control, whether I am wrong or financial control, that it would be a certain duplication, but I do not find that much duplication. So it would be good before the new law on internal control of public finances is discussed here, we can also have it written in the Public Procurement Act. I thank you for your attention and that would be all from me at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u17	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I'll read the apology. The Minister of Defence apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for health reasons. Mr Fiedler apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Horáček apologizes between 18:45 and 21:00 for reasons of work. And Mr Gabal apologizes between 15 and 16.30. So many apologies. I have two factual points here. After them, with priority rights, the Minister will speak. First Mr Adamec, then Mr Okleštěk and then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, once again. I'd respond to those charges, for stimuli. Yes, it must be said that Mr Rafaj came up with this as a request, I feel on our economic committee, however, only when the civic revival association began to rattle there. We, who pointed out that the problem here has been for years, that it's being used for political struggles, and not only political but also business struggles on the UOHS, he didn't want to hear about it. As far as the level of the fee is concerned, I think the Ministry has to deal with this, which cannot be dealt with by an amendment. Because another case is when a natural person who, by the way, has the right to do so, because it is the management of public funds, and something else is when a legal person is asked. I think this is a really sensitive matter, and here it needs to be treated very with reason. But I'm definitely saying that fees would be appropriate. One more reminder. There's been a "booked stock" drop. I want to say something about it, too, because when we approved this law that companies that want to make public money must have book shares, so I pointed out that book shares are like a central register, but the difference is that the stock company pays a pretty decent amount of money for the book-booked stock, not only for the management in the register, but not only for once signing up to report it there, but every year it's worth a lot of money. The money's even going abroad. The Czech Republic or owners from the Czech Republic do not manage it at all. And now we have another exception that has passed here once before, and it's accidentally coming back here. At the time, this did not appear in the law in writing as regards agricultural holdings. I think it would really be worth considering whether common sense should prevail, whether the stock in the name is simply not sufficient what we want from the stock companies if we want to know their ownership structure. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u19	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u20	Good afternoon to all your colleagues. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those who got together and proposed an amendment in relation to a fee of CZK 10,000. I consider this to be the right solution, I consider this step to be appropriate from the point of view of the amount, because it is the amount that will force the complainant to consider whether or not to give the initiative at all, whether it is relevant to them. I think it has a regulatory role, and it will not be overloaded by the UOHS by just meaningless submissions in hundreds, if not thousands. For this reason, I am still behind this amendment, and I firmly believe that it will pass in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u21	Thank you, too. Now, with priority rights, the Minister wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will, for the time being, respond to everything that has been said now. I would like to begin by saying that I have personally communicated with many of you, with my colleagues, often you have asked my employees to explain a lot of things to you, we have dealt with really enormous details, we have explained to you how we have progressed, and so on. The question that came up here, why this new law started late, I will answer you: I do not know, I was not a minister. I don't know, but it was you who approved the amendment to the Public Procurement Act here, whose purpose and significant impact was only that it is not excluded and does not have to cancel the selection procedure when there is one contracting authority. The Senate gave us the novel back, so we got two more months with more jobs increasing from 20 to 30 percent. I joined the Ministry, and right after the start, the new law began to work. This law arose in eight months and was discussed with all, the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Government, the academic sphere, entrepreneurs, all volumes, of course, also you through the political spectrum. And I must say that the representative of the Communist Party has always sat at all our meetings, so all the information was public, we made all the entries, everything is on our website, or, of course, available. I must say that Mrs Halíková has fallen here, that so many amendments have come. I'm happy for them, and I'm very happy for them. We were expecting thousands. We got less than 200 together. I believe that legislators should participate in the creation of the law, especially when this law is so extremely important, it is a key law and not just for this government. Any one of you would be with the government, so you would say that the Procurement Act is very important to you, because he is an instrument in how public contracts are awarded here and then public funds are distributed. I would like to mention here that this is a law on public procurement. The law is not called "let's fight corruption, let's solve everything in the Czech Republic." He can only help it and help it with a lot of the tools that we have put into the law. I myself, and I have said this at first reading and at all the committees and at the five-hour meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in Vsetín, where I have also commended Mrs Halíková and the entire committee for their approach in Vsetín, so I am a little surprised by what I hear here today, but it does not matter, and I thought that everything was communicated from our side, and we have actually communicated all the details that were relevant. I have to say that for the information that this law is inconspicuous, long, it has more paragraphs - maybe we should have just submitted a translation of three European directives, but then it wouldn't have a hundred more paragraphs, then maybe we would have a law here that would have 800 paragraphs. This law has one third more paragraphs. However, this law is 20 per cent simpler and shorter in volume. It is necessary to compare everything and not just say that the law has more paragraphs. He does. And we think it's the right thing to do. What ministry basically had to transpose European legislation that was incorporated through more than one European directive? I don't remember. We had three guidelines. One about public procurement and two about review and supervision - the error for which the UOHS is responsible. I would like to say that I hear some criticism here about the length of the law and all that. If I had a law here that would have two A4s, I'd be criticized for giving two A4. When we gave a law that we believe really corresponds to everything where we lay intensely in it basically for the whole last year, it's also wrong. But that's okay, it's for debate. I would like to respond to Mr Plíšek's words. I mean, in no way did I say that your amendment was correct. It's not right. It is against the judicature, and I personally am currently in office as Minister for Regional Development, and as one who will be here at the third reading to convey his views, as the petitioner believes should be put to the vote, I will not support this. Basically, this restriction of ownership is not just about the media, as it was in Greece, but about all companies. As far as Mrs Marková is concerned about the disabled. It is not that the Ministry of Regional Development does not want to support companies that employ disabled people. Personally, I fully support these people working on contracts that the state is entering, but this should not happen that these companies are selling activities that have won and have a preferential offer of 15 percent, to someone else, and they will subsequently do so and do not employ disabled persons. And there's no way to control that. I would like to mention here that we are putting social criteria into the new law. It's much better, it's easier than automatically putting in a criterion of favoring companies that employ more than a certain percentage of disabled people. The contracting authority will be able to identify a contract where it will want the contract to be processed by a protected workshop or a company that actually employs disabled persons. I think even the impact will be much bigger than it is now. [[15.50 hours]] As regards Mr Adamec's amendments. Here I have to say that they are very new, we have them from today, but here I have to say, as regards the first one concerning Section 6 - 50,000 crowns. Here I have to say that I think the new law is much simpler than the existing one. If data were transferred from the contracting authority's profile to the bulletin, it is technical and legal nonsense for us. And here I must say very frankly that if this amendment goes through, we will all be in an unsolvable situation. We will never be able to meet this requirement technically. I can express myself more in detail. As regards the possibility of using electronic input tools, there is already a choice now, because the law does not prescribe how to use and what to use. But here I would like to say that our government, the government of the Czech Republic, approved the Strategy of Electronisation of Public Procurement two weeks ago. The strategy says that during 2018, all public procurement will be transferred to the National Electronic Procurement Instrument. I would also like to respond to Mr Klán. It's too bad we didn't explain it in Vsetín because there was a much bigger space. However, I will respond here to the plenary. We are no more papal than the Pope. Definitely not the Ministry of Regional Development. And that's what the National Coordination Authority is all about. I had a Euro Commissioner here yesterday. We signed - eight states, I reached eight ministers, eight states within the twenty-eight, that is a great success - we signed cooperation on preparation after 2020 and other legislative issues. I think it's a big success. I mean, all countries that are part of the European Union and are receiving European subsidies have so-called 2014-2020 programming period. ex-ante compliance. We don't have to like it. You might not like it, too. There's 40 of them. Each consistency has a sub-criterion. Together, it's 174 plus minus. We'll come here with other laws that are ex-ante conformity. And I must say that we are constantly approving non-legislative strategies on the government, which are ex-ante conformity. Our government has as one priority the drawing of European money and I think it is everyone's priority, i.e. And those who aren't in government. And now we've managed to reduce the under-up from 85 to 10, and maybe it'll be even lower. Also a great success. And I think we are also receiving confidence from the European Commission. I'm here to say what we're in danger of. If there is no law, we can expect to receive a letter from the European Commission in about a month to suspend all payments for European subsidies. This may concern both 2007-2013 and 2014-2020. It can happen, there's a risk. And I, as the Minister responsible for the issue of contracts and funds, need to inform you about this. It's a serious risk. And now it's up to you whether you consider it or not. As regards the fee, what amount is non-constitutional and non-constitutional. He probably doesn't know because the motion came from the MP. It is an amendment. And, of course, that amount must also be determined by the Antimonopoly Office to which it relates. Of course, that's where the debates are going to take place. Otherwise, we agree with the principle, but not with 10,000, because we see a real risk there. As far as more work is concerned, we discussed this a lot on the constitutionally legal side, but also on our guarantee committee. There they really pay for the Ministry, we as an MMR, as a petitioner, have submitted 50 percent to the government. The government has also reduced it to 30% to eliminate various corruption environments. However, we have many amendments here now, and I say, and I said this in my opening speech, that the Ministry of Regional Development will support the accumulation of all changes up to 30%, but within these changes may be a change up to 50 percent. And about Finland - they don't draw, but they're facing a lawsuit and a big fine. That's a threat to everyone if they don't make the law. I'd like to say here, here's the word on the legislative bastard. I personally consider the current law on public procurement to be a legislative paskvil. And we all know what's going on. We're trying to keep this law from being the pasquila. There was also a question of when the novel was going to be, or that it might be soon. Yes, I admit it, it will. And I am here to inform you that the European Commission wants to revise one of those three directives, so it is possible that we will come back here in two years, that we need a novel to meet the European Union and implement this. However, the law should be given a chance. We discussed this with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with all the mayors and, of course, their suggestions were incorporated into the law. And, of course, I've heard what you said throughout the year, and we've been trying to accommodate it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u23	Good morning. I thank the Minister. Another duly entered into the merged general debate is Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u24	Nice and pleasant afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable members of the government. Let me also comment in the debate on the new law on public procurement. Perhaps I wouldn't even be performing today if I didn't read the Minister's press release on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development yesterday, where I would like to respond to two paragraphs. The first one's pretty clear. If you know the Minister, I think you'll realize that right away when I read that sentence to you: For the last two months, I've been going through every committee and MP in the Chamber of Deputies and representing all the benefits of the new Public Procurement Act... [[with emphasis on I]] Yes, I'm sure the secretary was on the committee, but she wasn't alone. It must be said that the Deputys also went, other experts came. It was with us, Members of the TOP 09 and Mayors, that was discussed by the Deputy Minister. So I guess it would look better here: for the last two months, we've been going through every committee... [[with emphasis on we]] Madam Secretary, more modesty and respect for your employees, colleagues, would certainly suit you. [[Secretary off the mic: great.]] Yes, it's great. I'm sure it's great. That's what you're missing. The modesty. [[You know me?]] Of course. Excellent. Just look at you. [[Laughs in the hall, especially from the left. The Minister sitting at the rapporteur's table is turning completely to Mr Paver for a while and watching him.]] Now the next paragraph, which is here: The law will significantly reduce the administrative burden, because there will no longer be a need to draw up a protocol for each offer. The contracting authority shall also be able to make available a number of criteria according to which it will be able to decide on the quality of the tenders. It will not always have to compete exclusively at the lowest price offered, as it is now. The Act will also allow for the exclusion of an unreliable supplier who has corrupted or failed to complete the previous contract and, at the same time, rejoins the next tender. The aim is not to write down detailed instructions, but to lay down clear rules. The Ministry of Regional Development is already working on a set of guidance methodologies for contracting entities, which will complement the approved law. The law is more concise and changes are being made systematically to make it clearer. It's heading from general to specific... And those are the things I'd like to respond to. The Minister explained something just a moment ago that the simplification of procurement should be in the Public Procurement Act, but, as she said, the old law has 161 paragraphs. It's thicker, but at the same time the new one has 272 paragraphs. It is true to admit that in the new law is merged so called. concession law, when his European proposal was only in one article and five lines, but unfortunately we, as all Czech officials and other very clever ones, have made one article 30 articles. So even though 161 plus 30 is 191, there's still 272 paragraphs. And you know how it is with those sections. It's very difficult to navigate, because every lawyer interprets it completely differently. The report says we're already working on a methodology. I'd really like us to get to that methodology a little sooner, because that's very important what we're going to do. There was also talk of the secretary working on it for eight months. That's nice, but the law should have been made at least since the government came to power in February 2014, so that was two years ago. And the last Madam Secretary could have been working on it. Unfortunately, the law wasn't well prepared. Today, as the previous speakers said, we're chasing him at the last minute. Also, constant arguments about multi-work, necessary, but constantly questioned the use of the negotiated procedure without publication, will not end again. All costs associated with the agency of authorisation, government information, questioning audits, checks, justifications, fines and penalty of contracts and implementation according to this Rules of Procedure without publication will be unnecessary and it is, as they say, a created folklore of the Czech Republic. So let us not blame everything on the European Union. At the same time, the Public Procurement Act does not meet our expectations of strengthening legal certainty, ensuring the elements of legitimate expectations in the event of control. Madam Secretary here has listed everyone, with all the organizations she's been discussing it with. But I did miss two organizations she wasn't talking about. Maybe she just forgot them. It's the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Supreme Audit Office. [[An unintelligible remark by Minister Noble off the microphone from the rapporteur's desk.]] But what we do have is that it wasn't completely discussed with them in a way that was consistent and simpler. [[16.00 hours]] Regarding the note: The aim is not to write detailed instructions but to make clear the rules. In the text, the contracting authority may not only appear in the definitions, but very often in the description of public procurement, when determining binding parameters of a public contract. One pearl: If appropriate, the contracting authority may... And who shall specify, if appropriate and the contracting authority may? It may explain the methodology, but where is the certainty, as decided by the supervisory authority, control or audit authorities? Let me give you an example. It is said that it will be excellent that the municipality will be able to set the lowest possible bid from the tender price at which companies can submit contracts. Okay. We'll do it, we'll say 80 percent of the budget price, you can't go under. Hey, there's gonna be a policeman or a prosecutor coming in later and he's gonna say, "You've had your doubts, you should have given at least 75 percent." So I'd like to explain that in some way, and not just myself. As far as further uncertainty is concerned, often questioned qualifications. For example, when proving eligibility, the contracting authority may or may not occur repeatedly. What opinions will be drawn up by the law gesturer? How does surveillance, control stand up to the same thing, like I said before? A number of provisions are objectively new, e.g. § 76 The renewal of the participant's eligibility, so-called self-cleaning of the supplier when the supplier takes its own corrective action. Again very unclear future application practice. And we contracting entities are going to be wrong again, because how are we supposed to proceed so that we don't take any wrong steps in the field of public procurement? All this reduces the legal certainty of both the contracting authority and the supplier. This will increase the administrative burden for contracting entities, it will place great demands on the monitoring of progressive case-law. Overall, the unclear law will strengthen the dependence of the contracting authorities, especially the mentioned mayors, for whom it should have been the cultivation of the competition law, and we will be dependent on experts, on the admins of the procurement procedures. The Public Procurement Act also talks about simplification for sublime public contracts, or it was said that it would bring simplification for sublime public contracts. That's great, we welcome that. But simplification is supposed to include Czech publication for sublime public contracts, and no one knows what Czech simple publication will look like yet. So when do the contracting authorities know what the terms are? The Public Procurement Act is the main legal standard for drawing EU funds. That's why we could even bilance in some way. Madam Secretary said it in the past. I'm sure I'm wondering, and we're all gonna be wondering how the period 2007-2013 turned out, knowing that the estimate of the Ministry of Regional Development is that it didn't exceed about 10 billion. Crowns. But is it a real amount? It is already bad enough that we may find out at the end of July, when the Ministry of Regional Development promises this fact, and it can be said to be both higher and lower. Otherwise, I would like to say that there has been a fall in the past and that, thanks to the way the government worked here, a lot of money was spent in 2014 and 2015. Maybe that's true, but I just want to remind you that the projects are being prepared a few times before the money comes. So the mayors, municipalities, cities applied for subsidies in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 and only in 2014, 2015 received money. And it has to do with the fact that we're going to see how we're going to deal with how we're going to draw subsidies in this period because we haven't spent a penny yet. Perhaps I would recommend, and perhaps the Minister will say that the methodology will be very simple and that perhaps there we will find easy answers to the questions: Do you want services up to CZK 2 million? Follow it and all that. You want a $6 million contract? Follow it and all that. I think, I believe it will be, but for now, because we don't know what it's gonna look like, we can't evaluate it yet. But what I can say in conclusion, although I am not in favour of this law being swept off the table, even though it has a number of errors there, I recommend to all contracting entities who are preparing some constructions this year, so that, if possible, they will do all the orders and selection procedures as soon as possible, preferably by the end of March, by mid-April, according to the old law for one simple reason - they know how it works and what rules are there, and before all the rules of the new law are somehow shaken before all methodologies are known etc., it can be the end of the year. So, colleagues, colleagues who are preparing contracts, you'd better make all the contracts by mid-April this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u25	Thank you, Mr Paver. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jan Volný, then with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u26	Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for the floor. I'd like to see my colleague Paver. I was very disappointed in his speech. He had a lot of stuff in there, let's discuss it, but his invectors and references to the secretary are a little bit around the corner. Please, let us be factual and not be so brave. We took a little bit of the liberty here one day, and we got it over our heads, and you were right, I even apologized to my colleague, but you guys do it all the time. So please forgive yourself for this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u27	Thank you. Sorry, Madam Secretary, with a point of fact, Mr Kučera and Mr Pavera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u28	Thank you for the floor. I very much welcome the call for substance from Mr Volný. I believe that the ANO and, in particular, its President will be the one who will listen to these challenges and will start using less emotional and marketing speeches and more substance in his speeches. I think it would be really useful. I welcome the suggestion made by one of the members of the political movement YES, and I believe that the Minister of Finance will be the one who will listen to this and will follow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u29	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u30	Thank you. Just for a little while. I'm responding to Mr. Volný. I don't think I said anything that should offend anyone. I was only talking about modesty and respect. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u31	Thank you, Mr Paver. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u32	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a few things. I would like to mention here that the Office for the Protection of Competition is a co-president of this law. I assume he made it to the Chamber of Deputies and to Mr Paver with the signature of Mr Rafaj. One thing. The SAO is a proper reminder point. Yes, I didn't, because I think these are technical matters, and I think we're dealing with the law here, and not with whom it was discussed, because you can read it. And I would like, through Mr President, to ask Mr Pavera not to insult me, and if he thinks so, let him go to the cafe where my employees are and ask them how I treat them and how we did this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u33	Thank you, Minister. Another duly signed up is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you whether this proposal addresses a problem which could be called positive discrimination against local suppliers. The solution to this problem is a matter of municipalities. They ask if this law remembers it. If you could explain in a few sentences how municipalities might be dealing with this law, once again, positive discrimination against local suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Another duly signed up for the merged general debate is Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank and appreciate both the work of the Ministry for Regional Development and, in particular, the work of the rapporteur and the three committees which had this press in the press. I hope I haven't forgotten that there were really three, that is, constitutionally, economically, and the Public Administration Committee. I think the proposal is a good one, and I give the Minister the truth that the original law on public procurement is a pasculi, and we all know what bad things he did for the atmosphere in the Czech Republic. However, I see a slight flaw in the law. That can happen. In my opinion, the existing definition of the contracting authority under the Public Procurement Act is limited to strategic foreign investors who decide to place an investment in the Czech Republic. According to the proposed text, a legal or natural person who provides a public procurement contract of more than 50 per cent of public funds shall be regarded as a subsidized contracting entity, or where the funds provided for a public procurement contract of more than 200 million. Crowns. According to the directive - I will not read the figures, we all know what the directive is - both conditions must be met at the same time, and therefore the Czech legislation is much stricter than European regulations, which limits the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in attracting investors, for example, compared to the Slovak Republic, which only governs the definition of the subsidised contracting authority by European regulations. Strategic investors' investments are in the order of billions of crowns. If, in some cases, an investment incentive is provided at a level that exceeds 50 per cent of the value of the awarded contract, then, in view of the essential proportion of public funds to finance such a contract, there is a perfectly legitimate legal requirement that such a contract be awarded in a transparent procurement procedure to which any eligible supplier may participate. But the second condition, and that's a simple 200 miles. The koruna of funds provided from public sources, I think, is for no reason limited. Although with the 200 miles. At first glance, the koruna may seem to be a very high amount, so it should be noted that, for example, at the level of the investment, it is 2 billion. It is - and now, please, in quotation marks - only 10 per cent of the investment, and I think this limiting factor will play a role in the investor's decision on the location of the investment, and it is highly likely that the investor will prefer to choose a state where this restriction is not beyond European legislation. In practice, this means that in the case of a strategic investor who receives an investment incentive higher than that limit, the investor is forced to compete with the supplier as if he were a contracting authority. Strategic investors' projects are long-term preparation, with the selection of suppliers limited to long-term certified partners for which the delivery guarantee is timely and in the necessary quality so that the project can be implemented within the set deadlines. A part of the strategic investor's know-how is also shared with these suppliers, which the investor is not logically interested in publishing. It is therefore not desirable to force strategic investors to compete, which is often badly attacked in the Czech Republic. For the above reasons, therefore, I propose to amend the law in the above sense. I would like to conclude by saying that he should have the support of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u37	I thank Mr Chvojka. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I, as a person who has attended not only the five hours of voting and debates in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in Vsetín, but also as a person who has practically experienced the use of almost all the amendments in the past, cannot at least pause for the start of what some of my previous speakers have said here. [[do not pause]] We have a whole new law ahead of us. We have an absolute minimum of time to discuss it. The argument that we could have been invited and taken part in negotiations somewhere in the Ministry and so on is passé in terms of the fact that there is a law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the laws are being discussed here and it is a matter for the petitioners to deal with the situation. But we are obliged to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act and only here will the amendments be decided, what really will be discussed is what the government will ultimately approve, because there are a number of cases here, and it can be demonstrated when, in the commentary proceedings, whether internal or external, whatever or a series of laws, there have been changes that the government has made, and so on. Moreover, we have a law before us, where the Minister herself informed us that there were more than 3,000 comments from individual ministries. And while the Minister says that she is pleased that so many amendments have come, perhaps she is also glad that the Ministry of Regional Development itself has had the chance to bring forward 38 of its own amendments to the negotiations of the Guarantee Committee. But that doesn't indicate that the work is really for the benefit of the cause. What we have called for and where I have tabled a motion for a resolution at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so that we can take at least one month of time, so that we can attend at least one seminar, listen to those involved and concerned by this completely new legal standard, whether it is the Union of Towns and Communities or the business public, it was not the time for that. We had an absolute minimum of time. You may not even have seen it because you're getting it in electronic form, but we literally had a few days to letter it. And that, when you take the fact that there were still a number of other legislative standards from a completely different case, it is simply impossible to discuss such a new law so quickly responsibly, even though we were all trying to be factual at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and we were debating the various amendments and then either agreed or not. But he's too brave to think it's actually all settled. I am therefore deeply convinced that not because the European Union will adopt some new legislation, but for a number of other internal reasons, as regards the practical application of the law, we will see the amendment quite quickly, and we have been able to avoid it through a month of time. Madam Secretary here tells us that the European Union would stop our funds because of two or I do not know how many months late. I am therefore deeply convinced that if we have this law at second reading at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it would not have happened. This has never happened, I do not know a case that would lead to a Member State in Europe because of one of the thousands of legislative standards that it has to adopt, which would already be in the process of adoption, the European Union has stopped drawing on European funds. The law is not easier because it brings a number of new aspects of the assessment of the law. There are indeed many times in that law - and the only one who will be happy about it, or there are two areas that will be happy about it, lawyers, because the word may be almost a spell in that law, or may be, the contracting authority can, and the assessment will then, whether he had or did not, or could or could and so on, be grazing for lawyers. On a number of issues, we have also come across during the meeting of the Public Administration Committee, and I feel that no one has mentioned it yet, and this is the possibility of using those references, etc., although perhaps the main line of our debates was simply an effort to reach the objective, that means that the contracting authority can, in a transparent way, reach the best possible offer, sign the contract and move on, go to its own realization. [[16.20 hours]] The debate on multi-work was quite long. When I told some owners of companies who often compete for public contracts, they said: Well, if 50 per cent of the possibility of doing more work, that's great news for the supplier, because you told us that the price is not decisive, but good relations with the contracting authority are crucial, because then somehow it will always be done and the law will cover it. That is why I was one of those who fought in a fundamental way against more work not going up, because it will become the subject of the competition, whether you want it to or not. If everyone knows it's 20 percent, they'll adjust to 20 percent. When it's 30, it adapts to 30 percent. The effort to toss orders will be the same. Only when the scissors open will they be bigger. The secretary here said that she wanted individual possibilities to expand the contract after the contract and increase the budget that she would support so that it would not be a total of 30 percent. I understood that so that the sum of the work that appears suddenly could be 30 percent, but nothing else. No. And because there are three components that consist of the multi-work, the changes to the project, the whole new circumstances, that's the second part, and then there's another 10, 15% on the service, the secretary might fix me, with the original assumption being that this is going to add up. Madam Secretary here says that he does not agree with the census and that he will fight against it. That's for sure, I'll support this situation. However, it still remains that if the project does not change, there is 30 per cent of the volume of the contract for completely unexpected things. 30 percent, which will be necessary for a ten-million-dollar contract, that everyone within 3 million can do what they want. He's gonna say, we need it, we didn't know - and there's three million in the air. From a hundred million-dollar contract, 30 million crowns in the air. It's like when you give a hook to the fish, and the one you want to pin to the wall is the future contractor, because it's gonna be in a huge clink. I think that it will, I would almost say, be the pursuit of the contracting authority, but with the fact that the contracting entities who today, as a rule, are cities or regions, hope that they will still get some subsidy funds for one or the project, especially from European Union funds, so they will get the funds for the competitive prize or for the competitive project, adequate competition of the price, and no more. And if there is more work, there will be no more European money for that. Moreover, and this is the risk that we have been talking about on the Public Administration Committee, we are getting into these time limits. If you don't do the project, you'll pay back the money until you've made a commitment. And going to the very beginning of this trial is a huge problem for a lot of mayors. So logically they get pressured rather than have to return European money, we expose them to the legislation that they prefer to go to the debate of a multi-work of a completely unexpected nature and so on. And of course, the market for those who are interested in getting a contract will know very well and will learn very quickly. These are things that, in my deep conviction, we should have had a much bigger debate than how much time we had for this, not because of the Members, although it is true that my proposal for us to do this one more month longer or at the next meeting did not go by one vote. According to my deep conviction, nothing crazy would happen. About the property structures we talked about. In principle, it is necessary to admit, and the Minister said here at first reading that this law will be more benevolent with regard to their identification of ownership structures than with regard to Czech companies. Those of you who follow me and pay attention, I'll do it again. To companies that are from abroad, the law will be more benevolent than those who have their headquarters here. This law, this is how you present it. And when we asked at the committee's meeting whether the Czech Republic, by the way, the Ministry of Regional Development did something concrete for us to want this matter for all directly, that means the same for foreign companies and Czech companies, so basically nothing happened, there was little time and could not be dealt with so quickly and so on. We heard the arguments. I think it's also a pretty key thing, even though a few people were calming me down, they said, look, in the third, fourth level, they're not gonna find out who the company belongs to anyway, so in the finals, everybody's gonna figure it out. But whoever wants to do this thing honestly and want to compete honestly will be handicapped. I think it's just one of the problematic points of the whole law. For the amount of fees, the possibility of filing the complaint, the summons, or, as they say, the UOHS, there was a rather serious debate about it, which was not easy, because although we were all convinced that the thousand-coron fee was little in terms of what could cause it in the process, but for a hundred-million-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-dollar contract, the thousand-coron fee does not matter. I don't think the $10,000 fee plays any part in that billion. But the argument of the representatives of the ÚOHS was that the Constitutional Court will certainly not judge this in relation to the size of the contract, but in relation to the ability of every citizen of the Czech Republic to have the right to send such a submission to the ÚOHS eventually. And since our minimum wage is around those or up to CZK 10,000, the fee at that time plays a role in assessing whether or not it would be unconstitutional. That is why it is not easy and, as Mr Adamec said, I would rather expect the Ministry of Regional Development to look for a way to deal with this. Maybe split it up, so let's just not take advantage of this, delaying and the tactics of delaying the unsuccessful ones, which sometimes happens, from the actual and really important chances of returning the order to the beginning. Although, even in this respect, we have actually discovered for a moment that it will be absolutely difficult in practice, because the contracting authority may be competing, sign the contract, and only after months of the IOHS will it come to a conclusion that it was all wrong from the start. These risks, if you imagine that the contract will be running, will run funding and so on, and the IOHS will find that something has been wrong during the tender procedure, this will not only bring unbridled problems to the contracting authorities, but maybe to the suppliers and to all those involved in public procurement, and that will not be the fault of anything other than the state of our legislation. [[16.30 hours]] Debate on the subject of duty, or I will say improving the chances of getting a contract if it leads to employing people with disabilities. Those of you who are members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and have experienced this experience from practice have basically confirmed at the committee's meeting that these institutes are being abused. In short, companies that employ - so-called employees - people with disabilities and always supply the appropriate number that is needed, and it improves parameters and the chance to get a contract. It's becoming a business that misses what the legislator would have wanted, and I think we all would have wanted that. Of course, it doesn't appear in the rewards and in the chance to earn those handicapped people, but in the profits of those companies. That's the problem we've been discussing quite in detail. So my view is that we have other ways of helping people with disabilities than by favouring someone who employs people with disabilities in the selection process. In fact, they only become a kind of tool for someone else to get to the contract, but it often has nothing to do with the quality of the contract. The last thing I want to mention is the competition for the prize. Little sounds like there's no competition for the prize, respectively. Nor does the existing law in force, whether amended or the original law. There is no obligation under the Public Procurement Act to compete for the price. Compete with the price often pushes the administrators of individual grant funds and tells those who receive the funds, municipalities as a rule, municipalities, regions, cities etc. and say - only the cheapest, because everything else is suspicious. So with this law, let's not have any illusions that we're going to completely eliminate what's systemically bothering us that there won't be suppliers or virtually. contracting entities, so that they are not charged with criminal offences in the future, etc., that they prefer to choose the competition at the lowest price, although it is not good for the Czech Republic and its employment, for the economy as such, but they will be forced to do so because other laws, for example. The SAO law, which we have here and which therefore says something about public administration's obligation to deal effectively and effectively with funds, will actually talk very much about how contracting entities will award public contracts and that they will actually get even worse situations than they have been in so far. Therefore, I would appeal to all fund managers, etc., to put the contracting authority's obligation to act at least in accordance with the Public Procurement Act in their terms. Do not give them in advance the parameters of those contracts so that contracting entities are able to use the parameters they believe are correct at the moment and use the legal space that the law on public procurement will give in the future. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry if I was too long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u39	I thank Mr Bendl. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u40	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I too may have entered into a proper debate in some previous discussion of this law, and now I have the opportunity to speak essentially in a different environment, at another time, actually with other motives for speaking. Still, I have another motive that my colleague Bendl mentioned. I also have experience for a long time, for 25 years I have been in municipal politics, and all this time I have been accompanied by public procurement. In the mid-1990s, as city councilman of Budějovice, we invented a kind of mathematical formula that allows us to process individual criteria, their scales together with the price of some formula, which would then be able to generate a point value that would then compare orders according to order. Each year, the South Bohemia Region commissioned construction contracts on the roads of the second, third class and we were able to deal with the law at that time. I think we've even been ahead of time for something because we basically had a system that allows us to use the price offered by a potential supplier as one of the main criteria, if not the most important. Then I followed, outside regional policy, the anti-corruption banging that the previous government had launched, and the law, which was then prepared and which largely paralyzed the possibility to award public contracts to municipalities, regions and caused a number of problems which, many of them, have not yet been resolved. This situation today reminds me of some of the previous experiences I have here. Civil code. In fact, as soon as we arrived in the House, this Garniture, we corrected the Officials Act approved under the enormous pressure of the European Commission. I can't forgive myself for mentioning the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which was also under dramatic pressure from the Ministry of the Environment when we heard all the threats at the time that all grant titles would be stopped unless the EIA Act was approved. We, unlike the current law, actually knew all the threats. When we looked at the law, we knew everything we were in danger, we drew attention to it, we talked about it here in the House, and we proposed amendments that might limit the greatest danger arising from the Act on Impact Assessment. This has not happened, these laws have not been passed, and we are now in a situation where we have almost stopped many large buildings on our territory and now we are waiting for what the Commission will say whether we can negotiate any exceptions or fail. [[Suggestions?]] We just acted under pressure, and that's not good. And here we are acting under pressure. Here in this law, unlike the EIA Act, and also because of its enormous extent, I am not directly called to systematically go through the various provisions and express myself reasonably and correctly, but I am still interested in some things here. So I am, as I say, a practice of local regional policy, and I have to say here that almost 70 per cent of the construction contracts, which are awarded by municipalities or regions, are in the range of approximately CZK 10 to 50 million. And that's what we have here today designed as... from a small-scale public contract, which is limited from above to CZK 6 million in the case of works up to CZK 50 million, which is the lower limit for the award of public contracts in the sublime regime in the case of works. I, of course, am not now and have not been able to submit any relevant amendment during the second reading, but I feel that this range is too wide, too large, the conditions for entry in the subliminal regime are quite free and allow for the possibility of just a certain - as I should call it - corruption potential. Just the possibility of what we fear, what we suspect can happen, of arguing with companies on what price they set, and of course this dimension allows them to do so, and the very vagueness, the softness of these conditions for the sublime regime makes it possible. And also the 30 percent possible multi-work, even that is a thing, and here I agree with my colleague Bendl, is what can bring about quite considerable problems. I'm saying, I'm not suggesting anything, I don't feel called to it. I'm not even a member of the committee, nor of the regional development committee, nor of the guarantee committee, so I didn't dare propose anything here. [[16.40 hours]] Another thing that bothers me and on which also my friends, whether from the communal sphere, or from the sphere of those smaller entities, which, for municipalities or even some municipal organizations established by municipalities, process the award of public contracts and then follow them during their implementation, is that certain not completely clear position of municipalities or contracting entities in case of an extremely low price. An extremely low price is an extremely dangerous thing. It just doesn't generate it when someone - and so it was often done, within, hopefully, the already completed crises were awarded such contracts and often suppliers made offers that were significantly screwed up and didn't actually allow them to generate the supplier, the company, the profit, and thus he basically didn't fulfill his function of doing business for profit. I don't know to what extent today, it seems to me that this is very limited, the contracting authority may be looking for the cause, the reason for submitting the extremely low price, so that it can properly and crediblely reject it. And then there's one more thing I want to mention. Sometimes it happens that parallel functioning public authorities, e.g. Ministers, for their own purposes, somehow regulate the law, or, mostly, strengthen it more and more than it needs to be. I also think that our law, which we have here now, does not address, does not define the obligation of other entities to strictly rely on the diction of the law, but does not in any way sanctify that, for example, some ministry itself sets stricter limits for its own or for the selection procedures of its established organisations. That is what I wanted to comment on. At the end of my speech, I want to say my position from a political point of view. This is a typical law that the government coalition has to deal with and take responsibility for, as perhaps, I hope it has taken responsibility in the case of the EIA Act. I'm hearing a little bit of a claim today that not all the information that came from the translator was true, that the assurance that the retroactivity of the EIA Act would not be here was not confirmed. It's just that the retroactivity is here, and the danger is that we're gonna have to stop the action and make a new EIA is here, too. A new EIA assessment would not be a big problem if we did not give completely endless, unlimited power to environmental activists. They may at any time stop driving under the EIA, at any time they may enter and interrupt. That is why the plaintiffs themselves are so afraid of this, and therefore, of course, every new EIA actually means a complete halt to the construction of the ad infinitum. So I hope that the government coalition will take responsibility for this, and that this will also manifest itself in the vote, and that all Members will then hold up and that they will be able to settle their decisions. So what I'm saying is that for me the support of this law is excluded, I will not vote for it, and I will leave it, as I have already said, to the government coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u41	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly entered into the merged general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to present my amendments to this law, let me make a few small comments on the debate that has already been discussed, if any. the amendments made and the Committees' observations. In this law, which I consider to be one of the most important laws in the Czech Republic, which affects municipal, regional and national policy quite significantly, a huge number of comments were gathered. The Minister rightly considers this to be the main work of his ministry, and I firmly believe that it will succeed in making a law on public procurement such that at least most of the company is adopted as a law of good quality. Of course, it's probably not, but let's say most of the company. I would like to very much warn my colleagues here at the beginning, especially from the government coalition, that they do not succumb to the impression "let's just say it quickly, because we already know in a moment that we're going to be amending it, and then we're going to correct the mistakes that we already know about today." This tendency is quite often used for many of the laws discussed so quickly. Colleagues before me have already mentioned this in various other laws. I would very much not like it to be the fate of this law, because this law has a far-reaching impact on the life of municipalities and cities. I will stop at one idea or philosophy of this law, which I consider to be quite problematic, and no one has dealt with this issue so far. This is the point that remained, the paragraph that remained from the previous law, so-called. Section 6. This is general information on transparency and the form given - so the European Union prescribes for us to make these public contracts as transparent, transparent, transparent and non-discriminatory as possible in this form. That's the thing that, of course, is given as a basis in these laws everywhere, let's say. We cannot withdraw from this idea. However, what becomes a problem and what I want to draw attention to is the newly conceived and conceived philosophy of small-scale contracts, so-called. two million to six million orders. These contracts are, according to the philosophy of this law, flattened - and now I'm going to use the word expression - hand-in-hand. It simply decides whether to use the form of the selection procedure, which form it uses, or not at all, and whether to rely on its experience. It sounds very good and very sweet. Every mayor in the first impression will say, "I'll finally be able to decide, "I'll finally be the one to determine who will implement my contract, what I can buy, I won't have to look back if I'm gonna... And now the question is when does he start thinking? In another law, the level of CZK 5,000 remains a level of crime. The mayor will have to wonder whether he would by any chance disadvantage someone on the market, whether his progress is really transparent, as referred to in Section 6. And here is the problem that the old law on public procurement precisely defined possibilities and movement. If he complied with this law, literally, perhaps slavishly written, then he was worried about quotes because he followed the law and didn't go beyond that law. And the law enforcement authorities that later dealt with it evaluated this exactly as to whether he deliberately violated or didn't give anything. If they don't find anything, they'll turn to the Office of Competition, and he could say yes as far as possible, there's been some kind of breach, there's something, or he'll leave it that way, and he'll say it's okay. And this manual, which the law so far represents for the mayors, can also be used in a small village quite successfully and fulfilled. [[16.50 hours]] With this standard, which we will in good faith make their work easier to approve, I suppose, but we are adding a huge responsibility to them. In my opinion, many mayors have not yet realized that. The vast majority of contracts are up to 2 million or, in turn, up to 6 million that take place in municipalities. That's the overwhelming majority. There are quite few large according to the investment budgets of the municipalities. I'm not talking about big cities right now, but let's just say smaller cities. And I don't think the mayors are very aware of that responsibility yet. We can talk about some methodological guidelines, some tools that we will offer them and give them. But is that enough? Here I ask - and this question, of course, is heading for the future, but I suppose this point will pass, is crucial, I suppose, from the context of the proposal prepared by the Minister. How far will its office be prepared to react within the framework of the methodology and to help these mayors to ensure that what they want is no longer non-discriminatory? I stress, read Section 6 - which remained actually the same from the previous law, only minor dictions have changed, but the meaning of Section 6 is the same - and you will find that it is quite difficult to move in a non-discriminatory environment with a number of products on the market. This is one of the things I accuse this law of actually releasing this space too much. And from the assessment of people who have been living their entire professional life since 1989 in municipal politics, they have had a lot, a lot of hard stories, often even smiling, and I say that those laws that have limited or regulated competition have been moving in sinusoids. Since the excessive release in the 1990s, which people criticized quite rightly, that enabled the password of the thieving, calling for the modification of these laws to be impossible, the law has turned into its second half of the sinusoids, when it has hardened a lot and actually almost stopped the possibilities of certain procedures that would have dealt with the problems of the municipalities, until the current version, which, in my opinion, returns the half of the sinusoids to the other side again. It is one of the problems that the petitioner did not deal with in my opinion, and it is the criticism that it is a lot of the law of corruption, at least in those contracts of two and six million crowns. This is what I would like to hear and explain to the Minister how he wants to fight this here, so that the small corruption, the attention corruption in small towns, does not give back to people's argument that nothing has changed and that it is just stealing again. I will now return to the ideas contained in the resolutions of the various committees, and I want to raise a few points. By order of the Constitutional Committee in paragraph 4, it is § 222 para. the words "and the need for which the contracting authority acting with due diligence could not anticipate' shall be deleted. This, when it falls out of this, is again a question of transparency and how argumentatively the contracting authority will be able to argue with any authorities investigating whether or not § 6 has been infringed. And ignorance doesn't justify committing a crime. That's what I want to point out. In the following point, paragraph 5, the same resolution, again concerns § 222 para. 6, the words "with additional works, additional services or additional supplies resulting from this amendment shall be deleted in order to carry out the original works or to provide the original services or supplies" shall be deleted. This whole friendly parameter removing this problem, and it has to do with the multi-work that has been discussed so many times here, and the model proposed by the secretary here is not so bad, the sum of these issues, but this point, if passed, is, in my opinion, a recording of the lobby designers. I say in the long run that the problem of public procurement in the Czech Republic is not the actual implementation of the contract, but also the preparation. And it starts with quality projects. Even this law failed to solve this problem. Only if this amendment passes will it cease to be taken into account from this point of view to have the projects in order. He just says, well, we couldn't predict it, these multi-workers are necessary, just the designer was wrong, well, it happens. So I would like to draw attention to this when discussing these changes and voting in the future, that I consider this to be a pretty big mistake. There has already been a discussion, and it has also been held by the media, and this is in Section 36 in the fourth sentence it is said that it should be removed from the contracting authority... followed by words with the exception of a lawyer or tax advisor. It's already been said here. This amendment, although perhaps surprising, perhaps illogical, in my view, does not have much justification for why the appellant put this paragraph there. This amendment, paradoxically, appeared in two committees, in two versions. In one version extended, where another paragraph followed this point, which logically followed and was an explanation of why it proposed to delete it at that first point. Unfortunately, in the resolution of the guarantee committee, the second point has already fallen out and there is only the first one - these two entities will be eliminated. So here we should decide whether we really want to allow the anonymity of these two professions, or whether we really want to maintain transparency. Here, I'll be curious about the recommendation of the Minister's vote on how he'll deal with this here. So I recommend either to put an amendment in the enlarged form of those two points, it already has logic, or not to put it there at all. I still want to pause over a little thing that has attracted me more from practical points of view. There is a proposal in Section 63: the contracting authority may also apply the negotiated procedure without publication if the contract can only be met by a particular supplier because... Of course, we know such contracts. They're specialized firms, specialized practices, scientific inventions and such. However, point (a) states: the subject of performance of a public contract is a unique work of art or performance. Here, in my opinion, we're going to run into a little bit of the problem of definition of uniqueness and definition of performance. I'd rather be inclined to have the Ministry ask any groups, if any. organizations that represent artists, or, I don't know, architects, sculptors and similar matters that start to appear in public procurement quite often, and quite rightly there is pressure from the art community, let them think, in large investments, that there should be a work of art. I agree with that. The question now is whether the application of this paragraph will favour only some artists compared to a selection procedure by an aesthetic committee or not, someone who can judge how unique the work is and how it can be used in practice. So I would also like to draw attention to this point, which is included here and may be quite problematic in relation to various interest and professional groups and chambers. Allow me one more point before I approach my amendments. There is a proposal in Section 96 para. 5 which reads: The contracting authority shall continue until it decides whether the solutions submitted are appropriate. [[unintelligible]] The procurement procedure participant whose solution is not appropriate shall be excluded from the procurement procedure. That's a logical thing to do. I would like to recommend here to the plaintiff that this be always justified, that is - whose solution is not appropriate, after the justification of the procurement procedure. [[17,00 hours]] This is how it opens up quite a significant space for this amendment to various interpretations, and as I know from my own practice, the interpretations of law firms and other law firms providing services to municipalities in this area are very strict and consistent knowledge of the law and its interpretations are very often co-ordinated against any contract being awarded to someone specific and not in a general competition. As for my amendments, which I have included in the system and which I will later apply to, I dare say the idea of why I have tabled these proposals. Paradoxically, they do not concern the very form of procedure, and what I have said so far is merely comments from the practice to which, my fellow Members, you may or may not take into account, of course, Madam Secretary, will depend on its consideration. Then I'll just vote. As far as my proposals are concerned, this concerns a specific matter, namely the issue of the supervision of public procurement, the so-called Public Competition Authority. The first amendment concerns the addition of paragraph 1. 4 in Section 248, where the Office carries out checks on over-the-counter public contracts financed entirely or partly by European Union funds prior to the opening of the procurement procedure. I'm not gonna read this whole paragraph to you, I appreciate your time. It's in full form in the system. Why do I suggest this? Many times on the premises of this House by ministries have been accepted and accentuated by problems which cause the award of over-limit contracts to different ministries. The Minister of Transport could talk a long time about how the effort to prepare a good public competition is often ruined by ignorance, often by various other objective or subjective problems in the preparation of the competition. My proposal will allow ministries to use the services of this body in specific cases concerning European subsidies, which is perhaps the most funded in this Republic, in order to assess in advance whether any competition corresponds to or does not comply with the standards of the law and standards of the European Union. This point, if it were accepted, would, in my view, make it easier for all contracting entities to perform over-the-counter public contracts that, in advance, this office would have been involved in telling them whether or not there are any points in this competition proposal that could justify the later reduction of the subsidy from the European Union and so on. So I would recommend your attention to my amendment in Section 248 para. 4. The next point, which may be problematic, is the point, which is in Section 251 in paragraph 2. This text shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal Although it sounds short, it is very important in my opinion: the Office is bound by the proposal. It's a formulation that I don't think this office is gonna like very much. I myself am curious because I have been asked and I am trying to consult the practical implications of the implementation of this when the office is bound by its submission. In other words, there should not be any practice that many mayors know when a rejected contestant who has not won complains about the UOHS, filed a submission. We are all saying yes, we are going to make the submission more expensive so that these potential applicants or complainants can be deterred. But the practice of this office is that when this applicant puts down dozens of points - or dozens, the points that bother him in the competition and in the first one this submission leads to the wrong goal, i.e. is not "under this law', so the Office will reject this submission. As denied... that for formal reasons it's denied, he's returning bail. That means whoever filed it is off the hook, gets the money back, is satisfied. But paradoxically, the Bureau doesn't stop investigating the matter. He's not tied here by returning it and refusing it, but he's still working on it. That means he can re-submit the contest and re-block and move this solution on and on. Many mayors will tell me for the truth that this happens quite often in practice. In other words, companies have found a loophole in the law to get their money back when they know very well that they may not be right or rely on the delay to extend. But they still get the money back. So it is a point, I myself wonder after consultations with this office and with experts who deal with it, how the realization will turn out in practice. But in my opinion, it is at least worth looking into the work of this office and its effectiveness in this matter and in these matters. The next point I propose, but I will not discuss in detail again, is the 60-day deadline for the decision. Often, mayors have problems, cases that are, and complaints are parked in this office. They'll stay there for a while and block the entire process of the competition. It is often better to cancel the competition. And that may also be the goal of the complainant that he wants to be cancelled and be able to get back into the game, as they say. The 60 days I'm suggesting here, let's say, is a certain museum, a ceiling, a limit to which this office should go. And when he doesn't, it's considered his decision. It's for consideration. On a practical point, I don't know how far it's going to impact. I am warned from one side that there will be problems within the context of complex cases where expert opinions must be given, etc. On the other hand, I wonder why this office should give expert opinions. It's a matter of judgment after he's researching the truth. He should decide whether the competition is legal or not. And not with expert reports to verify whether the material is A or B or not. In my opinion, it does not belong to the role of this office. But again, it is a debate, and I assume that we will reach a goal in the discussion with the relevant experts. The next thing I'm suggesting, and that's the last thing I'm gonna do, I promise I won't talk any more. The Office shall inform the parties of the supporting documents of the decision before the decision is taken. The Office shall set a reasonable time limit for the parties to submit observations on the supporting documents of the decision. This period shall not be less than five working days. So far, the proposal is that the Authority will set a time limit at its discretion. However, they must not be shorter than five working days. The change comes from a reasonable period of time. This should be an argument for the inability to park so-called. That thing. She's too complicated, so we're gonna park her, she's gonna somehow, like they say, avoid it. But then, of course, the Authority faces the problem of justifying the adequacy of this deadline, which is set. So this one word could solve another group of problems that we encounter in practice, and in my opinion it is a solution rather than some complication of this law. Thank you for your attention. I will sign up for these amendments in the debate and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u43	I thank Mr Luzar. Mr Jiří Koubek is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Excuse me, I'd like to respond to the Secretary's speech. I was listening very carefully, but I waited for the tape screen to see if the secretary answered the question after all. Here, in the introduction from the mouth of the President of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Halíková, it was said that the Ministry itself, through Members, made 38 amendments to this proposal in the second reading. I read the tape again. You have not responded to this objection, the plea, the question, Madam Secretary, has not been answered. You merely said that you were expecting thousands of comments and that you were satisfied that only 200 amendments had arrived. Of that, 40, each fifth is yours. So I'd like to ask you what your satisfaction means, and if you could respond to that why. Why 38 amendments have come from you in the course of the House negotiations and why it has not been incorporated before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u45	I thank Mr Koubek. Another duly signed up for the general merged debate is Mr Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I want to respond to today's criticism of that part of the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of 13 January this year on transparency of purchases on commodity exchanges. I don't understand her very well. Most of you who have experience with municipal policy know the exception to the Public Procurement Act, which allows you to buy mainly energy in commodity exchanges. This possibility is used by thousands of municipalities and other contracting authorities. And it's perfectly okay because this exception has less administration. However, it is certainly not that municipalities as customers, the state or the public do not have and cannot have precise information about how much purchases on commodity exchanges actually cost. So they do not have an accurate overview of what public funds are being spent on. I am not talking about energy prices right now, but about a number of different fees that are normally paid for stock exchanges and which in some cases are, in other cases, not added to the final price of energy purchased on the stock exchange. This irregularity was brought to the attention of some media last year, such as: Reporters of CT. I don't think such a practice is right. In the commentary procedure of the Public Procurement Act, the Ministry of the Interior proposed to solve this problem by introducing regulation of the Czech National Bank. The proposal was not accepted, so I tried to propose a simpler solution. All charges will be published on the Internet and all fees will be paid only to commodity exchanges, not to some companies that stand in the background. I think it's got a head and a heel. And with all due respect to colleagues who claim that this is against the law, I must say that this is irrelevant. The charges are supposed to be public so everyone can compare them. I simply want nothing more than the stock exchange fees to be publicly known and transparent and to be paid directly to the stock exchange. And if the stock market pays anybody else then, I don't care. There's nothing illegal about that. To be exemplary, I will set an example of non-discriminatory charges. The contracting authority must hire contractors to carry out the purchase of electricity or gas on the community exchange. The negotiators are a limited number, they are external companies and do not have a transparent and available price list on the Internet. The negotiator will process the business case in cooperation with the client, putting together the necessary information for the execution of the stock exchange trade. The negotiator registers the client in the stock exchange registration centre and also represents the client in trading and informs him of the results. The auction is carried out via an electronic system and after the auction the list is issued by the stock exchange. The client shall pay the stock exchange fees published and the fees of the negotiator not published. Example two is a transparent fee. The contracting authority shall sign a simple contract with the stock exchange and complete a standardised questionnaire which shall transmit the stock exchange either notarically verified or via a data box. The exchange shall check all data and, if necessary, request a supplement and, if all is completed, prepare an electronic auction. The preparation is handled by the negotiator - the employee or contractual partner of the stock exchange, who oversees the pairing of supply with demand. The auction is carried out via an electronic system and after the auction the list is issued by the stock exchange. The client only pays stock exchange fees, no fees for the agreement partner the client no longer pays. Therefore, the main differences between those trading methods. In the first, non-discriminatory case, the exchange forces clients to hire contractors to fill in the input data necessary for the execution of the transaction, the fees for the contracter's services are set at different levels, and the fees for the agreementkeepers are often several times higher than the exchange fees. The client can choose only from several entities that are connected to each other. In the second, transparent case, the client has a direct relationship with the stock exchange, the negotiator is paid by the exchange and oversees the most advantageous pairing of demand and supply. In the first, non-discriminatory case, the contracting authority must rely on the negotiator to properly fill in all the requirements of the transaction and to provide the suppliers with the correct information. In the second, transparent case, the contracting authority may choose any advisor at its own discretion, of course I consider this to be effective, and there is guaranteed a flawless electronic transmission of all the parameters of the supply from the client to potential suppliers in order to properly evaluate the supply. In conclusion, I want to convince you that any amendment to transparent trading on commodity exchanges that will be heard here deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u47	Thank you, Mr Petrů. Another duly entered into the merged general debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, one more point of fact, Mr. Jiří Štětina. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I will only respond very briefly to the contribution made by my colleague Petr. I am very pleased that this law is on the agenda, that it seems to be approved. My main motivation is to finally bring order into all trade. We all know that if we want to spend money in some way, we will simply make a negotiated procedure without publication. And I believe that trading on stock exchanges is just one of the ways. That is what the colleague said very precisely. I admit that I have to agree with what he said that even this trade must be completely fair and transparent, it should be public, it must be on the Internet, and if we have several of these exchanges, then it is necessary that the price list should be published and it is not possible for one exchange to trade significantly cheaper and the other significantly expensive. I do not suspect, because I think that stock exchanges are done relatively fairly and honestly, but nevertheless the transparency as it was in this contribution is important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u49	I thank Mr Štětin for his point of view. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, duly registered, is now announced. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u50	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have a few comments on the law. I believe that there is room for circumnavigation of the Public Procurement Act by way of too wide cooperation horizontal or vertical. And the space is wider than would be appropriate. I think it might have an impact on some of the contracts that are awarded in the health sector or in transport constructions, etc. The proposal defines the control of persons both vertical and horizontal through the percentage expression, linked however to factors that are not clearly given. Such a definition is misleading. Depending on the volume of turnover of the entity in question, the 20% share of its turnover may be huge and may not mean that such an entity does not participate in competition. For entities with a turnover of hundreds of millions of crowns, which may be, for example, regional road management, the volume of contracts for other entities can effectively enable the market for the services in question to be dominated by the locality. Furthermore, I believe that the text of the law should be accompanied by an amendment to the provisions on the responsibility of the contracting authority for the functioning of the procurement documents. The procurement documentation should be made up in such a way that it is as precise and as clear as possible and as far as possible it is not necessary to apply the institute of additional information at all. In addition, the contracting authority is often represented and the procurement documents are made up of a third party. It is all the more difficult to track down the responsible person, whom it may be possible to punish for the incorrectness of the procurement documents. The clarity and accuracy of this document is absolutely essential for candidates for a contract and should therefore be up to the contracting authority to ensure and answer for it. Furthermore, there is a comment concerning an extremely low bidding price. This problem is already showing up today. I can also confirm from personal practice that the extraordinarily low bid price is very variable and incomprehensible. The bill, House press 637, does not change this situation, unfortunately. [[17.20 hours]] Another comment concerns the question of legal services and their regulation, which the law disperses, or competition or non-competitiveness for legal services. Then also questions of general business conditions. The current bill merely envisages repealing the current decree No. 231/2012 Coll., laying down the commercial conditions for public works contracts. While the current Act No. 137/2006 Sb. I didn't find them in the House press. I believe that they should be defined in some way. As far as legal services are concerned, I believe that the exception to legal services, that they no longer need to compete, threatens to be abused by suppliers and prices for legal services will be set by disproportionately provided services. The law should at least make an exception so as not to abuse it. Thus, the exemption should not be designed against the existing adjustment in such a way that it is completely excluded from the criterion of economic advantage and suitability, i.e. from the lowest price criterion. In terms of these comments, I have also prepared the amendments that I will make in a detailed debate and will sign up to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u51	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, good evening. In studying the law I was interested in one of many things, namely the possibility of canceling a public contract, when it is proposed that the contracting authority may cancel the procurement procedure if it does not receive the subsidy. I think it's okay, but the contracting authority should point it out in advance that this is what it intends to do. I think that suppliers have the right to be in the legitimate expectation that if they succeed in the contract, they will submit the best bid that the contract will be awarded, and if the contracting authority wants to exercise the right to cancel the contract on the ground that it does not have the money to do so, it should draw attention to this in advance. On this issue, I would like to put forward amendments. The debate that has been here so far. The Minister pointed out that this law on public procurement is not an anti-corruption law. I believe that this law must have anti-corruption elements because it is about the management of public funds. If this is about managing private funds, let everyone make the rules they want. Pages of a very discussed limit of 20, 30 or 50 % for multi-work, I am in favour of making the limit in the original version 30 %. Suppliers often sign when concluding a contract that they are aware that their offer contains everything and that they are able to realize the offer and therefore should keep more work in check, otherwise the law would not then be competitive, but would only be a front for the fact that they can do what the law permits. I believe I saw contracts that had more jobs up to a limit of 20, 30 per cent set just because the limit was set. [[unintelligible]] And the parties to sublime contracts, as my colleague Luzar spoke about it a moment ago, I think it is again a space for municipalities, cities and other contracting entities to set their own rules for the law to be competitive, because this law is too open in sublime contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u53	I thank Mr Kudel. Mr Michal Kučera is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u54	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a slightly simpler role to play as the last speaker in the general debate that many have already been said, so I will not really speak for long. I will mention only some things that I think should be underlined by Members of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Of course, I am not the only one who clearly appreciates and perceives that there is a need for change especially in the new Procurement Act. We know that the existing law has often paralyzed public contracts, especially in municipalities, from our own experience. I don't have to stress that much anymore. We've been through this on our own, or these cases have been mentioned here many times. I would also like to appreciate the energy with which Minister Šlechtová embarked on the preparation of the new law and tried to address this problem. However, I am not only expected to be commended, so as many of my previous speakers here, I would like to point out the ambiguity of the law. Unfortunately, it is there, and this, of course, is not the fault of the Minister, the inexperience with the exercise of self-government. I am concerned that no one who has experience in the exercise of self-government has been involved in the preparation of this law, and if so, he did not work for self-government. I wondered if this law could be amended by amendments. Today we are at second reading and I really had a whole series of topics prepared, but I am afraid that we will not improve this law with amendments. I am a little concerned that this law, if passed in this form, will end up like many other laws from the ministerial workshop for the YES movement, which means early amendment. Here I mentioned it, and my previous speakers mentioned it, that the basic problem is really ambiguous, that is, the frequency of the word "may" appearing there. The fact that the contracting authority may exclude from participation in the procurement procedure a tenderer who has committed serious or permanent misconduct over the last three years is certainly correct. That, of course, is correct. The fact that the contracting authority can set a minimum price for the contract is also certainly correct. We know for ourselves, and at least I will try to document it, it is such a beautiful example of how in public procurement, which was announced by the municipalities, companies that, for various reasons, needed one or more orders, prices to shoot and give prices that were really unrealistic. And the municipalities really had very few options, the reasons were different, I don't want to name them here how to order a company with a low price, which was unrealistic, to exclude them from this tender. The possibilities were, I'm not saying that they didn't, but the municipalities didn't always know how to use it. Now we're going to the other extreme, and we're going to the one that we're saying it can. How will this be done in practice? In practice, we will reconstruct the cultural house in the village. We know that this middle level of reconstruction is 20 miles. Crowns. We know this because companies in the neighborhood, which may have done something similar for the city, report that this is about the price range. Then we know that there will be companies that somehow shoot down the price, which means we, as the city council, set a minimum price, and that's 20 miles. Crowns. [[17.30 hours]] I think that's the right idea. We're more or less going to say that we want the price, which is real, which is based on some project, that we don't want to talk to those companies that are gonna shoot her down, of course we're worried that there's going to be some bad quality, non-compliance with the terms and conditions, etc. I think that's all right. Until the moment the city council may vote on this exemption. I really want to see it today - I can imagine it better in the 1990s, but nowadays I want to see one single city representative who raises his hand for a minimum price of 20 miles. Crowns. If there's one, I'm guessing he's got a criminal report on his neck in two or three days. I don't think I'm far from the truth. I really see the good intention, the right idea that was here by the Ministry to address this issue. However, I am of the impression that this has not been dealt with in the right way. This means that the freedom given to some extent to municipal and municipal councils is not very good at the moment. I will return to the fact that I have been discussing whether the law can be amended by the very amendments or, where appropriate, by the activities of the Members' parties. I don't think that's possible. The law is built this way conceptually, it has this idea, it logically follows itself. That is why I think that the amendments cannot improve it. Of course, they can change some of the parameters of this law, but they can't change the main structure. That is why I think that this approach on my part, and I think that even by my colleagues, will be quite lukewarm to approve this law. Although we know that the new law is clearly necessary, that it needs to be approved, that the current law really paralyzes public procurement, and even though I appreciate the efforts made and the efforts made by Minister Šlechtová to prepare this law, however, the reasons I have made here say that amendments may not be, and the design of this law is not good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u55	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. This was the last written entry into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting in the general debate. If not, the final words after the merged general debate on both points. Madam Secretary. Please, Minister Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - I apologise to the honourable Member, but I still want to comment on what has fallen here, because there has been a lot going on. [[to Mrs. Cernochova, who was headed for the microphone]] It's a matter of fact, so there are some things that I might even like to explain. As regards Mr Kučera's last contribution, inexperience with self-government. Here I must say that the law really arose in cooperation with the self-government, the Union of Towns and Municipalities. And they weren't just representatives of the union. The mayors were really there, putting it together with us. We met once every two weeks. The law had a lot of speed, but an intense involvement of everyone. Colleagues who participated in the law worked in self-government for many years from the clerk to the internal office, etc. We have given municipalities the opportunity to participate in this law. They were involved. We discussed the law. Now I have to say really, my colleagues and I have traveled all the regions of the Czech Republic where we presented the law, we have received various suggestions. Of course, as I said in my opening words, there will be mistrust and, of course, there will be fear. It's a new law. It's not the 22nd amendment to the old law that we've all known here for maybe ten years. This is just a new law. And even after the debate we're having here today, maybe I won't be a minister anymore, but maybe I'll pass on the experience that the next law should only be written as a translation of European directives, and then we'll see the debate in the House. We were trying to give it a shot. We tried to give it some meaning, so that it would be particularly good for self-government. We're not kidding each other, but mayors, virtually. self-government is the biggest error in drawing European subsidies, but it is not their fault. It's the award's fault, it's the contract's fault. So we really want to fix this. As regards Mr Kudela's comment on the possibility of cancellation if no subsidy is received. So, basically, there's no need to point that out in advance, because it's in the law, and the lack of money is generally a reason to cancel the entire contract. As regards Mr Hovorka, who spoke of horizontal and vertical cooperation. Here I have to say, it is basically all from the European directive. It's a directive. And 80 percent of what we have in our law cannot be changed because it is based on the European directive. The procurement documents under the new law must state which third party participated in it. And, of course, there is a case currently under way where the current supplier of the matter is involved in the processing of the contract. This law will allow this, but the third person will have to report. And it's also possible he won't be able to sign up for the contract anymore. As far as extremely low prices are concerned, we allow us to use the formula or fixed price as a limit. As far as the Order on Terms and Conditions is concerned, this decree is replaced by a decree on proportionality. And it's also an agreement with the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs. Of course, this law has been discussed with new partners. As regards the decision to limit the exemption to lawyers, I must say here that this is a political decision and we are adopting this text from the European directive. And if we recall, last February, March, I was standing here, and there was an amendment, so that lawyers and lawyers would not have to file under the law, but on the basis of an exception from the Public Procurement Act. As far as Mr Petr is concerned about commodity exchanges, I would also like to mention here that, given the fact that she was also walking on a rather short notice by the Gestor of the Commodity Exchange Act, which is the MIT, and also the amendments are contradictory, we will hold the position of the Gestor of this Act, i.e. Minister of Industry and Trade. And we're in written communication together. Of course, I'll have a really final version in the next few days. As regards Mr Koubek, who asked why we ourselves initiated the amendments. I have to say, we didn't have to initiate them, the law would have worked without them. We wanted to make it even better when the space was there, and for example, we found that some of the things that were agreed by the Government's Legislative Council didn't get into the law before it came to you, it was already coming from the Ministry of Regional Development. So we brought back the amendments. There were some technical errors, formal errors, for which yes, the Ministry of Regional Development can. However, it did not affect the textation and meaning of the entire law. So I really have to say here that if we didn't initiate this law as a changer, then absolutely nothing happened to the law. I'm glad we did it because it's a joint piece of work. It is a joint work and will serve the whole Czech Republic. To Mr Luzar. I thank you very much for your proposals through Mr President. There is no change at all about small-scale contracts. In the new law, the obligation to comply with the rules in the procurement procedure will apply. It's true here that we give the contracting authorities great responsibility. However, we have pointed this out since the beginning of this law. We give them responsibility, we give them more competence, but at the same time we don't force them to learn something new because they can use the experience they have. It was also said that this law would cause them to have to hire more law firms. It's not true. It's not true, because at this point, they have to learn to basically work with some new paragraphs, but they can enter according to how they're used to it. Here I would also like to say that I set up a telephone line at the Ministry of Regional Development, where, of course, everyone can call about helping with a contract, etc. It's the first time the Ministry has done this. At the same time, we will circle around all the regions and mayors again and we will do seminars. So the education will be great. I have been waiting for second reading and what amendments will be. [[17.40 hours]] As far as criminal liability is concerned, I have to say here that it still applies today and will continue to apply, and we will not really influence this law. Proceedings without publication and works of art. This is based on the guidelines and the choice of the artist, more generally the competition for the proposal, which means so-called. Architectural competition. For surveillance. There have been many suggestions for supervision. We're going to debate this, I'm going to debate it with President Rafaj, but here we will follow the position of our co-president, who is negative at the moment. I would like to respond to Mr Zahradník, Mr Zahradník, that for buildings of between 10 and 50 million we have this simplified climate management and the procedure is not transparent. It's already being posted on the Internet. And everyone can submit tenders and tender documents, and they're also available on the Internet, so the procedure is transparent. About the low price. The contracting authority can, and even now under the existing law, ask for reasons for a low price. We are even more stringent in the new law. Here I must say that, for example, at the Ministry of Regional Development, we have much stricter rules for contracts in the internal regulations issued by the Ministers for Regional Development, for example, we also publish small-scale contracts. Each contracting authority may proceed more strictly, but it may not proceed more benevolently than the law imposes. I believe that I have covered all the key points with this, and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u57	I thank the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová and ask the rapporteur if she wants to speak at the end of the general debate. Yes, please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u58	I would just like to sum up that there was no proposal to return the guarantee committee in the merged debate to one press, so I guess we can move forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-007-999.u59	I thank the rapporteur and, in that case, I conclude the merged general debate on points 32 and 33 and open the interrupted point
