ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-004-148.u1	148. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement on Enhanced Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other hand /German press 722/ - first reading The Foreign Minister remains at the rapporteur's table and I will ask Mr Leo Luzar, who is the rapporteur for the first reading of the press 722, to take a seat next to the Minister. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to state the draft agreement. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-004-148.u2	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. We had Cameroon and now we have Kazakhstan. Of course, that's completely different, that's the Central Asian Republic. Kazakhstan - this is an agreement, once again, on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan. But it's a higher-type deal than the one I put in here with Cameroon. This is remarkable because this type of agreement has not yet been concluded by the European Union with any country in the Central Asian region, so that Kazakhstan will be the first country at this level. And the fact that Kazakhstan finds itself this way as if above is simply due to the fact that Kazakhstan is an extremely important partner. I think it is important not only for the European Union in the region, but also for the Czech Republic. It is due to the level of modernization of the country, I would say the neutral foreign policy of Kazakhstan and the role that he plays in the region. It could almost be said that Kazakhstan could in some ways serve as an example to other countries in the region in terms of stability of its development and level of economic development. It is by far the largest trading partner of the European Union in the Central Asia region. And if I wanted to say about the relationship with the Czech Republic, you know that Kazakhstan and I have a bigger exchange than we have with all the other countries in the region. This means Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan - we have less trade with all these countries than with Kazakhstan itself. Kazakhstan is the third largest supplier of oil for the Czech Republic, for example. So it's easy to prove that Kazakhstan's role is extraordinary. The Treaty that we are concluding is also interesting because it allows for some deepening of political dialogue, and I think it is also important because, as I said, Kazakhstan is an important player in Central Asia and the need for certain regional stability, the fight against terrorism, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is growing. This means that, even in a number of areas, we need more cooperation with Kazakhstan, and that is why this agreement of a higher type is actually something that will bring political dialogue to a higher level. So I think there are very good reasons to support this treaty and support our relations with Kazakhstan in this regard. It is the interest of the European Union, it is the interest of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-004-148.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and ask Mr Luzar's rapporteur to present his intelligence report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-004-148.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we've already heard information about Kazakhstan. I mean, we have a standard deal with Kazakhstan. This is its increase, its expansion, as it was said here. In a way, this treaty is a groundbreaking treaty that will enable Czech companies, Czech citizens, but also Kazakh citizens and companies to cooperate better in this very dynamically developing market. Therefore, I strongly recommend that we conclude this contract and assign it to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-004-148.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for. I don't see anybody anywhere, so I'm done with the general debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has ordered the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal besides the Foreign Committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the foreign committee, in the vote number 93, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss it to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 93, from the present 128, for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee and that the time limit for discussion has remained under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm ending point 148. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. We will continue with the fixed point number
