ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 903/ - first reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. We dealt with this House press on Tuesday, 25 October, when we interrupted the general debate. At this point, I'm asking Madam Secretary if he's interested in a performance at this point. The rapporteur? Not either. So we will now continue with the interrupted general debate, which Mrs Adamová came forward to, which was interrupted in her speech on 25. 10. Then there was the factual remark of Mr Opálka and then Mr Grospič's application. Now, please get to Mrs. Adamová's microphone. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I'm gonna try to pick up where I left off the other day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u3	Madam, I apologize, but please wait until the House calms down. I will ask my colleagues if they have something to say to each other to do so in the lobby and not disturb us in the hearing. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u4	I would just like to make a very brief summary of what I was talking about last time, to remind you what is essential in this amendment to the Labour Code, I consider it important to mention. It is certainly important, therefore, that there is a frequent change in the terminology of ordering, numbering of paragraphs and heads, moving provisions from one part of the law to another, and this makes it very difficult to guide the law. Surely we all agree that the continuity of law is important for a stable legal order. Now we've been discussing whether we even need to add a law to our legal order. In this case, I would appeal again to making sure there must be some continuity. If there are such changes, they should be justified, and that is not much in this case. I have already spoken in the previous article about unnecessary detailed preciseing of many items. In the Code, therefore, there are also things that need not be, or can only be adapted in a framework way. What we learn from the explanatory memorandum is that the flexibility of the labour market was essential for the petitioners, but in this case the flexibility of employment relations is a wishful thinking and the real situation will get worse. I'll just do it right away on some of the specific examples that I have here. I have also mentioned the introduction of a new category of top employees, which I consider to be completely unnecessary. Others are fundamental changes in the calculation of leave, fundamental changes that concern unforgivable absences, where the employee will not be able to have a reduced holiday by one to three days, but only by the missed time, which is really a step in the wrong direction, because all the preventive effects of the penalty reduction of leave are very important for potential absentees, and thus we give them greater and greater protection. So I'm sure employers will just be unhappy about this, and it won't actually help anyone. Agreements for the execution of work and work agreements shall be subject to similar rules as those for the employment relationship in the register of working time. This application of minimum and guaranteed wages, mandatory breaks at work, or is also abolished by a significant and completely flawed fundamental advantage of greater flexibility of these employment relationships, where it is against the principle that is so often mentioned in the explanatory report, on the contrary, that is an example of how words differ with actions. It is therefore not more flexibility, but, on the contrary, lower flexibility, higher administrative costs, further unnecessary paperwork, more unnecessary duties. A new obligation for employers to prevent the risk of stress, which is one of the many mediated steps, and the risk of violence and harassment in the workplace is another fundamentally flawed legislative step. Once again, it only increases employers' administrative duty, because nothing but paperwork this can be. It increases the risk of litigation, brings nothing positive as a result of the employees themselves. It specifies a lot of detail work from home, remote work. The European regulation based on the agreement of the social partners is supposed to be adopted in this case, but I fear that, as usual in Czech practice, the regulation will be unnecessarily complex and detailed. And the European social partners' agreement does not require such a thing. On the contrary, I would leave the definition of distance working relationships to a large extent on an individual agreement between an employer and an employee, or a collective agreement or an internal regulation of an employer, and we would not have to interfere with it by law at all. The only thing that would be appropriate to adjust is the employer's tax-recognizable costs at work from home, and this does not solve the proposal precisely enough. So better than that. Furthermore, the proposal contains minor minor amendments concerning the service of documents, the calculation of average earnings and the decision-making of labour disputes, where the use of arbitration is excluded. This really is not commonly used in this area, but the parties to the dispute could agree to this if they did not want to go through a lengthy trial, which will not be possible at all. And many other minor changes really only concern terminology and substantive adjustments. For these reasons, which I am trying to sum up here really only briefly and not run into their details unnecessarily, I would like to propose a rejection at first reading, alternatively, if it did not pass, to return the petitioner to the recast. [[18.40 hours]] I would very much like to recommend and appeal not only to you, colleagues, but also to the Minister, that we should really consider the Labour Code as one of the standards that should be changed only very carefully and should, above all, correspond to its philosophy of the 21st century. The current form of the Labour Code is rather still a reference to the last century, when, of course, employment relations were completely different and the labour market was different. And this law, as it is presented here, only complicates life not only for employers, but ultimately for employees themselves. On the contrary, protection that is declared or protected can often become a real punishment, e.g. just in the flexibility that was mentioned here in the implementations, the work activities, etc. In the end, it will be negative for the employees themselves. And I think that we really should really stay back at the moment and prepare a bill amendment that will really correspond with the present, it will be quite different to approach employment relations so that they are really as flexible, free as possible, but not just empty terms, but to make it the reality of the law. And in this case, I would really appeal to the fact that less is more. We then have the following point in the Employment Act, where we will be discussing today, if we get to it again, one of the amendments, but they will follow the next two amendments to the same law immediately. So it shows how fast, how often legislation changes. And we all know very well that the person to whom it falls most is the employers, who then have to adapt very much, to change all the issues relating to the employment of people, which in the end is not particularly good for the employees themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u5	Thank you, Madame. And I just want to get tough. According to my report, Mr Opálka has a point of fact. [[Mr. Opálka approaching the pitch off the microphone: it's already cancelled.]] Okay, but in that case, Mr Grospič, who had a written application, takes precedence. [[MP Opal off the microphone: he checked out.]] So he's downloading it. Okay. It's okay. I'm just reading what's in the president's office that's following the tape. I take it now that Mr Grospič is withdrawing his application, and therefore you have the floor, Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm sorry we may have messed up a little bit, but the time has progressed, and it looks like we're not even going to finish this first reading today. I would also like to consider, my fellow Members of the Government, in several questions whether the 903 House press is really needed, what is redundant in it, or not. which is inadequate or lacking in it. It may have been appropriate to open this press before the debate, close it, discuss another one about employment and then hold a joint debate, because the link between the two laws is essential, one could not be accepted without one another and must be adopted at the same time of effectiveness. So now, to the thesis. The draft proposal that we are to discuss is part of the government's legislative work plan, which means that when planned, the plan needs to be implemented and implemented. At least two major amendments to the Labour Code and more minor amendments to other laws will take place during each parliamentary term. Constant changes bring a lot of stress to those who must obey the law. And maybe you've seen it yourself in the past. However, the provisions of Section 24 of Act No. 2/1969 Sb., so called. A jurisdictional law according to which I am. The Ministry is responsible for the proper regulation of matters falling within the competence of the Czech Republic, i.e. that the laws that are necessary and necessary are being proposed for the implementation of the amendments, because the stability of the legal environment should also be taken into account. As regards the objective of the proposal that we have tabled - I quote: "The main objective of the bill is to make substantive changes in the Labour Code aimed at deepening the flexibility of basic employment relations while strengthening the protection of the position of an employee in these legal relations, in response to the requirements of practice, especially of social partners, and in view of the development of Czech legal order, case law, Czech courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the same time, account shall be taken of the possibility of a reasonable reduction in the administrative burden imposed on employers in relation to the application of the working code.' End of quote. I am not sure that everything is as set out in this objective, perhaps because the content has been gradually adjusted, but this text has remained whole. It is therefore to be the sixth substantial substantive amendment of the Labour Code, when the fifth one took place in 2015 and became effective from 1 October last year, a year ago. It is a question of why the amendments proposed in this draft could no longer be made in this Law No. 205/2015 Sb. She's not very thoughtful about the gradual salami method. For our discussion, the amendment to the Labour Code is presented as so-called. conceptual, but from its content, as I will further state, it is clear that the whole conceptual is not in any way. Only the legislation governing changes in the employment relationship in which the employer withdraws from the unilateral right to transfer employees to another job can be considered conceptual, and the second conceptual change is the legislation on the taking of leave not by working day, but by hour. Currently, weeks of leave on which an employee is entitled shall be transferred to working days. Newly, the weeks of leave for which the employee is entitled shall be transferred to the number of working hours according to the set allocation of the working time of the employee. I don't think both of these conceptual changes are such a big deal that they wouldn't suffer a delay. The petitioner stresses that the method for its procedure is so called. flexicurity or puppy flexicurity. It's probably a certain attempt at a round square, which is, coming out of the nature of the thing, out of the question. The petitioner explains that this is about creating an area in the Labour Code in which labour relations entities can move and use it, i.e. in the working and social environment. But this is a method that is inherent in the creation of private law, see for example. The Civil Code, and without having to stress that it is flexibility, I think it is unnecessary. In principle, the business environment required to increase flexibility in labour relations does not include the draft. A colleague named Adamová has already spoken of this. Not that I'm the one calling, but that's true. The strengthening or enhancement of the protection of the staff member shall take place only to a minimum by means of standards which are, however, lacking enforcement sanctions. So it's more about the declaration. This form of employment will become perhaps less attractive for employers through constant pressure on non-employment agreements, which include an agreement on the execution of work and an agreement on work activities. I don't have a problem with that, but it continues with the trend that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Petr Nečas, had already established when he must have mistaken 150 hours of work with 200 hours of thought and argued in an interview for Hospodářské noviny that he would go for 300 hours, which also happened. He remained in his opinion even after repeated inquiries by the editor. [[18.50 hours]] In short, there are still other obstacles created, see for example. registering working time in the case of an employee working at home. The legal obligation to register working hours worked under the Labour Code is still the employer and not the employee. In the end, it may end in the future by repealing the legislation on non-employment work agreements, which I would not personally block and welcome. Administrative demands placed on the employer reduce the draft slightly, namely in the employment certificate. It's been discussed here, too. The reason that the Institute of Senior Managers is being established is that its adjustment is required by the Confederation of Industry and Transport, it seems convincing and that the petitioner does not seem to have this adjustment in all contexts. The legislation was based not on a substantive solution, but on the possibilities that Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, which is definitely not one of the EU's successful regulations. But as it happens, she's respected by us. As regards European law and its transposition into law, changes are taking place in particular in relation to the organisation of working time and rest periods, in relation to the Directive on certain aspects of the regulation of working time and on matters relating to the transition of rights and obligations from labour relations and the transfer of the exercise of rights and obligations from employment relations. I do not consider amendments to Section 338 of the Labour Code to be legislatively successful, in particular as regards the term used and slavishly translated by an organized group of employees, see Section 338 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c). It is not clear how the application practice will understand this concept. Moreover, it calls for an association with a criminal code where we know - I quote: an organized group of perpetrators. The change in the concept of "constant rest between two shifts" to a new" continuous daily rest " does not sound convincing. If the concept of continuous rest between two shifts met in the legal order of the Czech Republic from the effectiveness of the eight-hour working time law from the so-called. First Republic, I see no reason to change. This is, therefore, an effort to promote otherwise or to please the European Union. In this context, I would like to ask myself a rhetorical question: if this European Working Time Directive is the incantation, why should the concept of weekly rest not be introduced under that directive? In the context of the proposed changes, it is illogical that the case law of the Czech courts was not reflected in the draft. Does he have less power? But if you remember, a quote to the target to present the law was counting on it. However, the draft contains some minor legislation based on application practice. For example, as regards travel refunds, it leaves no note of the clarification of the legal nature of the time periods, i.e. time limits for the exercise of the law, even though the legislation in the 1965 Labour Code was absolutely clear and without doubt. So there was something to take from. And finally. I am of the opinion that the proposed amendment to the Labour Code from the point of view of application practice is not in principle necessary, which the petitioner does not deny. The application of the Labour Code is not made difficult even after the entry into force of the new Civil Code. But I do not want to obstruct the work of a number of officials, which is why I am prepared to table some amendments to the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note Mr Kudela's factual remark. He's downloading. Mr. Rais's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u8	Hello. I'll try very quickly. In fact, I am merely more or less announcing that I will have two amendments to change. One concerns the fact that the government proposal talks about a solid weekly schedule of work, which is totally inappropriate for the university environment, for researchers. So I'm going to put an amendment in that direction. And the second amendment is, I would say, the other way around, here we are talking about home office and the costs associated with it. Of course, this activity is already taking place in universities, or even in research sites. And the introduction of a home office, or, to be more precise, a cost requirement to record the amount of electricity he uses at home right now, so it's kind of nonsense to cut it short. So these are the contents of the two amendments. Given these issues, I would also like to consider the commandments of these amendments to the school committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, therefore the general debate... In the debate, Mr rapporteur? For the debate. So please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u10	Have a nice late afternoon, all of you, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Vice-President. Let me just say a few words. Perhaps I am the only one in this hall, unfortunately, who took part in all possible amendments to the Labour Code at the time when I was still working in tripartite and when we were discussing with employers and with the Ministry of Labour, but also with other institutions of the standards that we are talking about here. It's funny when we interfere with the ignorance of things. And I say that with complete knowledge, as I think I do. Because in 2007 we even asked Petr Nečas, who was then president of the tripartite, and we sent to all Members, the commemorators will remember this, a request not to change anything at all on the standard, because it would be best to accept it as it was very difficult and difficult to agree on precisely within the tripartite. I must say that the Members then heard of it and that about three or four of the proposals that were nevertheless tabled later turned out to be stupid. I'm sorry about the expression. But I just want to say how difficult it is that it's not easy to make a deal. I'd like to say that we can have different opinions about this standard. But what is important is that the social partners to whom this is affecting and who discussed it in the context of the x-month discussion clearly supported the government's prepared draft conceptual amendment. Totally supportive, that's what I'm saying. [[19.00 hours]] And I have a few points here, I know that it may not come to that in time, but if anyone is questioning the establishment of top executives, if anyone is questioning the transfer of employees to another job, if anyone is questioning the adjustments to work agreements outside employment, if anyone is questioning the fundamental change in the conditions of the right to leave, and now I could continue to dissect it, then please let them get acquainted with this practice, see how employers face it, how workers' representatives face it, and what they really want to do in cooperation with that Ministry. I'm not saying the standard is perfect. I never said that. [[Noise in the hall. Member Sklenák keeps knocking on his watch and shows he's about to quit.]] But I just want to say that these things are very difficult and fragile. And unlike this honored plenary assembly here, it's very difficult just to do within these agreements and in these meetings that are being held there, to think it's that simple. It's not! And if anyone thinks it's easy, let them prove it. Then I would quite recommend to some colleagues that they take part in such a meeting just to see how hot it is, that it is not a simple standard. So I don't want to get emotional, but I'm just based on the fact that I've been with these things for 20 years, that I've been dealing with these things for 20 years, that I've been dealing with employers, that I know how complicated it is. And of course, I can think of this standard anything, but it was eventually created by the agreement of all those social partners who participated in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-016-034.u11	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm forced to interrupt you. I am interrupting this point in the general debate. Before I interrupt the meeting, allow me to load my apologies. Mrs Matušovská apologizes for personal reasons until the end of the sitting day, from 17.40 until the end of the sitting day for working reasons, Mr Gabrhel and Mr Okamura apologizes from 17:00 for working reasons. At this point, I am interrupting the House's meeting until 9 o'clock tomorrow morning, when we will continue according to the approved program, and tomorrow at 9 o'clock, we have written interpelations on the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice evening.
