ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u1	58. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, and other related laws /house print 642/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Justice once again to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the next proposal I propose to you is the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Civil Code. A few words about the history of this proposal. You know I'm not hiding my somewhat negative relationship with this new code. I believe that it has not been fully processed or as would have been worth and valued by such an important law. Although since I've been a minister, I know it's been harder than I thought. We originally assumed in the first year of the law that it would be appropriate to prepare a rather extensive amendment that would remove all of us at that time known defects and shortcomings of the law. We did the job. However, we encountered a very strong opposition from the professional public, or a significant part of the professional public, which said that it was rash and that we should therefore let the law sit down and that it is possible that many of these things could be overcome in a judicature and so on. We have finally adopted this approach, however long in the meantime we are concerned that the time before we have measurable or noticeable practical experience will be much longer than everyone thought. For your idea, we have now conducted a large questionnaire inquiry between the district courts in terms of their experience with the application of the new Civil Code in order to find that the experience so far with 90 percent of the text is zero or at a limit approaching zero. The only comments we had, or the reactions we had, were about the experience of applying the right of guardian, or even heir, simply things that are judged in a slightly different rhythm than ordinary civil matters. So, given that even in the District Courts, as we have reports from the field, the first things under the new Civil Code are now under discussion, and we are already in 2016, before we can figure out what the case-law of the higher courts is doing about it, we can expect another two or three years to go by. If we really should be waiting for something like this with a larger novel, we will wait a very long time and maybe cause or cause some irreparable damage. I do not rule out that following the further collection of information that we are now carrying out, we will come up with another and more extensive amendment. However, what I am now putting forward is really a slight amendment, not an important one, which changes a total of eleven things in our Civil Code, which has over 3,000 paragraphs, so it is some three perm of the text. These are things that are well identified so that it seems at least that there is a consensus in the professional public or in the larger part of it, because unfortunately you will never find a full consensus, probably never, that they are really needed. I'll tell you very briefly what the changes are. The first concerns the adjustment of the assumptions for the employment of persons over 15 years of age, the matter required by the social partners within the tripartite, basically a return to the state before the new Civil Code, to a state which did not cause any problems as opposed to the state of the present, which, according to the social partners, both unions and employers, causes problems in starting the work experience of young people who no longer want to continue their education. The second amendment, which is extremely important and, in particular, because of it, I also want to ask you to discuss this proposal as quickly as possible - and I remind you, unfortunately, that it is waiting in the Chamber of Deputies for this glorious moment of first reading since September last year - is an extension of the so-called review of jurisdiction from three to five. The new Civil Code introduced a rule, a big change, that if someone is deprived, newly limited to their rightfulness for some mental disorder or other inadequacy of a similar type, so that it is not permanent, but that periodically the court has to review his condition and again and again to decide that nothing has changed, the state persists, mentally retarded did not progress and so on. The legislator then set the deadline without any regret to determine whether it was even feasible for three years. This means that every three years, the court must retake each person's hands and examine whether the conditions still exist with him. Unfortunately, this also means developing a new expert opinion in the current version. And it is already clear from the first wave of self-righteous reviews that despite all efforts, and I really must say that the courts are doing what they can, that the experts are doing what they can, we are not able to do in those three years, and we are not able to do that quite fundamentally. Unfortunately, the law says that if it doesn't make it, by the end of the deadline, which is three plus one year, those people are becoming fully self-righteous. And I want to stress that their rightfulness is limited to their benefit, because they are capable of hurting themselves by their actions, unless they are deprived of their right. So we propose, on the one hand, an extension of this deadline to five years, which is a standard in the surrounding countries, and, on the other hand, that, in the repeated review, there will be no need for new expert opinions if the original one already states that the state cannot change from the point of view of today's medical knowledge. So there's a significant relief. If we fail to accept this change by the end of this year, the Czech Republic will aspire to the new and great Lurdes, because we will miraculously recover over 10,000, about 15,000 people. But unfortunately, they only recover on paper, and most likely many of them will harm themselves after that, becoming victims of various looters, loan sharks. So for this reason, I really consider this draft very urgent and we very much need it to be discussed this year, which I also realize will not be easy. [[15.50 hours]] Another change concerns the so-called pathological-anatomic autopsies, where due to lack of coherence and certain co-formulatory uncertainties or improprieties in the new Civil Code, there has been considerable doubt as to whether an autopsy can be performed in some types of cases, and rather frequent cases, so that there is a decrease in the probitability, as I have learned. I'm making it a little easier, but I'm serious. This is important in terms of the proper functioning of medicine. Unfortunately, this is something that the case-law won't remove, because I don't think it's gonna be possible to sue that he was supposed to be abducted, so I guess the court will never comment on that question. There is a reasonable interpretation that an autopsy is possible, but unfortunately the hospital is afraid to do so, and the caselaw hardly ever helps them here. The next amendment is the abolition of the requirement to register in the form of a authentic instrument in cases where the document must then be in the form of a authentic instrument itself. After that, practice calls, the Supreme Court has entered into this with its decision, but it is necessary to build it again in our opinion. Furthermore, the removal of doubt as to whether, in the event that the spouse acquires a share in the duration of the marriage, the second spouse becomes merely a co-owner of the equity value of the share, or also a co-partner of the company into which the second spouse entered. So far, we've got some sort of interpretation inertia working here. People continue to take it so that it certainly applies first, which means it does not become a partner, but the law speaks quite clearly in this case and speaks in reverse, so there are doubts. If the opinion, which unfortunately does not allow the text, or if it is difficult to accept another interpretation that the second husband also becomes a partner, appears to us a problem in all types of companies where the possibility of being a partner is somehow limited, such as the company of lawyers, auditors and so on and so on and so on. Furthermore, the correction, I am halfway through, the error, when it was written into bankruptcy law instead of bankruptcy, and the result is that it is now said that the duty of parents to care for the child's assets is no longer determined by the bankruptcy, and it is not actually clear who is supposed to take care of it in the bankruptcy declaration, when the insolvency administrator is just taking part. Furthermore, we want to facilitate the acquisition of a will to blind people and persons with sensory disabilities, where completely illogically these persons must have a lot, and I do not know how many, three or five witnesses and cannot obtain a common notary record, although all other persons can do so, which is difficult to understand and is certainly not correct. The eighth point is something very important, the second probably most important, and this is the introduction of the register of trust funds. That's what I expect will be the biggest debate. Trust funds are something that is not registered anywhere today, it can be freely created. As Panama Papers show us, these are structures that allow us to hide property, and I think that at a time when all Europe is trying to combat terrorism and to combat terrorist financing, it is not reasonable for us to have a structure that allows occult property ownership. It is therefore proposed to introduce their registration in part a public register. It is also proposed to reduce the maximum amount of cash security lodged at the start of rental housing from six months' rents back to what was in the old Civil Code, and that is three months' rents. This is mainly based on the demands of our colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and at all experts on rental housing issues, who observe in practice that there is abuse of the Institute and a certain part of the population is excluded from the possibility of reaching rental housing by requiring a six-month advance when I say it simply, which they simply are not able to put together. As a result, people end up in our hostels, where, of course, they can't lead a proper life and, to everything else, we often have to pay them as part of different benefits. And the last two points. One of them is to abolish the requirement to modify the name of the associations and the community of owners established before the new Civil Code is effective. There we observed that the reception rate of public change was quite low. In particular, this concerns a community of owners, who know that decision-making procedures are often complicated, difficult to meet, legal services are also not very large, so there is a large percentage of those who simply have not changed their name simply because they consider it stupid, I dare say change it. I don't call it that kind of a sharp word for myself, but let's just say it was a bit of an ill-advised demand for them, which makes their lives unnecessary. We think it's time to make people feel better, and the duty to just forgive them, nothing bad is going to happen. And the last, the demand of the social partners - releasing the concept of a subsidiary trade union organization and a subsidiary of employers, which got there again a little by mistake and complicates the creation of trade unions in particular with individual employers unnecessarily, adds administration to them and to us in courts. That was briefly, I apologize for keeping you tired for a long time, 11 points that we propose. As I say, because of this point in particular, the extension of the time limit for the review of jurisdiction, but also from a general point of view, I would like to ask not only for the release to first reading, but for the quickest possible discussion of this matter and for a certain moderation in the drafting of parliamentary proposals. I can blame the Civil Code for a few things, but after all, it is an extensive structure that is not sensible to interfere with without consideration. I am a little afraid that there will be no flood of proposals to improve the Civil Code during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. Please keep this. As I say the Ministry will come up with another amendment, it is open to your suggestions and will process them into such a larger amendment in an attempt to preserve the logical coherence of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. For those of you who make factual remarks, I would like to inform you that the factual point serves to respond to the debate, so this can only be applied after the debate has taken place. We're not in the debate yet. The rapporteur will now appear, Mr Radek Vondráček. Then I will open the debate, let Mr Plíšek speak, and then you can make your factual remarks. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, what can I say after I present the Minister, who, as a well-known fan of the new Civil Code, has carefully described the whole proposal here? My intelligence work is already very limited, and I can only share a little tongue with you. I've been practicing that this minimalist amendment is the most minimalist of all novels that it can be, and, if possible, least controversial. So I can only express my wish at this point as rapporteur that this proposal will not become pandořiný's box, and that we have opened a new Civil Code that has aroused emotions since it was adopted, so that what will not happen to us here - I have remembered Mr Jandák, who today complained about 220 amendments in smoking, so that we do not by chance beat this record in this new Civil Code, and that we will, as MEPs, be moderated with our amendments. Of course, I'm going to have a small, small one, meaningless one, but hopefully we can keep it within reasonable limits. I'm not gonna talk any more, I'm sure there's a lot of people interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, before I get to the individual proposals for the amendment to the Civil Code, I would like to make a general remark. The minister, while he was still the first deputy at the Ministry of Justice, one of the first things he did when he joined the Ministry, and he continued as a minister, was that he wanted to do a quick recodification of the new Civil Code, which means fundamentally change the Civil Code, including the initial definitive provisions. He even sent us individual versions of the changes as Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee. And we really freaked out as soon as the new Civil Code began to operate and pay, so we should fundamentally amend it. This, of course, came across the fundamental opposition of the professional public, but also of the Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so that the Minister and his team lost quite a lot of time working over a major recodification that would be really harmful and dangerous and would bring even more legal uncertainty to users of the new Civil Code. Consequently, on the basis of these dissenting reactions from the professional public with the fundamental change of the new Civil Code, the debate came about so-called. a technical amendment and it has also been discussed for a very long time in the Legislative Council of the Government on several occasions. The Government's Legislative Council has also released some passages from the proposal, such as the return of pre-emptive rights in real estate, etc., until we have a proposal that I would like to call essentially useless, unnecessary and opening Pandořin's box of starting creativity in second reading about what other and other changes we will receive there on the basis of the activities of our Members. Instead of the Ministry of Justice working and presenting to us in the Chamber of Deputies fundamental, important laws such as the new law on experts and interpreters, such as the new law on public custody, such as the new law on free legal aid, it sends here this technical amendment, which, I repeat again, in my opinion, and I will soon demonstrate this over individual provisions, is useless and we would certainly do without it, at least until the time of the caselaw and until the new Civil Code sits down. I'm going to do the individual parts now. It's not all as indisputable and technical as the Minister has just told us, and it's not that there's such a general consensus over these changes. The restriction on the protection of children and parental rights over minors is allegedly in favour of employers. The question is whether it is always in favour of children if the legal representative has the right to abolish inappropriate employment for those children. So, in my opinion, this is not just a technical question, and it will have to be discussed further, if of course, by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Limitation of the rights of mentally ill persons to periodic judicial review from three to five years. This has been criticized in practice, but it has been dealt with by changes in the process and by simplifying the evidence of non-changing states. As far as autopsies are concerned, there is a question - it could have occurred, and we recently had an open health service law, where this matter could have been opened by special legislation without having to intervene in the general code of private law. Then it is there in § 441 para. 2 reduction of power of attorney requirements. This is probably the only change that may be welcome in practice, except that, according to current case law, an officially verified signature is already sufficient. In Article 709, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 Exemption of a share in the corporation from the joint property of the spouses. This is a serious conceptual intervention, which I certainly would not call technical change, and it will undoubtedly require a major debate. In Article 901, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is corrected by one word, perhaps correctly in the code which has a lot of paragraphs, but the question is, why not correct any other shortcomings that may be there. So this change is really just a change for a change to complete the list. As regards the breach of the Institute of Trust Funds by requiring constitutional registration in a public register, it is unfortunately based on the misconception that, according to the petitioner, the trust fund is a legal entity, but it is not a legal person, it is considered a matter. That means, if, let's say, the registry adjustment is applicable to trust funds in terms of their nature. It's a matter of fact again. As far as will requirements are concerned, it is one of the random changes, but it can be considered to be modified. Another problem, however, is the reduction of maximum bail on the rent of the apartment from six to three months, which, in my view, is an absurd addition which was not part of the original proposal, has not been passed through the comments or the Legislative Council of the Government, has been supplemented and is the creation of a kind of non-existent problem at the time of the existence of the housing market. As far as branches are concerned, this is, in turn, a matter that is linked to the comments of apparently trade unions, and it is also nothing fundamental, necessary and necessary. And the Minister himself was actually talking about only one fundamental change needed. I, in this context, because the changes that I have mentioned show that we can live without them, that the Civil Code, although the views on it at the time it agreed and when it started to pay, were different, work, does not bring fundamental - I stress fundamental - problems, and I am really afraid of Pandořina's box, the opening of the various creativity of the changes and the attempt to codify the recent codification on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies without proper expert discussion. Therefore, in view of the marginality of the changes that are being made to us here, I propose that we return this press to the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, there is room for a factual remark by Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have two minutes. Dear colleagues, as former Minister of Justice, I would like to point out here that since the beginning of my term of office in this respect I have had a different opinion from my first deputy, and therefore in my era no such proposal, or therefore, has been handed over to you on a comprehensive amendment. That is only what you have just heard from Mr Plíšek, by your means, Mr President. These were informal proposals, perhaps working documents, but I would never agree that such a comprehensive proposal should be presented in the Chamber of Deputies in the first and second years after its entry into force. [[16.10 hours]] Now, let's get to the novel that's going on. We also called her an acute novel, now you call her a technical novel. I think that especially when it comes to rightfulness, but even those children who have now been a little bit challenged are the things that need to be corrected and within the shortest possible time. I am also afraid that this opens Pandořin's box, but I think that we, in particular the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, will all be able to show the extent to which we stick to the words that will fall in the Chamber of Deputies at first reading, and what will then happen in the second reading already in the closer assembly of the Constitutional Legal Committee. So I wouldn't worry about that. Thus, as the predecessor of my successor, Minister of Justice Pelikán, I recommend that we also shorten the time limit for the hearing, support this law and be very disciplined, because I do not think that such an important code should be changed before five years later. So if so, only the technical modifications and the technical modifications were made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u9	Madam, shall I take that as your proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing? May I ask for further clarification on how long the deadline is to be reduced?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u10	I suggest we shorten the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u11	Yeah, okay. We'll vote on that. I do not see any further factual points, so please Mr Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know where the rapporteur is. I'm surprised the rapporteur isn't sitting next to the minister, but I guess it doesn't matter, he's probably gone to his own desk. I will join Mr Plíšek's proposal and return it to the Ministry for revision. I consider this bill entirely necessary. Totally necessary. We don't really need any of this. Practice can handle most of these things. We well know that the question of full power has already been addressed and resolved to some extent. Everything that was painted around it turned out to be preposterous to a large extent. It's unsolvable. And then the interventions that are being done here, in my opinion, are just like completely random and inconveniently, it's not clear where they came from, if they just picked up like somewhere in the Ministry or somewhere around the Ministry, why these things are being dealt with and why they aren't dealing with something completely different. It is no truth that there is any consensus of a civilian in this country, so this is not true at all. On the contrary, the vast majority of civilians say: do not touch the Civil Code at all, and when you are already touching, do not touch things you do not understand - which unfortunately, in this case, seems to be quite clearly happening. Let's take the individual stories. Easier to employ children, so-called easier to employ children. A matter based on the Labour Code of the 1950s, which is no longer regulated in Europe. We are already bound by so many international commitments to protect children, and here is just a simple provision - if it were contrary to his education, if it were contrary to the possibility of further education. So, under some circumstances, parents can terminate a contract with their employer. Suddenly it comes - I don't know who pushes it, who employers, which union unions. Allegedly, they press that we need children from the age of 15 to be free to go into slavery so as to simplify it, and no one can stand up for them. Is that the thesis we need to resolve in the new Civil Code? The same, the question of mentally ill. I feel that there are a lot more problems in the practice, which, as usual, did not want to do it, everyone knew since 2012, that the law is and will, efficiency has been postponed since two years, were three years old to - it is in the interest of mentally ill, virtually. persons who do not have the right to review their situation. Let's not pretend that it's not in their interest, and let's not pretend that the fact that so-called "not" gets at them will lead the Minister to say that most of them will hurt themselves. That's not true. On the contrary, it is in the interests of those persons that once in a while the court should look and say: it is indeed a person who is completely incompetent, or it is a person who is supposed to have limited right, some legal acts can do. holt simply has some limitations that he cannot do some very fundamental legal acts. It's in the interest of the person so she can function in her normal life. Not that it's in her interest to keep her in a state she doesn't have as long as possible. This is where we're going to look, because the practice has given up, maybe today the courts and experts aren't in the process that it's actually in the interest of those people to continue to be held in a regime of full loss of eligibility. The third thing is the famous autopsies. I know the minister said it lightly in a joke, but I don't think it's entirely funny. I don't understand how the Minister of Justice can say it. Just my body is my body at all times. There's no health care, there's no doctor. Are there some special situations in which an autopsy must be carried out under other laws, such as murder, crime, and other things, but if my body is ethically used for autopsy just because we have a decrease in dissection? It's not like there's any technique where we look - it's like, doctors have little to do with the autopsy, just like we might take everyone out and say you can't tell the rule that my body mustn't be treated after my death. And that's the way the novel goes. I think there are some really unthinkable things on the basis of the fact that the Young Front, the central daily of Agrofert, once in a while, writes some headlines that seem like it needs to be dealt with. I think dealing with things in civil law under the headlines of the Young Front is a really scary mistake that we're not supposed to enter. Same trust funds. I would just like to remind you from the point of view of history, so that we don't forget some things. The amendment of trust funds was included in the new Civil Code according to the Quebec model on a proposal made by Irena Pelikánová, mother of the former Minister of Justice, in the Government's Legislative Council 5. 4. 2001. Under the Socialist Government, it was decided, on the proposal of Professor Pelikánová, that trust funds under the Quebec model would be included in the concept of the Civil Code, which was then approved by the Socialist Government 2002, and on the basis of this substantive intention, the legislative text was processed. The Trust Fund is a very sensible thing used in many countries in the world. He certainly has nothing to do with the way the minister here with ease has moved on with us today, with Panama Papers. I have no idea where he got this thesis. If we know Panama Papers was the only trust fund, I have no idea. That's just the headline of the Young Front. As far as I know, I have read about the trust fund once in the last time in the public space, and that was when the European Commission decided to provide funds for Turkey to help out in the emigrants camps, so it went the way of the trust fund. That was the only thing that was used in public space. [[16.20 hours]] It's just a meaningful solution, but it has to be known that it's not a legal person, which I have a feeling that the previous management of the Justice Department or the experts who are working on it doesn't seem to know that it's not a legal entity. That it's completely pointless to write him down. Those are the kind of low-downs that I find... But we're gonna quote Panama Papers and say there's money leaking from trust funds somewhere. Some other items have been marked, but if we want to cancel trust funds, let's cancel them. Maybe it's a conceptual change. I consider it unreasonable, because I think that they have been brought into the law for reasonable reasons, which allow the administration of some of the larger assets in an easier way. But let us not pretend that their complete rollover into something completely different, where their nature is completely misunderstood, will help trust funds, and let us not pretend that this is something that the European Commission prescribes or prescribes agreements against money laundering. They prescribe completely different things to us than to create some public register of trust funds. So please, let's not cut short the deadline. With all due respect to Professor Válková, let's not cut short the deadline. It won't be, nor will this discussion be as simple as it looks. And you can see that I'm not proposing a single extension. I will not propose a single extension of the amendment to the Civil Code, because I really consider it a mistake. And I think that the codes of this nature will be perfectly fine for five years without a single principle. That justice can finally cope with this, that practice can cope with it and that it would be best if we didn't really open the bill now, leaving the new Civil Code to the new Civil Code. And if the next House comes back to him after the next election, then maybe he'll have some reasonable knowledge from practice. But for the complexity of what's being presented here, I wouldn't recommend cutting it down to 30 days, because I think part of things will have to be completely thrown out and parts will have to be rewritten if there was such an interest in doing it at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u13	I thank Mr Benda. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, in contrast to my two previous colleagues, who were hoarding for the Civil Code to remain unchanged for at least some time - and they are colleagues who, not only me, but also the other Social Democrats, fought for the new Civil Code not to be approved at all, and we were on the same boat with today's minister, who was against him as an attorney, but not just me, but all of the ČSSD - so I think that the changes are reasonable and that they came at the right time, because in practice they show that they can really be a problem. So I'm calling it a change -- maybe a strong word, but I'm happy for her. However, there is one thing that bothers me about the novel. I've been waiting all along, or I thought there'd be some kind of correction in the press about what happened when the new Civil Code was adopted. And I consider it a big mistake to abolish the preemptive right. I have a feeling that the Minister has announced some time a year ago, three quarters of a year ago, that he will be there to re-establish his pre-emptive rights. Unfortunately, he's not there. And I want to ask, through... or without means, is the Minister here planning, if not here in the next novel he promised to return to the pre-emptive law. Because I think it should be there. I think it was a big mistake that it canceled. I think that the institute, that it doesn't actually exist except for some exceptions, is being abused. Although we know that co-ownership, as we were taught at the law school, is the devil's invention and that ownership should be directed rather into the hands of one person, so in life it happens that property e.g. owns more than one person. And it used to be just clear and decades of legal practice that if you want to get rid of some part of your property, half your house, you have to offer it to a co-owner unless you're transferring it to somebody close to you. This is not the case now. And he's taking advantage of those things. It's already turned to me - I don't want to say how someone exaggerates, says tens, hundreds, no, a few people who know it's being abused and that it's a means of blackmail. You want to get rid of... Or I want to buy your share, so I'm not gonna buy it, but I'm gonna sell mine at some price. And I'm gonna sell it to a person you're not gonna be happy to be your co-owner. So it's just a problem, Mr. Secretary. And I wonder if you feel the same way. If you are willing, because Mr Vondráček promised to make a slight change in the form of an amendment, to accept my amendment... [[He's laughing.]] And there's gonna be more in someone else's house. Or I won't give it to you if you promise me that in the larger amendment, the pre-emptive right will be returned. I think that it has relevance and that it is assertable in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u15	I thank Mr Chvojka. With a factual remark - no, duly registered. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure it's not a good idea to shorten the deadline. But I have a specific question about one of the proposed changes - I guess I'm the first non-institutional-law committee to enter the debate - and this is Section 2254. That's the principal where six times the maximum is proposed three times. I wonder why. I don't know if we're going to quantify cases where the tenant lives. He'll live in the apartment. He won't. He won't pay for the services. Causes damage and does not put the apartment in its original state. And basically all that's left of the owner is that he can partially bail himself out of the bail he has prepaid the tenant. So instead of protecting the owner and leaving the contractual freedom, some imaginary demand for an MPSV, which is not justified in any way, says that a three-month advance on the rent is enough. Try to make it a little economical and quantify the cases. And what should poor owners do after their tenants, and unfortunately such tenants exist, after which debts, unpaid invoices and devastated interior spaces remain? I know you're gonna tell them to sue, and then, eventually, have the bailiff enforce it. We know cases like this. But where there's nothing, the bailiff doesn't pick anything. And it's a burden to the owners of apartments or houses. So I do not consider this particular proposed change to be founded on anything. In the explanatory memorandum there is one general sentence at the request of the MPSV. But that seems so little to me. So at the very least, we're going to propose that this paragraph be released when there's supposed to be some kind of boundary. Why isn't it on contract freedom? Ask the mayors if three months' bail is enough. And we're talking about community apartments. We're not talking about private. Look, ask the Union of Towns and Municipalities how large the debts are for the rents registered by the municipalities. And it's burdened with public budgets. And you make it difficult for apartment owners, whether they are municipalities or private, at least in part if the tenant does not behave properly, so that partly of something they have the opportunity to pay outstanding debts or damage to property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. Another, this time duly registered is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. After that, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, we discussed the possibility of deferring the effectiveness of the Civil Code in the autumn of 2013. In this context, I drew attention to the problem of restricting jurisdiction for a period of three years. It was the experience of judges who pointed out that this would be a matter that would be largely overwhelmed by the courts and that it would also be very costly, because with each new assessment there must be a new expert opinion. This change brings some relief. In the new regulation, the original limitation of discretion may be extended to five years. Another problem with the current regulation was that the courts are overwhelmed at regular intervals by new requests to restrict their jurisdiction every three years. Here, the amendment will make it easier for the courts, which will review these requests in a very simple way, for an extension of five years. When practice shows whether it will bring some ease to the courts and will help significantly their burden in the area. I am certainly of the opinion that the proposed amendment is necessary, it should help both guardians and courts in the procedure for restricting their right to do so. That point is related to the amendment of the Law on Special Proceedings of the Courts in the Houses of the Press 642. Perhaps it would be worth considering an extension for more than five years, because I really think that these courts must be overwhelmed by it and that this is a rather costly matter. Then I would like to make one further mention of this proposal, and that is to facilitate the granting of power, which must take the prescribed form of the authentic instrument. While the current situation allowed the measure of such power in principle only in the form of notary registration, which of course had to be paid by the client, at the moment it will be up to the principal whether he will go to the notary or only have the signatures verified cheaply. Of course, I can imagine that this change may cause some resistance for notaries, and I think it will be a bit of an empty use of power of attorney in the form of a real public document. In most cases, however, in everyday life, a person really needs full power with verified signatures to prove the officiality of the document, and it is a much cheaper option. In serious cases, people will surely reach for the form of notary writing. But here, I think, it should be considered whether it should be added to the law that the signature of both the principal and the agent should be in the power of attorney. I have also come across the view that power of attorney is a one-sided legal act that does not require a proxy to sign it and accept the power of attorney. All he has to do is keep it with him and act on it. However, according to its wording, the proposed amendment refers to signatures and, in my view, automatically calculates that both the agent and the principal will sign the power of attorney. Here, this double interpretation of how many signatures are supposed to be in power could in some cases lead to disputes, even if of course there are certain exceptional cases, but it is the kind of recommendation I make on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u19	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly signed up is Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm more of a general remark. When I listen to the speeches of Mr Chvojka, Mr Hovorka, Mr Minister and perhaps others, and not just now, there are just some old fights that were once, about the form of the so-called new Civil Code, which is now in some way valid. I mean, what we're discussing today is, like, a tiny little... It's supposed to be proof of those who suggest it and support that they were actually right about what the mistakes were. But I don't think we're gonna get anywhere in this way if we're still doing some minor modifications, make adjustments, just to prove we were right then. I understand and I would consider it legitimate if those who were against the law, and when they said it here, they came and said, "We're gonna break the civil code, he's terrible - because today you have a majority. But more importantly, b) - they brought a better Civil Code, which is not happening. It is good to criticize the code - if Mr Chvojka and some others here said, Mr Chvojka not right now, now I apologize, but some others that actually the old code was almost better, then cancel this, have the courage, in your own movements and parties make it happen and then declare it. But we're hacking into a little ship called the Civil Code, and instead of saying, "We're gonna shoot it down, we're gonna say it for a long time, it's all wrong," so first we're gonna get in the lower deck, then we're gonna try to sneak in there for a while, maybe we're gonna do something wrong, and we're gonna move on. So I repeat, cancel the whole thing if you have the political strength to do it, but most importantly, present a better one. And the kind of sewing those little pockets instead of making a whole suit, anybody can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u21	I thank Mr Blažek. With a factual remark, Mrs Válková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I will only respond to my previous speaker, through you, Mr Blažek. But it's not like that at all. On the contrary, even from among the opposition, there have been critical words here that they are essentially changing only slightly and only in areas that you yourself define as irrelevant, insignificant, which is why you are questioning the change at all. So now I don't understand. So that's probably when I take your analogy, so it's like somebody's running there with the colors under the deck, and instead of the wall being green, he's painting it blue so the sailors can see better or worse. Now, forgive me for not being able to continue with that term, because I don't understand it. But I think that, on the contrary, there are only those acute changes caused by practice. I myself know of some others that might be useful, for example, in the field of employment, employment, but so far we are all restrained. Let's hope it lasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u23	Thank you, Madame Válková. And now, with a factual remark from Mr Blažek, after him Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u24	Well, thank you for your word. In her previous speech, Mrs Válková herself said so, and I agree with her that she can open up - you did not say Pandořin's box, someone else said so. But I don't know if this bill is coming just to open up a wide debate on committees, and I don't know where everywhere, and at third reading, there was a huge amendment to the Civil Code - or how it could happen? So I say, rather than admit these risks, write a better law and bring it in. Nothing more, nothing less. But all of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u25	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u26	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't get a say in the matter when the President stopped me, I think he was in charge of the meeting, I don't think there was a debate yet, so now, even at a distance. Mrs. Válková said herself a moment ago, if I correctly registered it, there are a few minor things there. Then why are we wasting our time on this, with all the insignificant stuff? Why are we wasting our time with insignificant things? We discussed this in the morning - I was right to my colleague Urban, that we are wasting time here over the smoking law and we have much more substantial laws here that the House should discuss. The minister in the introductory words - I wanted to respond to this - said that he would like it to be discussed quickly and at the same time said that it has been here for some time. So I didn't linger and I looked into the system - it's been here for six months, that's true. So that's the classic government coalition: we're gonna stretch it out first, we're gonna leave it in the drawer first, and then we're gonna be begging here: we need to discuss this quickly. I'll stop myself. I'm not gonna say what I was gonna say to the public right now. Please, stop it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u27	I thank Mr Fiedler. Two more factual points - first Mr Petr Bendl, then Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u28	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the Minister when he justified this draft amendment to the Civil Code and, as one of the points here, he said about the cancellation of the rent, the six-month lease, from six months to three. And my colleague Stanjura asked him a question, and I can see that the Minister is not interested in answering. Or maybe he'll react in his final words, who knows if. So I would like to call on you to answer, because then we have no chance of responding to this except for the priority rights. So please don't do little Bobš around here and try to sort of come out with an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u29	I thank Mr Bendl. So far, the last point of fact is that of Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u30	Hello. Mr President, Minister, I listened carefully to the debate that was here, and all previous speakers agreed that this was a very difficult intervention in the new Civil Code, and a proposal was made here to shorten the time limit for discussion. So I will allow myself, with some previous speakers, to appeal to us not to reduce this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u31	I thank Mr Kudel. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. [[Objection in the O.R.]] I have given quite a time limit, but, well, I apologise, I take back the end of the debate. In fact, Mr Fiedler is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u32	Just for a very short time. Traditionally, a colleague named Bendl said it, a challenge for the petitioner. We ordinary Members who have no right can no longer respond after the final word. What happened - traditionally nothing, the translator will say it in the final word so that it can no longer be commented as it is customary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u33	Again, I ask if anyone else is reporting for the debate. If that is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u34	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, first one general and technical remark. The preparations for the larger amendment to the Civil Code were completed in September 2014. Following this, in September, I think, this proposal went to the legislative process for my predecessor then. Since then, no major amendments have been made to the Justice Department. So if I sometimes read in the paper that I am a terrible minister, because all my time I am losing the useless preparation of a huge amendment to the Civil Code, as the Minister, I didn't do it for a moment because I simply accepted the fact that the professional public largely rejected such an amendment. I am convinced that in a few years, it's like finding her in that drawer, because problems are gradually beginning to manifest themselves, but I just accept what the majority opinion is, and I don't see why I would really waste my time going head-on against the wall. It fascinates me, of course, if, after we've retreated from the original idea here, I'm blamed that I'm not coming up with a big novel. Well, I don't know what to do anymore. I can take it out of that drawer again, I have it, but you'd be the first to say it's wrong. Because you even managed to say it at the same time, saying it's wrong that I was making a big novel, and it's wrong that I brought a small one. Well, unfortunately. At the same time it is not true, the novel was never called a technical novel. It's not a technical novel, it's just a small novel that contains changes that have a broad consensus on them. And I pointed out in my introductory words that this is not a general consensus and that, of course, it is not a consensus shared mainly by the overwhelming minority of the professional public, that is, the original authors of the Civil Code who are convinced that they have written it well, so there is nothing to change about it. But there's a pretty broad consensus that these things should change, and that's why we put them in the novel. The reason why it's no longer the pre-emptive law, the change that was actually there and that fell out, is because unfortunately, urgency - or time just goes by, and with time going by, at least my perspective on some questions is changing too. Not because I'm changing my mind about them, but because we just have to respect some legal certainty, too. And what I believe could be changed shortly after the adoption or entry into force of the new Civil Code, so in some cases, and this is one of them, it would no longer be right to change today. Just co-ownership, with no pre-emptive law, is too much, and it will be before this amendment comes into effect, before we can disappoint these people's trust in the immutability of the relationships they enter into. So for this reason, I gave way to this point, although I also have reports that the abuse is happening, perhaps not too often. When it comes to autopsies, well, it's not to have a better number of study, it's not anatomical autopsies, but it's called. Anatomical pathology autopsy. And these are autopsies used by a doctor and medicine at all as feedback where he considers it necessary, of course, with respect for the deceased's body, but there are simply cases where medical devices are not sure of diagnosis at all, by treating them well. And if medicine is to work and if we don't have more dead people, then in these cases, we just have to be able to verify the situation on the body of the dead. I think, at the same time, maybe we want to, or some more, some less, so that no one can touch us after we die, but most of us would also like to not die as long as possible, and to do that, the anatomical-pathological autopsies are simply necessary. As far as the question of the review of legality is concerned, I am fascinated by the fact that someone overslept. He overslept, his name was Pospíšil and his successors from your governments, who began by failing to calculate how many health experts we had in the field of health, and thus psychiatry, who were necessary, who prescribed that they had to see those people deprived of their rightfulness, and could not figure out how many of those deprived of their right, and could not divide these two numbers. 'Cause if he did, he'd know that in three years, it just can't be done. And, yes, those who, in those two years of legisvakance, could not even propose an amendment or take action, even though it is not clear to me what it would be like to strengthen the state of our experts, because this is something that is serious about those experts. And I can assure you that since we're in government, practice has been doing everything it can. I can assure you that the courts from the first moment they can - because they before 1. 1. 2014 simply could not - from the first moment they initiated those reviews to the greatest extent possible and very diligently continue them and bypass those persons with limited right or deprived of right, because they also have to see. Even the department's gotten stronger, but you just can't make it with this number of experts! And I would really like to know how my practice works! Which is the second thesis - practice can handle everything. How's he gonna handle it? I don't know. Well, I got fired up. I promised myself I'd keep my cool, so I didn't do it, so I'm sorry. [[16.50 hours]] The last question that was here, why do we want to return the bail to three times the rent? Well, we've actually listened to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in this, and they've just completed detailed material in which they explain it in more detail. They really explain that in certain and relatively large income groups of our inhabitants, these people are simply unable to put together six rents. And it's just these groups that are at risk of what you're saying, that is. The housing, and at the same time, we know it. When you look at these surveys of how much money people have, you find that unfortunately, the vast majority of the population has no population at all and that the amount of residents who have at their disposal cash equivalent to six rents is really very small. So they identified it as a serious barrier to the use of rental housing. And you're right, it's restrictive for the landlords. This is a legitimate reminder and it is a matter of a legally-political view whether it is simply meant to be or not. And it's just this legitimate debate between the right and the left, and I'm counting on us to do it in the next reading on this subject, and I'm not defending it at all. I guess that's the end of it. Because the debate here was oscillating between a general one and one that, I think, belongs to the Constitutional Committee, if any. until second reading. So in the rest of it, I think that's something that's been discussed a lot of times, because we didn't start the debate today, but we're probably going to do it again on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I ask once again to support both the proposal and the shortening of the deadlines proposed by Professor Válková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u35	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Citizen's Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u36	So it is not entirely easy to respond to such an arrogant speech by the Minister of Justice. I mean, he didn't surprise me. Colleagues called on him to respond to his performance, and he didn't give them the chance. In the same way, he confessed "bravely" that he had an excellent novel in his drawer, but that he would not submit it. Third, he made it up when he talked about us. We didn't call, none of the ODS members, after a bigger novel. We clearly said not to accept any novels. And that's a big difference. So you made that up so that you could deduce such a weird design that you're criticized for being too small a novel, and at the same time, that you didn't bring any bigger. So there's no such thing on our side. At the same time, you say you want to propose a shortening of the deadline. And it's been here six months. Again, it is important to thank the Minister for coming to the House once in a while and after half a year we could discuss the first reading, because the pace and order of discussion of the press dictates the government coalition, not the opposition. So if it's been here for six months, now the rest of us are only supposed to get 30 days. And you'll see, if we cut it short for 30 days, we'll still discuss it at second reading in September, because the minister here in June won't be as good and popular as he is. And about the particular question I gave, I didn't get any answers. You actually said if I understood that you sent it here first, and then additionally the MPSV processed some more detailed material. But we don't have him at our disposal. And notice... And we agree on the description of the problem. The Minister says: This is in favour of those who, as you rightly say, are at risk of housing the apartment - and I agree - and we therefore propose that the owner of the apartment may choose a lower bail. Well, that doesn't make any sense. You're actually saying that those at risk of housing the apartment and some damage that the owner will bear. And you really think we're gonna push through that, that those private owners are gonna rent it to somebody, that some kind of barrier is gonna break down? Well, it won't. On the contrary, if there's a bigger deposit or bail, theoretically, there's a greater possibility that the owner might risk it. He'll say I have six rents, so let's see. I can keep checking for three months, and I'm able to pull the emergency brake in time, and in the event of the damage, bail out. So it doesn't tear down any barrier, and it's exactly in the spirit of that neo-Marxist wing in our government, which just sees that it will raise us, regulate us, and torment the owners. Because whoever has property is just a dirty suspect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u37	Thank you to President Stanjur. That was the last logged in so far, even though it was out of the debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby and we'll vote. First of all, Mr Plíšek's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion and then, if necessary, we will deal with the commandments of the committees. There's an application for check-out, I'm signing you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Plíšek's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I've started the vote. Whoever is in favour of returning the proposed proposal to the applicant, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 437, registered 145 Members and Members, for 37, against 76. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? This is not the case. We will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this motion to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 438, registered 146 Members, for 145, against none. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u38	No, don't worry, it's not the agricultural committee, it's the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, given that housing is his thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-009-058.u39	Thank you. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? If this is not the case, we will vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, in accordance with Mr Bendl's proposal. I am opening the vote on the commandment to this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 439 vote, 148 Members and Members, for 86, against 36. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that we have ordered the proposal to the Committee on Constitutional Law as a guarantee and a committee on public administration and regional development. Mrs Válková also proposed to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is to shorten the deadline, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 440, registered 148 Members of Parliament, for 55, against 81. The motion was not accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the discussion of the first reading of this point. [[17,00 hours]] The next item is:
