ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u1	166. Government proposal of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility /German press 411/ - 3rd reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee take his place at the rapporteur's table, this is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 411/6, which was delivered to you on 9 September. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to you as the House Press 411/7. I am now asking the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Mr. Secretary? Yes, you're interested. [[The noise in the hall again.]] I can't give the Prime Minister another word because there's a lot of noise. I ask my colleagues who want to discuss something other than the 411 press to do so in the lobby. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing the package of regulations on budgetary responsibility. This means a draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility and, following it, a draft law on budgetary responsibility rules and amending law. As you know, this is legislation covering the national budgetary framework in which its main principles and principles are defined. [[9.10 hours]] The proposed legal standards are designed as regulations defining the long-term direction of public finances in the Czech Republic. At the same time, however, they provide sufficient flexibility to implement the government's responsible economic policy. The proposal is also part of the transposition of the Council Directive on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States into national law, which should have already taken place at the end of 2013. The main objective of the adjustment is to achieve sound and sustainable public finances of the Czech Republic, which will provide sufficient room for decision-making in the implementation of budgetary and fiscal policy and ensure respect for international commitments, even in the case of normal fluctuations in the economic cycle. Proposals should also enhance the transparency and effectiveness of public finances. The focus of the proposed adjustment is on the introduction of new numerical fiscal rules, which are enshrined in their basis at the level of the constitutional law. The draft constitutional law also obliges public institutions to comply with the rules of transparency, efficiency, economy and efficiency of public finances in carrying out their activities. A specific rule is proposed for individual local authorities, which, in the interests of sound and sustainable public finances, will manage so that their individual total debts do not exceed the limit defined by the Act on budgetary liability rules. In the event of a lack of effectiveness of those rules, which is reflected in an increase in the debt of the public institutions sector, a rule is proposed regulating the level of the debt ratio of this sector to GDP. The draft constitutional law introduces a threshold of 55 per cent of GDP, with measures leading to a long-term sustainable state of public finances being applied in the public institutions sector. As with previous numerical fiscal rules, the specific form of the rule is defined in particular by the draft law on budgetary liability rules. It is also proposed by the Constitutional Law to set up a National Budgetary Board, which will act as an independent expert body in the area of fiscal and budgetary policy, to monitor the development of the management of the public institutions sector and, in particular, to comply with constitutional rules which it will also evaluate. At second reading, numerous amendments were read on the draft regulation, which I will comment on later. In principle, I believe that it is still desirable to adopt a draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility if a constitutional majority is reached. I would simply reiterate that we have undertaken to adopt this law by the end of 2013. We are the last in Europe and it is a shame when our public finances are in great shape and we are one of the least indebted countries in Europe, and the proposed ceiling is 55 percent, and we are somewhere around 35.5, so actually this is some kind of negative image in Europe that we do not have approved this law. So I really hope it happens today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. I am opening a debate in which Mr Miroslav Kalousek is the first to report. And here again, I ask the House for peace. My colleagues, my colleague, please. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Constitutional law on budgetary responsibility - how dignified that sounds. Parliament, which will adopt such a law, certainly wants to behave budgetaryly responsibly. And that law is really necessary, and so was our government. I spent almost two years talking across the political spectrum to agree on a compromise. This failed because the only compromise that colleagues were willing to make from the left was a law on budgetary responsibility, which would be called that, but which neither the government nor Parliament would commit to any budgetary responsibility. That means the content doesn't match the name. Of course, we could not present such a thing. What we have put forward did not pass through the Chamber of Deputies. Now, in this parliamentary term, we have an attempt number two, and on the table is exactly what has no value - a content that does not correspond to the title at all. We will have a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, which will enable the government to behave completely unaccounted for - not only this, but also the one in the next parliamentary term. It doesn't really limit her to anything. The Minister has already said so. We are an absolute debt somewhere between 35 and 40 percent depending on whether we count net or not. And the first signal is set to 55 percent. The other two three governments can do absolutely what they want, and the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility will not prevent them from doing so. There's no point in that. We have also been discussing this for quite a long time, so we have offered to the government more than a year ago that, at the moment when it joined the fiscal compact at European Union level, if it respects the head of three of this fiscal compact to which it has acceded, that is, the structural deficit will be reduced at a rate of at least half a percent a year, so we will support the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, because the government's behaviour will be in line with the name and fiscal compact to which the government has acceded. As far as I know, she has not yet found the courage to submit it for ratification. But she did. In such a case, we would also be willing to present this content that does not correspond to the name, because at least the government's behaviour would correspond to that name. But the government's behavior is exactly the opposite. It's probably a coincidence, but that's exactly the half-percent that, according to the fiscal compact, the government should consolidate its structural deficit, which makes the government's budget for 2017 worse by half-percent. This law of constitutional responsibility, even if it had already been adopted, does not prevent it from doing so. And she could do it another year. koneckonců all, in the medium term, it envisages a further deterioration in the structural deficit. And the governments that come after her could do that, too, and they would still be reliable in this proposal. We still have - only theoretically of course - our offer that if the government had actually committed itself to reducing the structural deficit at half a percent a year, we would be willing to support the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility. Otherwise, we can't, because if you approve it, nothing will happen except that you put in that window - as the Minister said it was a shame that our country doesn't yet have such a law, which is certainly true - but you put a can of caviar in that approved bill with a beautiful colourful sign, but there will be sardines in it, there won't be caviar in it. And we just can't support expired sardines for caviar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u5	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights now. A colleague, Stanislav Grospič, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u6	Good morning. First of all, if the government really thought it was an important program point and that it wanted to push it through, the benches behind me were full. You know that the constitutional law requires 120 votes for, and if I count correctly, at this point three members of the government are present. I am not talking about government members who are not Members. They cannot help except to speak in the debate and support this important standard. But the other ministers, who are Members at the same time, are not present. And answer for yourself the question of how this is a key point. [[9.20 hours]] The official name is the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility, which has been called a financial constitution in public space for years. And in order for that financial constitution to be, there must be debt brakes and other parameters in the Constitution. And the government here neither barefoot nor clothed nor naked has given us a draft constitutional law - I am talking about the original Houses of the Press 411 - which has about 500 words in which, if I paraphrase it, it is written: we will do well and we believe it. It's basically all there is. For the first time, political negotiations took place. I want to remind you that the financial constitution is the long-term programme objective of the Civil Democratic Party. It has already been said that we have tried to enforce this in the last parliamentary term as a constitutional law and with a debt brake in this constitutional law. We did not find support for the opposition at the time. That's legitimate, I'm not blaming anyone, I'm just saying we tried. We voted in this parliamentary term on the proposal tabled by a colleague from the top, who was very similar to the previous government proposal, to the government proposal from the previous term of office of the Chamber of Deputies. This proposal was rejected by the Chamber of Deputies. Again, it's legitimate, I don't blame anyone. We went to these political negotiations on the financial constitution with the fact that, in addition to the criticism that I have already said here that the proposal is essentially toothless, we have also brought forward a proposal for some solution and compromise so that we can find a constitutional majority in the Chamber of Deputies. We have formulated this view of compromise in the four fundamental amendments that I tabled on behalf of our club. We discussed them on the Committee on Budgets and one of them received support from the Committee on Budgets. It is the softest one, but we have said, if one of these four proposals finds support in the Chamber of Deputies, we are ready to deliver our opposition votes to the constitutional bill. Let me just remind you that we proposed, in two cases, that the threshold, when the debt brake and the other measures take place, would be reduced from 55 percent of the public's GDP-to-GDP debt to 50 per cent, and then we suggested that instead of the European wording, the government should, if so, submit a draft budget that leads to sustainable finance, so that it should be explicitly written that the government should present a surplus or a balanced budget. And if we look at the progress of this year's state budget implementation, it is not an idealistic or impossible target. The softest proposal that has been passed by the Committee on Budgets - we have found a majority here and we are really happy about it - in principle, it does only one thing. It does not change the parameters of the government proposal, it merely gives them from the ordinary law, which can be changed by any majority in the Chamber of Deputies, to the constitutional law. If this proposal goes through in the Chamber of Deputies, we will keep our word and political agreement and support the constitutional law as a whole. However, it must be said that, in particular, social democracy does not really want a financial institution. In the last parliamentary term, she has proved this by not being prepared to support compromise proposals in the opposition, and has long been blaming us for our realistic European policy. Let's remember a little bit of history. When we first came up with the idea of balanced state budgets or financial institutions, many laughed. Then many refused. Then, suddenly, in Europe, within the framework of a debate within the European Union, something could be called an obligation for the Member States to adopt a financial constitution. And our Social Democrats, because they belong to the core, and that is the main point of their European policy, that means being among those who have the majority, and it doesn't really matter what the majority says, so they said: yes, that's it, now we're going to sign up for it. But those are mere words. Today, the vote will show whether those words mean it or not, they're just words that are easy to say, but no one's supposed to do it. I would like to remind - and I am sure that this will also be discussed by Mr Vilímec, who will formulate in his amendment the concerns of cities and municipalities about unconstitutional interventions in self-government. In fact, if the financial constitution fails and the possibility of withholding money from the budgetary determination of taxes will be in a mere ordinary law, it is clearly unconstitutional. And I say to all those who are prepared to vote in favour that a constitutional complaint will be filed and will be successful. It will not be filed because the opposition does not like it, but it will be filed because we want to defend the interests of self-government. And there are representatives of all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies at the head of the government. So the reason for this possible constitutional complaint is not that the opposition has not enforced its own, but that there is an attempt to restrict ordinary constitutional rights to self-government by law. I'm saying this in advance so that someone doesn't say yes, if we did, maybe we wouldn't support it. That is exactly how it is, and I am sure that my colleague, Vilímec, will give a more precise wording to the position of the Union of Cities and Municipalities and possibly other organisations. Now, let me ask you, I've had a bad time writing those amendments, so there's been a written mistake, so let me read two legislative technical corrections to this press. According to the Rules of Procedure, Section 95 (1) (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall apply. 2 I propose a legislative technical correction, in this case a written error, so that in the amendment under point C, the House's press 4849, point 1 (a). (d) replaces number 50 with number 55. The same is true of Amendment D, House document 4850, when again in point 1 (a). (d) replaces number 50 with number 55. If anyone reads the screen recording from my performance when I justified these amendments at second reading, they must clearly confirm that this is a written error. I was talking about two amendments, where the limit is 50, and two amendments, where the limit is 55. In these two amendments, the number appears twice and in one place the number 50 was left by mistake during the transcript, so it certainly meets the prerequisites of legislative technical corrections. The Committee on Budgets supported the amendment under letter D, knowing that it must be read and approved by legislative technical corrections, because otherwise the amendment would contain two limits, and that makes no sense. So then I will ask the rapporteur to vote on this before the other amendments. I want to repeat - we went to the very limit of what we can support on the issue of the financial constitution. The program concession is quite large. Yet we did it knowing it was better if we had a financial institution than we wouldn't have it. At the time that the amendment does not pass, neither A nor B nor C nor D, which has the greatest chance thanks to the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, we will, of course, vote against the draft financial constitution, because in that case it is no longer a financial constitution, but it is only a heading. The favourite argument in the last parliamentary term was that the financial constitution was a trap for the next government. In this case, it doesn't apply. So if anyone would like to argue that in adopting a financial constitution with a relatively high number of 55 percent of GDP, they are not talking about the next parliamentary term at all and they are not using a true argument. [[Is it a trap?]] It's not a trap for the next government. I don't even think it's a trap for the next government. And if those governments manage, it's just gonna stay as insurance in our Constitution, in our constitutional order, and it's not gonna be used. If there are governments that are budgetaryly irresponsible, then we can say that we have set the brake for which the state will pull at the moment if that happens. This is the whole position of the Civic Democratic Party MP. Although we are an opposition party that very often criticizes this government's proposals, we are offering a compromise on this point and we are ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, with priority rights, Mr Václav Votava. A colleague, Grospič, will be ready. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I must fundamentally reject what Mr Stanjura said that social democracy does not want the financial constitution to be approved. This is nonsense, my colleague, through the President. I think that social democracy in the government, in the coalition government, is treating the whole coalition government in a way that it really is budgetaryly responsible. This is also the result of the government, which corresponds to the deficit reduction, which corresponds to the debt reduction of the Czech Republic. So, co-worker, it's total, total nonsense. [[9.30 hours]] If you are talking about the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, yes, an amendment by the Civic Democratic Party, which gives further parameters to the debt brake, has been voted out in the Committee on Budgets. She's already in the constitutional law, but she's extending it to the package of measures that the government is obliged to take, and so on. Our opinion is that these parameters simply do not belong to the constitutional law. The Constitutional Act is to be general and the parameters belong to the ordinary law. And the standard law is the rules on budgetary responsibility. There's a practical reason. Of course, we are obliged to implement European regulations, even with regard to fiscal policy. And e.g. fiscal compact will be renegotiated in 2018, some parameters may change. Then, of course, if these measures are taken so hard in the constitutional law, it is, of course, difficult to implement European regulations, European directives, European legislation. So that's one of the reasons. But once again, constitutional law only includes general principles, not enlargement, as the Civil Democratic Party suggests. If the Civil Democratic Party amendment fails, we will, of course, support the constitutional proposal, as the Government has put it in the Chamber of Deputies, as approved by the Government. However, if this amendment by the Civil Democratic Party passes, then we cannot support this Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u9	Thank you. This was a colleague of Václav Votava. Now, Mr Stanjura's point of fact, and Mr Grospič is still prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u10	Sometimes it's nice that the speaker actually doesn't want to be right about his opponent. The only parameter in our amendment is 55 per cent against GDP, and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, the rapporteur, says: it is already there. So we don't change any parameters, there's only one parameter. Yes, there are measures, not parameters, because in your submission, if this were to pass as the Social Democrats say, it is true that the rules of budgeting by ordinary law will be laid down at the founding of 55 percent. And for example, I can imagine a government headed by a social democracy that says: we have to spend even more, and our cure will be a larger state budget deficit because we think it's the right thing to do. You are long-term supporters - and I respect that - of expansionary budget spending. It is the long-term political position of all social democratic parties in Europe. So if it's not in the Constitution, it's actually worthless, because a normal majority actually determines what to do when debt is at 55 percent. And I was quite amused by the words about how the Social Democrats are budgetaryly responsible. I would quote the Minister of Finance, not opposition policy: "If it were up to me, a balanced state budget is proposed next year. But thanks to the waste of the CSSD and the KDU, the deficit must be 60 billion, that's a coalition match. But if it were for the Treasury Secretary, it wouldn't be less than 60 billion, but zero." And at the same time, the one who's gonna push for the 60 billion. a larger deficit, says: "You can see how budgetaryly responsible we are. " And I say, I have not once used the words of any opposition policy, but merely quoted the views and expressions of coalition or government politicians. So first, clear it up at home, in the government, and then you can protest. Because when the opposition quotes the government minister, the government minister, it is very difficult to say the opposition, but that is such opposition rhetoric, the truth is different. That's just a quote, and we're not introducing any new parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u11	Thank you. Mr Kalousek's point of fact, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u12	Thank you. I merely gave a brief speech to the rapporteur when he said that the wording must be in the ordinary law, not in constitutional law. Honestly, with all due respect, even if the amendment of the ODS colleagues was adopted, the constitutional law is still rather toothless. But at least somewhere in the distance, the roll-stop would have been after all. If this is not the case in the constitutional law, it will be about the same as the spending limits in the budgetary rules of the Republic. We also put those there once with the fact that when incomes are higher, the deficit is reduced, expenditures do not decrease. And I don't remember the only socialist government that would keep it, and every year, it wouldn't shift the spending limits and change. The only governments that respected the spending limits were the governments of Nečasův and Topolánkův. If it were in the ordinary law, it would be exactly the same as spending limits, which means, it really doesn't have any value, it's just a sticker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u13	Thus, the rapporteur's factual point, the factual point made by Mr Fiala. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to - I don't want to argue with my colleague Stanjura, with all due respect, about what a parameter is. I think the basic parameter is 55 percent for the debt service, but the other parameters are, of course, the measures, so I see it. This may not be quite the case, but that is what I meant, my colleague, through Mr President. If I said parameters, other parameters, I meant, of course, the measures that result from the activation of the debt brake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u15	Thank you. My colleague Fiala also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u16	Thank you. I just wanted to question the rapporteur's question that our Constitution contains only principles and that the constitutional law should contain only principles. Of course, that's not true. With a simple look at the Constitution, you will find that it prescribes things very specifically including numbers, perhaps it prescribes exactly what elections are supposed to look like or what an electoral mechanism is meant to be in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, which some constitutions do not prescribe. Our Constitution may also specify the number of citizens needed to propose a candidate for the President of the Republic and other things. There are absolutely specific figures, absolutely specific data that could be dealt with by ordinary laws, but they are not, because the constitutional definition is simply more serious and more substantial. So there is no problem and it does not contradict any of the principles of the Constitution and the establishment of the Constitutional Rules, so that we now insert the figures in the constitutional law, as suggested by the chairman of our MP Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u17	Thank you for using the time to make a point of fact. Now with proper application by Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Jiří Dolejš will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, dear colleagues, I will be quite brief. It is no secret that I am no supporter of the bill on the financial constitution, not even of its accompanying law, that is, the law which should therefore implement this law in practice, the constitutional law that we have under press number 411. It is precisely because I think that the 411 print goes beyond the current valid Constitution of the Czech Republic and the 412 printing also and that it will in practice raise a number of questions that will not allow the effective functioning and drawing of public finances and the prevention of debt brakes, whether in relation to government institutions or institutions of local authorities, whether they are regions or municipalities, but, on the contrary, this will make the situation very difficult. We also need to remember a little bit in this context, and it would be good when these things and incentives were born within the European Union. It was at a time of the Great Depression in 2008 and the following, and they were gradually losing meaning in terms of their factual feasibility and the ability of governments to meet them. So in this case, I think that both of these laws are suffering from deep contradictions that, unfortunately, cannot be removed by third reading. [[9.40 hours]] However, I think that these things are so serious that they will not help to calm down or stabilise the economic aspect of the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, this will depend on whether there will be a boom or whether there will be an economic crisis and will be influenced by completely different parameters or, for example, by the policies of the Czech National Bank. From this point of view, I would like to reiterate and highlight the contradiction between the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the one hand, and the law to implement it by implementing law. From this point of view, I think that it is not possible for anyone to think a little logically about it to support the proposed bills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u19	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. Mr. Jiří Dolejš, with proper application, will now be prepared by colleague Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u20	Thank you for the floor. We've been there. We'll vote today. The question is whether supporters or opponents are promising themselves something that isn't even real. The fact is that debt brakes may have been a topic in Europe for more than 15 years, and that in that time the issue has been recognised both by certain developments but also by specific practice of the debt crisis in Europe. And it has been confirmed to what extent this instrument has, or has no meaning, how enforceable it is. And what we have on the table, let's face it... And the general ambition of the government coalition, here I think it was from the Minister's mouth, is to be in a club of those who have at least formally approved such an instrument. It's a question of what's good for us. Because, of course, if we have applied to a European fiscal compact, there are specific mechanisms, but different types of mechanisms, where structural deficits also play a role. We will certainly enjoy these debates when we discuss the draft state budget at first reading. And it is confirmed that to pin all hopes on just one Maastricht criterion, which is therefore the share of debt in GDP - I will remind you that the Maastricht criterion speaks of 60 percent - it is to some extent positive that a greater part of the countries of the European Union do not fully meet this criterion, but that the sanctions should therefore be applied to it, and that these sanctions will make the entire European Union and, in particular, the euro area countries financially healthy, will be directly stifling with health and will basically be a model for the rest of the world. Is that what's going on? It's not. When you look at at at least the southern wing of the European Union, the euro area, what is in Italy, Portugal, Spain, certainly does not say that there is any fiscal health. So what good is this kind of debt brake anyway? I am simply absent, and I do not want to blame only the Czech Republic and the current Czech government, but overall in the millions of various brakes and other instruments that have become fashionable in Europe, there is a debate that would evaluate the problem I am talking about. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. We will now address the fundamental problem, and that the government coalition, rather than the debate, decided to bring it to a certain end, I do not know how victorious, but realizes that it does not have a constitutional majority available and therefore hunts in opposition ranks. And by that I would say it's not as conceptual as the ideological debate, if somehow the happiness, salvation, and fiscal health are more likely to come from those political parts where they are travelling for the greatest strangulation possible. Once again, we will undoubtedly come back to this over the draft state budget, where it is said that we could have already balanced the budget. I remember the different terms that were mentioned here, when the budget got into the zero balance. The dates for the Topolánkův, the Nečasův government, fell. Under this government, I must say, this has shifted in political diction beyond the horizon of her mandate. But paradoxically, this year may be close, but not planned, which exposes a certain business card to the quality of the budgeting process. Because when it happens to us by mistake, it probably doesn't say that we use the budget as an active instrument of economic policy. So it's a situation. There's a little bit of a constitutional debate going on in this situation. This was mentioned by a previous speaker, a colleague of Grospič. And perhaps this is an expression of the fact that the IDA, which discussed this matter, had to interrupt and we are at a stage where this key body for the evaluation of constitutionality did not give us an opinion. There are other aspects. They were also mentioned in the previous parliamentary term. To what extent possible, I stress in the Czech relations current, the possible burden falls on the part of that block of public finances, namely territorial budgets. They are very afraid of restricting the provision of public health services, i.e. representatives of health insurance companies. That, in turn, is why it was not negotiated by a health committee that was unable to give an opinion on this. And there are a number of such flaws in the beauty of the negotiation process. So there's a question of what to do with it. So if formally for some superficial and not very durable artistic impression, we'll stick it to a very soft criterion of 55 percent. I remind you that we are currently at 49 percent and that, therefore, to activate this mechanism is not exactly a dramatic requirement. But it's even a question from my point of view whether to build it like that. Whether to build it like this, narrow it down to just this one simple criterion. Let's say that we exhibit some budgetary parameters, so we are essentially quite different from the Slovak Republic, which did not go into such dramatic cuts at a time when colleagues ruled the right wall and showed a minor fall. Now that we have come to life and we are celebrating the achievements of this government - I do not know how guilty - and again the Slovak Republic has another, i.e. better, I mean better, better economic performance indicators. I feel like we're just passing through on the essence, and that's a better budget policy for the government. One side narrows it down to crossing it out to happiness. The other will choose a certain ecvilibristy, which is borne by a certain wave of recovery, which the government has not caused much, did not contribute to it. And in this field, we're supposed to approve an instrument that reminds me of the attempts of the legendary Prince Potěmkin when the passing Tsarina Kateřina wanted to see what Russia's open country looks like, and from the umakart, or from what it was built there, they built some kind of visual symbols of success. I don't think we need a visual symbol of success. And what I'm essentially saying in a nutshell is why the position of the KSČM faction is negative in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u21	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u22	Those are paradoxes. But I really must say that Members under the KSČM understand what Potěmkinův's villages are. They've been building them here for decades. So there's no reason not to believe when communists describe what Potěmkinův's villages are when they have years of experience with it. I just want to say that my colleague Dolejš misinterprets our policy. We're not talking about scratching at all. If we want to limit something, useless operating expenses and the money to invest in motorways, schools, pensions, etc. I know it's simple, it's good to hear, but there's no way it's true. I fully respect that the communists have rejected the financial constitution for a long time. I also mean that you have not created an amendment. You and that principle seem wrong. That's your position. It doesn't bother us. It doesn't surprise us. [[9.50 hours]] But the basics. If I could just use the arguments that we have it lower now and if we ever need it. But you're questioning the principle of insurance. Because the debt brake is actually some kind of insurance, so we can pull it off. We can also say, "There haven't been floods here for a hundred years, why do we have to insure ourselves against the floods?" Why do we have to take flood control measures? It's because you're creating some kind of prevention and trying to minimize future risks. And basically, the financial constitution is also insurance against budgetaryly irresponsible governments. That's all. I agree that we cannot narrow the debate on the economy to one single parameter, whatever it is. Colleagues especially from the left side of the spectrum are happy to say that the Slovak economy has fallen less or has been more successful in years of economic crisis than ours. Well, in GDP, yes, but for me personally, a much more crucial parameter is the level of unemployment. The number of people who find work. So compare unemployment rates in Slovakia and the Czech Republic in all years since 2008. We've been moving around in the top six for years. Sometimes we're second, sometimes we're first, sometimes we're sixth. Compare it to your colleagues. I didn't bring up international examples here. But you just used one single parameter, and that GDP, raising it by one percent is no problem. I'll just send 40 billion. I have one percent of GDP up. [[unintelligible]] Isn't the number of unemployed, for example, a much more important parameter?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u23	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u24	Thank you for the floor. To the President of the ODS club through Mr President: That your mouth does not hurt you, my colleague! It doesn't hurt. What would you privatize if only Potěmkinův's villages were here? [[Strong applause from KSČM benches.]] I'm just saying, to this day, there are a number of unsolved cases from that dark period of privatization. Even so unsolved, citizens are very welcome to our new proposal for indeterminate crimes during the privatisation period. And I wonder how you'll stand up to it. Please, at least a little objectivity in assessing the past and judging history would be nice. You know, the old joke, what was the greatest crime in communism? Well, they've only left property here for 20 years! And then Potěmkinův's modern-day village had to be built. Please, let's get a little more relevant to these things. I think the question of privatization, the question of stealing what was here, wasn't just the paundek villages that were being stolen, even the dog wouldn't have barked after that. You didn't care, or you wouldn't care, and your friends just paundekle them, just Potěmkinův's village. Huge property was created here! What have you created in that time? Answer me that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u25	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. One more factual comment from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Then a colleague of Černoch. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u26	So in the debate on the financial constitution, we have come to the economic achievements of the communist era. I do not understand this, some members of the government coalition also applaud, so we always need to look at some process at the beginning and at the end. And I don't want to talk today and name those dead, locked up, those who were forced or forced to emigrate or wanted to emigrate. I will not recall the law on the unlawfulness of the Communist regime, which adopted the democratic Parliament of the Czech Republic and which clearly and correctly named the period from February 1948 to 1989. But where was Czechoslovakia in 1948 in international comparison and where was it in 1989? My mouth doesn't hurt. I will always criticize the period of non-freedom, crimes, and also economic crimes. You can't be mad. And don't paint our past here pink. I don't miss queues for everything! I really don't. And many have forgotten, and perhaps one day a year would be enough to have an economic level from the communism era to remember. And they weren't trying to rewrite history. Neither political nor economic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now two factual points by Mr Kováčik and Mrs Lorencová. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u28	I would hate, colleagues, for us to start reaching out here again about things that I think some of them are solved and some are waiting for a solution. I just want to remind you that during the privatization period, citizens see what was built, what was sometimes successful, was something like this, but what was stolen here when the lights went out and so-called economy was before the law. And about the dead, you know, I could also remember hundreds, maybe thousands of suicides for social reasons. I could also remind you of the long lines in quotes at the Labor Office. Because it's nice that we have something to remember, that is, a chance to have. But many of us, of our fellow citizens, aren't up to it. Because they either have a job that is very poorly paid, below the human dignity limit, it is not remuneration for a job actually done, or that work in some regions in particular, and in your, my colleague, through the President, Mr Stanjur, in particular, has been looking for wasteful years. And as for the special privatisation in your region, we still have some sort of committee of inquiry, virtually. a point that we don't quite have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u29	Thank you. Now, the factual remark made by my colleague Jana Lorencová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I just want to remind President Stanjur that they certainly had reason and ground for adopting laws that allowed this huge privatisation and prepared it. So let me remind myself of the laws that covered up the crime that we all felt. Every citizen in this country knew it was robbing, that it was a huge raid on each of the taxpayers' pockets. When you adopted laws concerning alcohol, which involved light fuel oils versus diesel. That was about overvalued stones. The laws that actually covered up the huge one I'm not afraid to say the crime that's been committed here on every taxpayer's property! Every single taxpayer! I wonder what courage you're performing with here today. I'm surprised!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u31	I thank my colleague Jana Lorencová and now, with proper application, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u32	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will return to the subject of the fiscal brake and justify the amendment to the Dawn Club, which we will vote under letter C. We fully agree that the Czech Republic needs a constitutional anchor leading to higher budgetary responsibility. However, we have a reasonable concern that the fiscal brakes, if activated, will only lead to blunt tax increases. That is the easiest solution for every government. Why look for painful savings, why try to save when taxes can be raised? In order to prevent this, we propose to add to the Parliamentary press 412 the condition that the government, within the framework of the measures it is implementing, must not propose raising income taxes after the fiscal brake mechanism is launched. We are primarily based on the fact that the economy of the state, which is so indebted that it is necessary for it to start a fiscal brake mechanism, is in no way able to bear further tax increases. While raising the tax rate could increase collection in the short term, it will only lead to a reduction in economic activity in the long term, and thus a decrease in tax collection. At such a time, raising taxes could only be a blow to the economy. [[10.00 hours]] I repeat, with this amendment, we want to achieve that, in the event of the activation of the fiscal constitution, the government will not go to the simplest step that is really, and that word is appropriate, blunt tax increases. On the contrary, the government is to implement corrective structural steps that will lead to a sustainable healthy development of public finances in the long term. At the same time, I would like to declare that this amendment is without prejudice to the general competence of the Government to increase income taxes and that the restrictions resulting from this proposal apply only to the actions of the government imposed by fiscal brakes. Finally, as has already been said here, it is a certain insurance policy and I think it can be compared a little bit to the current migration crisis and problem. It's not a problem that may be a burden today, but it can be a burden in a few years. You need to be ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u33	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's factual point with priority rights. Then I perceive the application of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club and then of my colleague Vilímca. Please, rapporteur. Before I give you my word, I beg my colleagues and colleagues to remain calm! We are discussing the draft constitutional law and I would like those who are discussing another subject to discuss it in the foyer. I mean it from the left to the right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am koukat at my colleague Černoch, so he seems to have realized that he was ahead of himself because we are discussing press 411 and his amendment concerns the printing of 412 rules. Just so it doesn't confuse other colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u35	Now, then, a colleague of Mr. Vilímec, with a factual view. With a proper application, in that case a priority right. [[Member Laudat preferred Member Vilímc.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u36	Mr Vice-President, I thank my colleague Laudát. I have not tabled amendments to the press that we are discussing. I've been serving two other prints. When I served them, I served them with faith, and I also promised that I would be able to withdraw the proposal when we discussed the other two prints, because I assumed that the financial constitution would be approved. I understand today that it's probably different. For one thing, I do not know what the participation of the members of the government coalition is at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, but I have understood from the President's speech of the Committee on Budgets that no constitution will actually be approved, because, of course, at the moment when the most compromise proposal that we have made is not approved, the Government Coalition cannot count on the citizens' Democratic Party delivering any votes in this case. So unfortunately, I have to speak in the debate now, not in the next two thousand, because what I warned about will happen. This concerns, above all, the local authorities, because I have also announced at the House's meeting, as well as at the budget committee, that if the financial constitution, the constitution on budgetary responsibility, is not approved, and there will be an attempt to push through the ordinary law of detention, for example, legally guaranteed income in the case of budgets of municipalities and regions, it is clearly unconstitutional. That is what colleague Stanjura was talking about today. I am not an interpreter of the opinions of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, yet I think it is necessary for at least an elevator to be heard here from the press release of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, as well as from the letter addressed by the Union of Towns and Municipalities to the members and members of the Committee on Budgets. I would like to quote here that the Union of Towns and Municipalities really considers it unconstitutional if Members wanted to introduce restrictions on municipalities by ordinary, not by the government presented by the constitutional law. I would also like to mention one thing at the restaurant account. If she passes, and she probably doesn't pass, but if she theoretically passes the constitution in the government's proposed wording, then what does the government say? If we get to the 55 percent limit, we'll sort of do something. Otherwise, there is no concrete measure that the government would have to comply with constitutional law. But in the case of municipalities, it's different. The municipalities, regardless of whether or not even the region, whether the debt line will be 55 % or 30 % or 35 %, will have to comply with the very restrictive measures set up in their amendmentStanjura either from 2018, or from 2020. I don't want to discuss it right now, it's very hard on the municipalities, less towards the regions. But I would like to point out to the Minister of Finance that when he goes to the financial conference, if he is going there in November, he certainly received an invitation that, while he announced a year ago that municipalities and cities are best managed from the entire segment of public finances, and we agree on that, that is why they cannot be added, as the regions have been given, because it is more complicated there, so he will have to add that municipalities and cities manage best, because we have not added an increase in VAT, so we have prepared another gift for you, which can really bring problems for many municipalities. I just want it to be said here that according to information from the Ministry of Finance, not according to information from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, a parameter of 60 per cent of the debt to the annual income set by the ordinary law does not meet 445 municipalities today. They are not small municipalities, they are also large statutory cities, which have both 80 and 100 percent of the amount of debt against annual income. That means it's not a marginal issue, it's not a trivial matter, and the mayors disagree. Yet they perceive that the budgets of municipalities, the budgets of local authorities must somehow also breathe, let's say, because they are part of public finances and with the state. But not in a way that the state may approve a constitution where there will be nothing at all, but it will say that while we, if the debt increases to 55 percent, need not do anything, we are not bound by anything, no constitution, so we will hold 5% to the municipalities and will have to take very restrictive measures. I am therefore speaking to announce this, so that those who have experience in municipal policy know that it is not such a simple matter to meet the conditions which are normally prepared by law, and that if this becomes a common law, not a constitutional one, the Minister of Finance or the Government can expect the municipalities, or the Union of Towns and Municipalities to make a constitutional complaint. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u37	I thank Mr Vilímc. Let's keep going. Mr. František Laudát has applied. In that case, I have no further application for the debate, but in the debate, the Minister of Finance, when I could not end the debate, I still have in the debate, Mr Vice-President of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u38	Thank you. Just a few words for the previous speaker. To the municipalities. We tried, so the state will certainly manage better this year than the municipalities, it doesn't really apply anymore. I understand. The municipalities live on taxpayers' money and European money, and then we also have two municipalities, which I think are insolvent, and then, of course, it falls back on the state. So that's why I think the municipalities should definitely belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u39	Thank you, now a factual comment from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u40	Just to clarify, because I don't think the Minister of Finance has fully understood what we're proposing. We say: If the limitations of municipalities in the Constitution, in the Constitutional Law, that's okay. Unless, of course, he's in the Constitution, in the Constitutional Law, we think it's a violation of the constitutional right to self-government. Our amendment does not aim to remove municipalities from the debt brake, but only in the case of ordinary law, because there we see a conflict with the Constitution. Let's just get this straight. So we also proposed in the previous government, in the last parliamentary term, that the debt brake should also apply to self-government. So a dispute or rather a concern or our warning: If it is not in the Constitution, the possibility of restricting the indebted municipalities to participate in 100 per cent of the budgetary determination of taxes, it is in conflict with the Constitution. If it's in that constitutional law, we're ready to vote for it, and it's okay. So just an explanation of the amendment and our approach to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u41	Thank you. I said, who else in the debate? If no one, I will conclude the debate at the third reading. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? And the rapporteurs of the other committees, not the guarantees? It's not like that. In that case, I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. I always ask for the Minister of Finance's opinion. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The amendments that we will be voting on were tabled at plenary, i.e. at second reading, were therefore expressed by the guarantee committee, i.e. the Committee on Budgets. I shall therefore communicate the opinions of the Committee on Budgets. No motion to dismiss has been filed, so we will not vote on it. In short, I would like to introduce you to the voting procedure, which is not complicated, which has been adopted or proposed by the Committee on Budgets. We will first vote on legislative technical adjustments, as Mr Stanjura has read them, and then we would vote on D2, i.e. a change in the duration of effectiveness. It is absolutely identical to the designs A2, B2 and C2, i.e. If we approve D2, there's no need to vote on the remaining three. Then we would vote gradually on the amendments by Mr Stanjura, who are now moving from the rules of budgetary responsibility of the measures into that constitutional law, in an alternative way. It changes there at some levels of the debt brake. If one of them is approved, then, of course, there is no need to vote on others. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole. I'm asking if there's consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u43	Okay. You've heard the motion for a voting procedure. Does anyone have any comment on that? It's not like that. Before we vote, I'm still saying that my colleague Karamazov has a replacement card number 69. We will now vote on the procedure for voting by the rapporteur, which no one has questioned. I have begun the vote on order number 28 and I ask who is in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 28, of the 172 present for 166, against no one. The procedure has been approved, we can follow it. rapporteur, first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u44	We would now vote on legislative technical amendments, as Mr Stanjura has put them. The opinion shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u45	I have begun voting number 29 and I ask who is in favour of these legislative technical amendments. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 29, of the 173 present for 170, against no one. Legally, the technical modifications have been approved. We can continue, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u46	Then we will not vote on A2, B2 and C2. We would now vote on Amendment A1, which is the proposal of Mr Stanjura. Sorry, D2, which is a change in the effectiveness of the 2016 Act to 2017. That's where the position is consistent. If it is adopted, there will be no votes A2, B2 and C2. I said it wrong before, I'm so sorry. The opinion shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u47	I've started voting number 30, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30, from the presence of 174 for 140, against no one. The motion was accepted. Before we go any further, Mr rapporteur - Mrs Kailová votes with a replacement card number 71. Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u48	We would now vote on Amendment A1, which is Mr Stanjura's amendment. The position of the guarantee committee is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u49	I've started voting number 31 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 31, from 175 present for 40, against 90. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u50	We would now vote on the second amendment by Mr Stanjura under letter B1. The position is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u51	I've started voting number 32 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 32, 175 for 43, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u52	We will now vote on the proposal of Mr Stanjura's C1 colleague. The position is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u53	I've started the vote on order number 33 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 33, from 175 in favour of 43, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u54	We would now vote on the fourth amendment by Mr Stanjura under D1. Here I am obliged to express the position of the guarantee committee, which is agreed, even if my position is different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u55	I've started voting number 34 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 34, from the presence of 174 for 95, against 33. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u56	This has exhausted all the proposals and we should vote on the draft constitutional law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u57	Yes, thank you. Since all the proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. This is a constitutional law, a three-fifths majority of all Members are needed. The number of 120 is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, the Chamber's press 411, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I've started voting number 35 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 35, from 171 Members present for 75, against 34. The motion was not accepted. I note that the draft constitutional law has not been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 166. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Let's continue with item 167. The Minister and the rapporteur shall remain in place. Before the next point starts, the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek claims priority. Mr President, before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace. I ask my colleagues to bring the debates that are not related to the upcoming point into the foyer! In order for individual Members to be able to make their proposals in peace, where appropriate, their speeches. [[The O.R.'s down.]] Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u58	I just wanted to say that it turned out the way it always did when somebody's trying to have a longer-term budgetary responsibility and a vision. But we don't have to despair, because the experiment that lay in front of us on the bench was really just an empty shell. It might have looked pretty marketing that we had a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, but anyone who wanted to look under that lid would just laugh and we would be embarrassed. The proposal really was not a real budgetary responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-001-166.u59	Thank you. So let's continue with the point.
