ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u1	202. Oral inhalation First, an interview with the Prime Minister. The first intervention is the interpelling Mrs Strnadlová on cooperation with Iran. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u2	Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, your government has placed great emphasis on economic diplomacy and strengthening the export possibilities of Czech companies since the beginning of its mandate. For example, our Republic is actively involved in China's Silk Road renewal project. At present, one of the largest countries in the Middle East - Iran - is also economically open. What do you think the Czech Republic has in place in the huge Iranian market? And what are your general perspectives for cooperation between the Czech Republic and Iran? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. We have caught up with the loss of the short question asked by Mrs Strnadlová. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u4	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Let me also respond very briefly to the issue of cooperation with Iran. What I think is crucial and what is actually the signal and trigger mechanism for intensifying our communication with Iran, with Iranian representatives, is the signing of an agreement on Iran's nuclear programme. This agreement was signed on 16 January this year. So Iranian time was January 17th. Following the signing of the agreement on Iran's nuclear programme last July and subsequent confirmation by the International Atomic Energy Agency in mid-December last year that Iran met the requirements of the agreement with the superpowers, the penalty measures were terminated. Sunday, 17 January this year, this became the day on which this agreement was implemented for Iran. This means that the release of many years of sanctions begins. I would like to mention that the Czech Republic focused more intensive attention on strengthening its relationship with Iran when it became clear that the negotiations were going well. We sent a delegation to Iran led by Secretary of State Lubomír Zaorálek. Already part of his delegation, which visited Iran before this formal abolition of sanctions, was also a business delegation. I am very pleased that the meeting of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Iran, which after many years was actually the first visit of such a high-ranking representative of the Czech Republic in Iran, could also be followed by a visit of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, who was in Iran on 16 to 19 January this year. This was exactly when, as I described, these sanctions were lifted and the agreement on Iran's nuclear programme was finally signed. I believe that the visit of Minister Mládek to Iran was very well timed. I am also convinced that Minister Mládek used it very intensively. He met with his partners in the fields of industry, trade, mines, energy, oil and gas, finance, nuclear security, transport infrastructure and vice president of economic affairs. During his visit, Minister Mládek signed an agreement on economic cooperation, which includes the establishment of a Joint Commission, which should discuss new possibilities and projects of cooperation between the Czech Republic and Iran. An agreement on investment protection is being completed, which is still missing from our entrepreneurs. Here I think it is important that this agreement be concluded as soon as possible. Great opportunities have also been identified in the areas of cooperation in health, banking, services, education, research, nuclear safety, aviation as well as in the defence industry. What is interesting is to use cooperation to penetrate the surrounding markets, such as Afghanistan or Iraq. The surrounding markets include an area of about 400 million inhabitants. Firms such as Škoda, Zetor and others have a long tradition in Iran, and this tradition can now be followed by other current business cases. One of the current business cases was e.g. new contract for tractor manufacturers Zetor. Czech companies are offered here the opportunity to establish previous contacts. It is also, of course, possible to expect that, if improving relations between Iran, the European Union will continue in this way, that Iran with its rich deposits of both oil and gas could contribute to the diversification of oil and gas resources for the whole of Europe. And, of course, there are other sources of mineral resources that could be very interesting from the point of view of Europe. Likewise, Iran may undoubtedly have an interest in investing in the development of transport infrastructure, including railway infrastructure. And even here there is room for activities of Czech companies. I would like to assure you that the Czech Government naturally follows these new possibilities very closely in terms of strengthening the Czech expert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u5	Mr. Prime Minister, if you'll just give me some follow-up answers. Thank you. Mrs Strnadlová, if she is interested in an additional question. He's not interested. Thank you. That settles the interpelation. The second interviewer is Mr Robin Böhnisch on the EIA. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. vážený Prime Minister, last year and under noticeable pressure from the European Commission, the Czech Parliament adopted an amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. In any case, the amendment is a step forward, it certainly confirms the cultural role of our country's membership in the European Union, even in the case of our legislation. However, what the EIA amendment did not respond well is whether the EIA opinions issued prior to the entry into force of this amendment will remain valid, i.e. before 1 April 2015. It seems that the interpretation of the Czech party and the interpretation of the European Commission are different in this area. For us, this is currently a potential risk of further delaying some important infrastructure structures, especially transport. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether the government sees this problem, how it is opposed to it, or how it intends to address it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u7	I thank Mr Robin Böhnisch and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will answer this difficult question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a really complicated problem. First of all, I see the topic of the EIA as about the most important topic for our debate with the European Commission in 2016. I think that apart from the migration crisis, which will certainly not be the subject of this year alone, it is the most serious issue that we will have to deal with repeatedly in Europe. Let me introduce you very briefly to the current situation. Firstly, I would like to say that the Czech Republic is also in a unique position, because no other European country has as old an EIA as my Czech Republic, so that we have been told repeatedly by the European Commission that this is a completely unique case. Probably in no other country did what happened to us, that 15 years ago, ten or fifteen years ago, went on an environmental impact assessment, and then nothing was built. I have to say that we can blame this on the European Commission, and on a number of things, the European Commission is wrong, but we have one problem on the Czech side, and that is the inability to build, which has turned out to be absolutely delicious here, because we are therefore in an absurd situation where we have an old EIA, according to the old law, issued before we joined the European Union. We have it on 64 key transport projects in the Czech Republic and the 64 projects are planned for more than 15 years and we have not been able to reach the stage where the constructions would be built. This is one big problem that we have, which at this point cannot be opposed to the European Commission, because that is our internal problem. The second internal problem that we have and which complicates the situation is the fact that the Czech Republic did not have our Environmental Impact Assessment Act harmonised with European rules in the last decade and this harmonisation did not take place until last year. This means that only since 2015 we have the EIA Act in accordance with European rules and it is possible to follow it and then we are sure that it will not be called into question back from Brusel. This is another big problem, and I am afraid that the tactic that the previous governments have taken into account, that they have tried to ignore the problem, that they have felt that they will sit it out, has not proved to be right, because it has caught up with us, and it has caught up with us at the least appropriate moment when we need to start drawing on other European funds, and in order to exhaust them, we need to build the constructions that we need, and that is, in large part, the 64 buildings that are the subject of negotiations with the European Commission today. On January 25, a meeting of economic ministers came together specifically on this subject, we had representatives of social partners there, we agreed to coordinate the procedures of individual state institutions. Other technical meetings with the European Commission will take place on 3 February this year. I suppose I will also discuss this on the outskirts of the European Council, which I will attend in the middle of February this year in Brussels. At this point, we need to find a compromise agreement. Without the conclusion of a compromise agreement or without a new assessment of the EIA, it will be very risky to implement these transport projects and will also be very risky from national sources. It may threaten paralysis of the building season 2016 to 2017. It is therefore crucial to prepare the next procedure so that we know exactly what time horizon we are able to build and build the 64 buildings, that is, where we really need to compromise with the European Commission, so that it is not necessary to open the existing decisions that have been adopted under the construction law and where it will therefore be possible to issue a verification opinion by the Czech Ministry of Environment. The government's aim is to find an agreement with the European Commission that would enable us to make progress with the 64 projects that are ready to use this year's construction season, to use the construction season next year and to implement these projects. This is the fundamental objective of our negotiations in Europe. At the moment, it was carried out at technical official level. I assume that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment will now be more intensively involved in the negotiations, and I am, of course, ready to act as Prime Minister at the highest level within the European Commission, so that we can find an acceptable solution for the Czech Republic and that we can finally implement as many of the 64 buildings as possible in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Böhnish has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u10	Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Rather than a question, a remark that we are also dealing with this in the Chamber of Deputies. I perceive this matter so seriously that this week, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have sent a letter to the Commissioner for the Environment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, Mr Karmen Vella, to consider further action by the European Commission, taking into account that delays in infrastructure construction in the Czech Republic will have a negative impact on air quality, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u11	Thank you. The Prime Minister is about to reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u12	Thank you. If I can still respond. I think this is one of those serious problems, and I hope that the European Commission and the relevant Directorate-General for the Environment will perceive this, because many of these buildings can really improve the environment for a large number of citizens, especially those who live in cities where they should build bypasses that live in cities that should miss the new motorways that could stand. Thus, the European Commission considers that because of the age of the EIA reports, which, as I mentioned, is ten to fifteen years, it is necessary to assess in some binding way whether there have been any significant changes in relation to the environment in the territory concerned during that period. And I think one of the serious problems is that these changes have not happened in relation to the environment. Now, I am thinking of the environment that affects the lives of people living in cities and towns that are undergoing very intensive transit traffic today. There we can therefore confirm that unfortunately, there has not been an improvement in the environment in these locations, and our aim is to build these roads and, as a result of these constructions, to improve the environment perhaps tens of thousands of people who are living in this situation today with a huge burden in terms of transit, especially truck transport. One final point. It is also about European funds, because if we do not build and implement the projects that I was talking about, these are projects where we are planned to use the 90 billion circus so far. CZK from European funds under the Operational Programme Transport 2, so even here it is very important that these projects can be realized, because we have a circus of 90 billion prepared for them. CZK from European Union funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. Interpellation is complete. Another interviewer is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the remuneration of police officers. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that if I speak of police officers here, I think partly of other members of the Security Corps under Act 361. I am very pleased that the Czech Government has decided to increase the number of police officers and has decided for 2016 to adopt 850 new police officers. Recruiting, however, will not be easy, because if I want a good man, I also have to reward him properly. If I look at Government Order No 286/2015 setting basic rates for the remuneration of members of the security forces, as well as for a young boarding cop with a graduation, who will meet all other conditions, is a salary of around 15,000 gross. If he served us here in Prague in direct performance, he has a risk contribution, a bonus of CZK 6,000, so we are on a gross reward of 21,000 plus minus. If it is not in Prague, it is significantly smaller. If you look in the tram of Prague public transport, you will see that Prague is also looking for officers and offers them a starting salary of CZK 30,000 plus free transport, housing allowance and more. I am asking you, Prime Minister, that you are considering resetting the basic rates for the remuneration of members and what you think should be the starting salary of a police officer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u15	Thank you for keeping time to the question. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me begin by mentioning a few things which concern the overall context of the question asked by Mr Ondráček, because we are in a situation where, firstly, we are gradually increasing the number of police members, because there has been a significant decline in recent years. We, as the government, have decided to change that. That means about 4,000 cops should be added. So we're doing this recruitment. At the same time, it is worth noting that similar recruitment is carried out by the Army of the Czech Republic, because we also strengthen the numbers of members of the army. Besides, we have record low unemployment. Last year we had the least people without work within the European Union together with Germany. That means, we have recruitment to the police, we have recruitment to the army, we have, fortunately, very low unemployment, and then, of course, we have big differences in terms of salaries in the various regions, what the MP mentioned. The difference, which is most marked, is in Prague, where average salaries in terms of regional differences are much higher than elsewhere, and here the difference in the starting salary to the police and the starting salary to other similar jobs is probably the largest. If we looked at salaries in southern Bohemia or, for example, salaries in the Olomouc Region, the difference would probably not be the same as the example that touched the capital. Secondly, I would like to mention that the government is trying to increase the overall salaries of police officers, but it is not just police officers, it is also other members of the armed forces. I want to mention the fire department. We have tried and tried to return in the past two years to police officers and firefighters what the previous government, Petr Nečas, has taken away from them, which has reduced tariff salaries by 10 percent. We are trying to bring back the tariff salaries with gradual steps. This means that on 1 November 2014, the basic tariff salary of a police member increased by 3,5 %, and then on 1 January 2015 the tariff salary increased by 1,5 % and 1 November 2015, i.e. last year, the basic tariff salary increased by 3 %. When we look at what a cop's starting salary looked like in 2011, he could count on a total amount of CZK 15,820. That's the basic fare, the cop's starting salary. From 1 November 2015, the amount is approximately 17,000 crowns. After completion of basic training, the police officer shall be placed in the third tariff class and the salary shall then be increased by one step every three years. That means there's a paycheck. Then there are other components of a police officer's service income, which means in addition to the basic fare, and the extra charge is a personal fee, a fee, an extra charge for a service abroad and a surcharge for management. So these are the extras that then affect the overall salary of the police officer. I would like to assure Mr Ondráček that the government is aware of the problem that is here today in terms of the competitiveness of the offer presented by the Police of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of the Interior as an employer, and of all the factors I have mentioned. The government's aim is to continue gradually in the following period to increase public sector staff's tariff salaries, including those of police officers. In the last two years, we have managed to stabilize the police considerably. There's been a lot of empty spreadsheets, and the police are down, which, I think, is a very important thing. This means a relative percentage of the more experienced police officers, members of the congregation, have increased. I am convinced that last year's excellent result, when crime was reduced by 14 percent year on year in the Czech Republic, 14 percent is a significant leap from the point of view of reducing crime, so it is also the result that the police force has stabilized, that we have stabilized it with staff, that the tables have been filled gradually and that the police are able to offer police officers the prospect of a gradual increase in salaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u18	Thank you again. Prime Minister, of course everything you said is known to me because I'm dealing with it. I am glad that you said that you were increasing, but that you were gradually returning, yes, you returned what was taken from the Nečasův and Kalouskův government, but there is still a real decline in wages of about 9 percent, because in the meantime, there was an inflation rate over the seven years. If you're talking about recruiting and supplementing the spreadsheets, well, if we don't want to go all the way, let's just go outside the door of this hall where the security service is. Ten people are missing from the table. And how many tens and hundreds of hours people here have to do on overtime or for free, we can even discuss that. And I'll give this interview to the responsible Home Secretary. I'm going to ask you again the particular question you didn't answer, unfortunately, what do you think a cop's starting salary should be? All you have to do is give me some money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u20	Thank you. A little while ago, in the first part of my reply, I said how the salaries of police officers increased over the past period. I think that's an important change from what we've seen here in the past, because in the past, the police didn't have much perspective. What did the cops meet when they got in? They were meeting with the fact that tariff salaries had decreased. They were meeting with the police precincts. Places of spreadsheets within the police department were decreasing. They met with the lack of money to ensure the basic operation of the police. I remember, and it's three or four years ago, when the county and the city were contributing to the police, giving donations to the police, to the police precincts, so that the cops could have gas at all and provide the work they should be doing. I'm glad these things are in the past, that cops don't have to beg at city hall to drive a police car out of the garage, and that the police have a perspective today, they know how many people they're gonna have, they're hiring new members. [[15.00 hours]] I, of course, wish, like Mr Ondráček and other Members in this House, that we should be able to offer a competitive salary for an incoming police officer so that people who associate their long-term plans with it, who really want to work there to ensure security and want to protect their fellow citizens from the police. But we need to get to that one step at a time. We can't do any radical, one-time pay raises just for the cops, only for the incoming cops. I am in favour of taking a step to increase tariff salaries every year, and at the end of the term, we will be able to clearly demonstrate how we have gradually improved the remuneration of police officers. But it's not just about the payoff. It is about the overall conditions that are created for the work of police officers by the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u21	Well, thank you, that settles the interpellation. Another interviewer is Mr Jiří Valenta, the question of restricting the anonymity of the Internet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to ask for your opinion on registered attempts, yet timid, towards future state restrictions on the anonymity of the Internet. In the Information Technology Department, the idea of the media came directly from your government, called the unanonymizing of the Internet, really caused a big fuss, which I can fully testify to at this point as chair of the subcommittee on ICT industry and eGovernment. It is clear to each of us that cybercrime is an important social problem of our time, and you too could get to know some of its speeches and at least some of its unpleasant effects on your own. Cybercrime can attack several ways, the state as well as the form of so-called cyber wars, individuals whose identity and personal data are subsequently abused for various fraudulent acts, or critical infrastructure, such as nuclear power stations, hospitals or military targets. However, it can also allow or mediate the purchase of drugs, child pornography, illegal arms trafficking, extremism, etc. On the other hand, state-controlled control, or any restriction on Internet freedom, is direct interference with citizens' privacy and can thus bring us closer to authoritarian regimes, which, as a Social Democrat, I suppose, you would not want to do. You could also theoretically lean towards an intervariate, i.e. some form of softer regulation, but according to experts, it would only affect domestic users, not real cyber-criminals. Moreover, even in this case, the degree of unwanted state control so far would increase relatively free media. So, Prime Minister, I am asking not only for your personal opinion on this problem, but, in particular, for the Government's position as the ultimate executive body, so that various speculations can be avoided in the future. Thank you in advance for a clear and unwitting answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u23	I thank Mr Valent and the Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u24	Thank you. honourable Members, I assume that the Member had in mind in his observations an article published in the Mladá fronta on 19 January this year. The article came out under the headline "The Chovenec: On the web only with permission." I would like to quote here, to be precise, the reaction of the Minister of the Interior, who opposed this article in the Mladá fronta today immediately on 19 January, and I would therefore like to make the right statement that appeared in the Mladá fronta today in this context. The Ministry of the Interior thus states in its opinion: Mladá fronta Today, specifically editor Václav Janouš, on Tuesday 19 January he published a crudely manipulative text entitled "The Chovenec: on the web only with permission". Article Young Fronts Today, it gives readers false information that the Minister of the Interior wants to pass out some kind of IDs to all users so that people can access the Internet only with permission. Likewise, the Home Secretary never said he wanted to restrict Internet access. This information is false, and no one from the Home Office or the Home Secretary has ever said anything like that. We therefore consider it pointless to put efforts to open a public debate on Internet security in connection with China's actions or Russia's, as the editor of the Young Front has done today. Furthermore, I quote from the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior: the Minister of the Interior merely expressed the view that it was probably time to open up a public debate on Internet security. An open expert discussion, which would focus on various options for defending the movement of extremists in virtual space, is needed by the Minister and not only in the Czech Republic, but also in other countries. The Ministry of the Interior considers it striking that the Young Front today, at a time when practically the whole world is talking about Internet security, this explicitly defines itself against efforts to combat Internet crime. So much quote from the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, which has been issued on this matter. So it is also clear from this opinion that the Minister of the Interior Chovanec did not come up with any proposal to restrict freedom of access to the Internet. However, I think it is clear to us that there is a problem here. Rather, the problem is called the protection of citizens' data when it is published on the Internet, because privacy generally applies, which generally also applies on the Internet and on operational and localization data. And yet it also concerns the content of communication that people conduct on the Internet, it affects the letter secrets, which in most cases can only be broken with the consent of the judge. This means that very often today, even within the European Union, individual countries, there is a problem where people complain that there is false or uncurrent information about them on the Internet, and very often the courts stand up for these citizens' complaints. So I think that it is not possible to ignore a situation where, unfortunately, technological progress in a number of areas in terms of electronic communication is overstepping the law and also the legitimate interest of a citizen in protecting privacy. We think that there is a reason for us to have a general debate on this subject, to have a professional debate on this, but the aim is certainly not to limit Internet freedom. The aim is to find ways to limit the possibility of committing Internet crime. And I am very pleased that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that are above average active in this area. I'm glad we've managed to enforce the Cyber Security Act over the past two years, that we have a center that runs the National Security Authority, and that controls all cyberspace incidents, records all cyberspace incidents. I am also glad that the Police of the Czech Republic have established a specialized part of the Police of the Czech Republic within the framework of the ÚOHS, where police experts deal with this crime. I would also like to inform you that, on the basis of the decisions made last year in the context of increasing the number of police officers, a significant part of the new experts who will be hired at national level will go to the task force that will fight crime on the Internet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. A follow-up question for my colleague Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister. You answered me more or less, even though the answer was a little cautious, but I get it. I'd like to ask you one more question, and that's a little bit from another keg. I wonder what you're saying about the fact that this information, you correctly said what article it came from, the information I was talking about here, I wonder what you're saying about it coming from the camp of your coalition ally Andrej Babiš from the ANO movement, because of course he owns the Young Front Journal today. So what can you tell me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u27	Thank you for the additional question. The Prime Minister is probably ready to answer as well. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u28	So I'm sure if I were to put myself in the position of Minister Chovanc at the moment when I look at the headlins in the morning and find out that I'm so falsely blamed, I certainly wouldn't have thought of anything nice about a coalition partner. So at least I would call it a lack of solidarity and some understanding of coalition cooperation. And I don't want to look for another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u29	Thank you. We'll continue, the interpellation is complete. Now, Mr Herbert Pavera on the drawing of European funds. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u30	Nice and pleasant afternoon, Prime Minister, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. At today's press conference between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Regional Development, I was interested in information on the drawing of EU subsidies from both the Minister's mouth and the Prime Minister's. Among other things, the Prime Minister said that the government's key priority is drawing on EU funds, and I really commend that, and I believe that will be the case. The Prime Minister, however, also said that when the government joined in January 2014, only CZK 389 billion was exhausted, that is 55 percent of the total allocation of the subsidy. In two years, the government was able to draw 250 billion crowns up to 94 percent of the total allocation of subsidies. The Minister for Regional Development said, among other things, that there was no shortage of 11 billion in 2013, 9 billion in 2014 and probably no CZK 10 billion in 2015. Prime Minister, do you really think that your government is merely responsible for drawing another 250 billion in 2014, 2015 in the programming period 2007 to 2013? Don't you know that a number of projects were already submitted in 2012 and 2013 and then they were realized, and the payment was only in 2014? Isn't that how your information on the use of the grant is designed for the public? In 2013, 11 billion were not spent. In past performances, you blamed the right-wing Nečasův government. Perhaps you have forgotten that this government had only ruled for six months in that year and that it might have achieved much better results than you did in the years to come. And is it true that neither koruna has paid out of EU funds yet in the new period 2014, 2015? At today's press conference, you said that in 2020, so little money would be spent. That would mean that each year you will draw 130 billion. Is it real? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u31	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u32	Thank you. Of course, honourable Members, I agree with what Mr Pavera said. The life cycle of projects is long, often much longer than the planning period. That means it either intersects with him or doesn't intersect with him. But it is obvious that a number of projects began to be prepared before 2007, before the formal period began. Then it had to be applied and it had to be administered. I just mentioned a checkpoint that I think is important. Every time a new government comes in, she should probably do it. That means, let's just clean the table and describe things the way they are, say where the default state starts. Today I recalled the initial state of origin, which we started in 2014. The situation was such, the planning period formally lasted from 2007 to 2013 and then, of course, the principle of N+2 applies, that is, we are pumping 2015. So when our government started, which was officially January 29, 2014, we were already in the N+2 regime because the basic period ended in 2013. And in February 2014 after the period 2007 to 2013, 55 per cent of the total allocation was reimbursed. So the whole period has passed and only 55 percent of the allocation has been reimbursed. When you imagine it, it's a similar situation as if the whole period had now taken place, and in 2020 ahead of us, a new government came and found that it was exhausted from this financial perspective of ours, which started in 2014, only 55 percent of the allocation, and found it to be only 55 percent in the spring of 2021. So it's obvious that there was some delay here and that there was an imbalance here and that a large part of the projects had to be realized only at the last minute and were pumped especially in 2015. So we were able to speed up the draw. Two years later, 250 billion were cashed in. That means we're at 94 percent today, the starting line was 55 percent, now we're over 94 percent, and of course we're going to do our best to complete the whole process, so that the result is as good as possible. Why is it important that we don't pick up any delays? In 2018 it will actually be the first year... will be the last year when it will still be possible to pump under the N+2 system and in 2018 there is a risk of the first failure of European funds that we will not be able to spend at the end of the year. So we need to have at least 50 percent of the total allocation exhausted in 2018. That's what I think is a milestone for this government to target. I talked to all the operating programs chiefs about it today. We are trying to really maximize the scale of the challenges, the amount of resources to which calls are drawn. About 180 calls are announced at the moment. In the information system of the monitoring system of European funds, we have 11 thousand applications registered today. This means we are moving from the point of view of total allocation around 30 percent of total allocation in terms of called challenges. So I think that as a starting point, it is in a situation where I dare say that we are ready to meet the objective of having at least 50 per cent of European funds paid in 2018, so that we do not get to the situation where we were 2013, 2014, 2015, that European funds have been forfeited. Otherwise, from the balance sheet point of view today, which we are essentially counting only losses, I would like to remind you that in 2013 11 billion were not spent, in 2014 9 billion and in 2015 it should be an amount, as confirmed by the Minister for Regional Development today, up to 10 billion. So, overall, during the programming period, when we had the opportunity to draw about 700 billion, it should not be pumped into CZK 30 billion. I just want to remind you that, according to the Ministry for Regional Development's communication this morning, the weakening of the Czech koruna's exchange rate actually led to an increase during that period, the amount of funds would increase by approximately CZK 23 billion. That means it was an extra amount that we had to deal with. Given the interventions that the Czech National Bank has begun to implement, the amount of funds in euro has increased and this has made the situation even more difficult in terms of the absorption of old European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u33	Mr President, thank you. A colleague, Herbert Pavera, is applying for an additional question. Before you say it, I state Mr Martin Komárek's apology from 14.30. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u34	Okay. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I'm just reminding you that you didn't manage to cash a crown in 2014 and 2015, so I believe that by that year 2018 the 50 percent will succeed. But I want one last question. In 2014, I asked you and the then Minister for Regional Development Jourová whether there was enough funding in EU funds for the development of municipalities and cities. That's when you assured me you did. The opposite is true. There is much less money there than municipalities and cities really need. Will you, then, address the lack of funding for municipalities and cities by increasing the budgetary determination of taxes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u35	Thank you. The Prime Minister will complete his answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u36	Thank you. If I can first reach about 50 percent of the total allocation to this issue of our ability by 2018. Let me just remind you one more time, and I'd rather read the exact numbers as we're basically at this point. Since the beginning of the programming period, 180 calls for allocation of 240 billion in these calls have been announced for all programmes, so that is where applications can be submitted in the monitoring system. 11,000 applications have been registered in the monitoring system so far. And that amount of 240 billion is 37 percent of the total allocation, which amounts to CZK 648 billion. That means, at this point, we have about 37 percent of the allocation covered by the challenges. I assume that this year the pumping process will be really launched across operational programs, and I think it is a good start to meet that goal so that we have exhausted 50 percent of the allocation in 2018. [[15.20 hours]] With regard to the question of covering the needs of municipalities and cities, I think there are many areas, there will be overhangs in demand from the point of view of drawing European funds. It's already shown to me today, and it's going to show up more in the environment, where the total allocation of resources has been significantly reduced. There were very often applicants of the village and the city. And I think that the next governments will probably have to look for alternative resources in the budget to strengthen the needs of municipalities and cities in this area. I remind you that we have increased the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions. Parliament has approved this, that is to say, this has increased since 1 January this year and the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities has increased since 1 January 2017. This means that there is a question of strengthening the municipalities' income to pay the total return on value added tax. Those are the concrete steps we've taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u37	Thank you. That settles the interpellation. Another interviewer is Mr Petr Fiala on value added tax. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u38	Thank you. Hello, Prime Minister. To begin with, I would quote from one document: "The citizen and his family should feel free, content and proud in the country. Businessmen, entrepreneurs and businesses should do business safely and freely, pay taxes and offer jobs. The state will respect the taxpayers and prevent the waste of the distribution of money from their taxes." So many quotes, I think you recognize the text. It's from your government's programming statement. Now, about that question. Recently, information has been reported that financial authorities deliberately block or complicate the registration of value added tax payers. Specifically, those who want to volunteer to pay this tax. I can give some examples of what is required of those people who want to pay value added tax voluntarily. Please provide the business plan, provide information on what economic activity it is, indicate the address of the place where the economic activity is taking place and document ownership of the property. Submit business contracts with customers and suppliers or other correspondence where appropriate. Tell us whether you are carrying out your activities through your employees. Please provide a list of customers and suppliers. Tell the tax authorities what property you own, such as motor vehicles, real estate, computers, office equipment. Where appropriate, provide other supporting documents which may be considered as proof of economic activity. These are the demands of some financial authorities or a number of financial authorities on those who want to voluntarily pay value added tax. From this, it is obvious that there is a delay here, and there is a discouragement for those people who want to do this voluntarily. Prime Minister, I'm asking you how this is in line with the government's programming statement. And what you're going to do to make this practice stop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I can respond to Mr Fiala's interpellation, first of all, I would like to say that we are trying to achieve, in a number of areas, a reduction in tax robberies. This means reducing tax evasion. We have been having this debate here for the last two years very intensively in the Chamber of Deputies. We led it around the VAT control report, which they introduced in Slovakia and which we also introduced in the Czech Republic in order to reduce tax evasion. We're having a debate about electronic sales records. We're having a debate about proving the origin of the property. But then, of course, there are other measures that are chosen by the tax administration precisely to prevent tax evasion and prevent losses for the state budget. I also want to mention from the measures we have taken, the tax Cobra, which again is nothing that should complicate life for entrepreneurs. It should complicate life for those who are not honest, who rob the state of taxes and cause tax evasion. With regard to the subject on which you have asked here now: The tax administration is checking all the entities entering the value added tax system, checking them equally, regardless of whether they do so voluntarily or do so on a compulsory basis. The tax administration does not do this to complicate business for entrepreneurs, but it does so to prevent, where possible, the entry of persons who wish to exploit the value added tax system. This ensures a safer environment for honest payers, most of whom, of course. When registering new VAT payers, the tax administration pays the utmost attention to circumstances which could indicate the purpose of registering such a payer in order to exploit the value added tax system. For this reason, the tax administration seeks to verify, in particular, the basic condition of registration and whether the applicant is actually carrying out an economic activity separately. In order to verify this matter, the tax administrator requires the taxpayer to submit key documents. This is, for example, a business plan, a business contract with customers or suppliers, a way of carrying out economic activities. Whether the tax entity has sufficient personnel or material equipment for the declared activity at all. Copies of invoices issued, etc. These are sensitive data. Financial management works with them in their protection regime and a number of security measures are being applied. The tax administrator shall examine each case of the application for registration of the payer separately, taking into account all the information gathered under the registration procedure by him and also protecting the interests of the State and also protecting the interests of those payers who are already in the VAT system today. Before issuing a registration decision, the VAT payer shall carefully consider the specific circumstances of the case, depending on the documents collected. Where the tax administrator, on the basis of the documents collected, finds that the declared performance or assumption of carrying out a real activity is based solely on pre-existing transactions, the registration shall be refused. So much for the circumstances of registration of VAT payers in the value added tax system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiala will ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u42	I'm just going to point out that this is a real interpelation. Here of the 16 interviews to the Prime Minister is 8 from the Coalition MPs, which is at least odd. Prime Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer because it contains information that is wrong. For example, if the turnover of an entrepreneur exceeds CZK 1 million and he becomes a debtor of value added tax, then information to this extent and documents to that extent are not required. So the equality isn't here. And I doubt it very much, and I can't imagine why the Financial Administration needs such data as the businessman's car, etc. This has nothing to do with the value added tax and the way it operates. So it's obviously a disproportionate requirement for small businessmen, and it's for those who volunteer to become taxpayers of value added tax. To me, it seems like a completely absurd policy that the state is now applying to these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u43	Thank you. The Prime Minister will reply in an additional reply. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the long-term analyses presented by the tax administration when assessing the state of the tax environment in the Czech Republic. It does not only concern the Czech Republic, it also concerns other countries of the European Union. Value added tax is an area where there are significant tax evasions. And, of course, if the government did not respond sufficiently forcefully, it could be criticised by the opposition for not doing enough to prevent tax evasion in the area of value added tax. We are trying to proceed not in a way of experiment-mistake that we would invent Czech solutions and they here tried in the Czech Republic. We're trying to look around with our eyes open. We try to use the experience of the surrounding countries and inspire ourselves there. And I must say that Slovakia, for example, has been significantly ahead of the Czech Republic in terms of the measures taken in recent years to combat tax evasion. And I do not think that the measures as they were introduced in Slovakia - I merely remind you that there are registers, that there is VAT control reports - I do not think that Slovakia would have slowed down economically. I just remind you that in recent years the Slovak economy has on average grown more significantly than the Czech economy. We managed to outrun the Slovák last year, when we achieved more economic growth than they did. [[15.30 hours]] So the measures against VAT evasion have their logic and are based on the experience of tax administrations in other countries. The aim is to prevent special registration between taxpayers of value added tax in order to prevent the creation of assigned chains, which are then used to draw funds out of the state budget in the form of refunds on value added tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. So we continue to interpel Mr Zdeněk Soukup on migration and government measures. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u46	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am going to take a step out of the right rhetoric. Dear Prime Minister, in your report on migration, you mentioned some positions, some measures or expectations last week, or what to call it. You mentioned, for example, that the weakening of the influx of migrants could provide for Turkey. People are turning to me, and I also ask how it is possible to trust an agreement with a country representative who has been elected an Islamist party. A little doubt. I will recall President Erdogan's published statement: There is no radical or moderate Islam. Islam is only Islam. Islam is only one. Can we really trust a partner who ignores or ignores more, so to speak, oil dealing from the Islamic State? It was documented by Russian and American satellite images of endless cistern columns on Turkish territory. And what about ISIL recruitment centers on Turkish territory? The information has recently been brought about, I'd say, by prestigious and solid American agencies. I also doubt that we will be saved by persistent verbal rejection of quotas and consolation that we are actually lying outside the main migration stream. I have a good memory. I have a vivid memory of how the Federal Republic of Germany, after 1993, exposed thousands of Vietnamec people with fat pockets. That's when I remember the headlines: 50,000 Vietnamec are leaving Germany. The German government then offered a free ticket and 400 marks to every Vietnamec who emigrated. It's just a doubt. Just the expectations we have, some of them just don't have to come out. Prime Minister, do we have a plan B?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u47	Thank you. I'm sure the Prime Minister is ready for an ongoing point. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Soukup mentioned here and concerning Turkey. Of course, before we agreed to an agreement with Turkey as the Czech Republic, and we supported it, supported the agreement by all 28 European Union Member States, no country opposed this agreement, so I conducted talks with representatives of other European countries and examined their motivation to make such an agreement, which is very specific and which, of course, gives Turkey a number of very decent offers from the European Union, but also calls for Turkey to take absolutely concrete steps, which Turkey should take, if it is really necessary for us to conclude such an agreement now. Much of the representatives of countries such as Germany, Austria, France were convinced that Turkey could act more actively in order to regulate the strong migration pressure that is Europe in the event of such an agreement. I would also like to say that in a situation where the security situation around Europe, in the east of Ukraine, the conflict of Ukraine and Russia, the Middle East, the war in Syria, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, North Africa, the war in Libya, instability in many other countries, Europe must be more concerned about what is happening in its surroundings. Turkey is an important strategic partner in the region of Asia, the Middle East, a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance as well as us, i.e. He is our ally within the North Atlantic Alliance, and he is a country that has a democratic system, even though, within the democratic system in recent years, the biggest support has been given to a party that is religiously-oriented in Islam, which is not completely exceptional in the Turkish religious environment, but in the past, secular political parties have had a stronger position there, in recent years, stronger support has been given by a religiously-oriented party that has won the last elections to Parliament and has even won the majority of all seats, but in the democratic elections in Turkey. I don't want to evaluate the quality of Turkish democracy right now. However, I think that Europe must take every opportunity to regulate quickly the strong migration pressure that is directed at Europe. So there are the following options of procedure, or individual steps. One. We have the right to ask Turkey and Greece to improve cooperation in terms of migration regulation. We can demand, on the basis of an agreement concluded with Turkey, that Turkey intervene against human smugglers, to limit the ability to sail on boats from the Turkish coast, to limit the possibilities for those boats to distribute, sell, including life jackets, to strengthen Turkey's security measures on its western coast and to return refugees to its coast if they are detained in its coastal waters. This is what we can demand from Turkey. We can also require it to better protect its external borders and regulate, for example. the influx of refugees from Pakistan or Afghanistan to their territory. At the same time, if Turkey is unable to fulfil these obligations and does not lead to a reduction in migration pressure, we have the right to demand this regulation from Greece. I am pleased that after a number of months of warning, the European Commission has finally begun to examine very carefully whether Greece fulfils all the conditions that it should fulfil as a member of Schengen. In the event that Greece is unable to react, another option which, in my view, is absolutely real is that we will help guard the borders in Bulgaria and Macedonia and achieve an event at this border between Bulgaria and Greece, between Bulgaria and Turkey, between Macedonia and Greece. Between Albania and Greece, the regime for the regulation of migration will be respected, that economic migrants will be returned from this border and only refugees who have a chance of asylum in Europe will be given access. Here can play a positive role of V4. That is why I have also called in the situation before the European Union summit, when there is a growing nervousness in Europe about what will happen in the coming weeks, so I have called the summit of Prime Ministers V4 to Prague on 15 February. We will meet here and we want to agree specifically on what the V4 can do to strengthen border surveillance in the Balkans, i.e. on the line I described. How we can help Bulgaria, how we can help Macedonia and how we will act together at the European Council to highlight the aspect of protecting the external Schengen border. Because it will take some time before a common European border and coast guard is established, we are ready to enter it, the Coast Guard, and until then, in my opinion, we need to act in the Balkans within this main migration route.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u49	Thank you. Mr Soukup's supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u50	I'd rather not ask you a little point. I'm glad we have a plan B and even a C, as I've heard. I took part with the delegation some time ago as an escort to Macedonia by Mr Hamáček. I must say that, in essence, Makedonec have already quite logically created this line, regardless of the fact that they did not actually get a crown from the European Union on their own time. However, I would like to ask you one question. There can be a real crisis situation where all these measures do not actually work out. Are we ready, let's say, to close our national, state borders? You know, we basically, it is nothing against the European Union, because, as we know, from the European Union's regulation, we for at least six months, and now this is another overtime period, we are essentially entitled to that. And I would like to ask how long it takes us to essentially take such a measure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u51	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u52	Thank you. I just want to remind you about what the Member said about the situation with the Vietnamec people, and let's say the time they left Germany and many of them settled here in the Czech Republic. So if we, and we as the Czech Republic insist, respect the Dublin agreements and the rules that work within Schengen, then Germany could only return to us refugees who could have come to its territory through the Czech Republic. The number of refugees who would come to Germany through our territory is absolutely minimal. But, of course, this could work under Schengen rules, but of course, I am able to manage this minimum quantity as the Czech Republic in a regular manner. If Germany closes its borders, strengthens control at its borders, the Czech Republic is ready to react, we will respond following Austria. I assume that if Germany closed its borders, Austria, Slovenia will also close its borders immediately, and simply the domino will be composed around the Balkans towards the south. This means that countries will gradually take tighter measures at their borders. [[15.40 hours]] The Czech Republic currently has enhanced supervision at the border between the Czech Republic and Austria. Last year there was a police and army exercise, and at this moment the police and army are ready in case of government decisions within a few hours to dramatically intensify the border surveillance between the Czech Republic and Austria. For this border, we assume that it could be most burdened in the event of Germany's decision to close its borders until Austria has also decided to close its borders. So the answer to the question of the Member is: in the order of several hours. The appropriate plans are prepared, the relevant police officers and members of the army are ready, so that they know exactly which units would be involved. Training was carried out and the southern part of the border was mapped from the point of view of the necessary infrastructure, which would have to be brought there, so that we could also provide the police and patrol troops with the necessary background.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u53	Thank you. And now, Mr Ladislav Velebný, on the question of minimum wage. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of raising a minimum wage because I believe that going to work and being poor is undignified for citizens of the Czech Republic. As we all know, employment is constantly increasing in investment and exports. GDP per person is rising, low inflation is maintained, and the debt of the state has decreased in the last year. The government is trying to improve the life situation of the most vulnerable groups. I believe that when the economy grows, not only companies in their profits but also employees in their incomes should know about it. Prime Minister, the minimum wage has increased since January of this year. Here I will remind you that since 2013, the minimum wage in the Czech Republic has thus increased by CZK 1,900, while I would like to point out that it has not increased for six years since 2007. I think it's a rapid increase. However, I must say that the Czech Republic is one of the countries with the lowest minimum wage. Prime Minister, one of the priorities of the government is to raise the minimum wage and get it to the level where it will perform the function of protecting working people from falling into so-called working poverty. Here again, I remind you that under the right-wing governments, this instrument was deliberately devalued from fulfilling its function. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, how the government intends to proceed further in the matter of increasing minimum wage in the following period. Prime Minister, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. The Prime Minister is ready and will answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u56	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, what Mr Velebný mentioned here, I can agree with that in principle. Unfortunately, I also have to confirm that we belong to a group of countries in the European Union that have absolutely the lowest minimum wage. I believe we are among the four or five countries with the lowest minimum wage throughout the European Union. The Polák beat us, the Slovák beat us, somewhere around our level are Maďar. Bulgaria or Romania, for example, has a lower minimum wage, and these are countries that have a much lower standard of living than the Czech Republic. I consider it a big mistake, and I think it has caused a major distortion to the labour market, that from January 2007 to August 2013, the minimum wage has not increased at all. This means that although inflation was, although average wages were rising, the minimum wage remained the same, so the purchasing power of the minimum wage decreased for six years. In addition, it was constantly said that work had to pay off, that people should not stay at home on welfare benefits, that they should take less paid work, that there was just a lot of talk going on, but that there was no increase in minimum wage. That's one of the biggest mistakes, and I'm glad we could compensate for this and catch up to a large extent. In two years we increased the minimum wage by a total of CZK 1,400 gross, so from 1 January this year the minimum wage in the Czech Republic is 9,900 gross. That's not a big sum. When you take social and health insurance contributions and income tax, what remains of the people is not a large sum at all. I believe that, as the minimum wage is nowadays, it still fails to fulfil the motivational role it should play. We need to have a minimum wage so that a person who works, even at a minimum wage and goes through a job, has more money than he gets when they're on social support. We need such a minimum wage in the Czech Republic. We agreed within the government coalition, we have it in the coalition agreement that the minimum wage should reach 40 percent of the average wage. If we expect the average wage to rise somewhere to CZK 27,000 gross this year, then in my opinion, the minimum wage next year should increase to at least CZK 11,000 gross. Even the 11,000 crowns of gross are no big money, but it is a good start for us to actually be able to say in the Czech Republic that it is worth working to have motivation for people who are unemployed. We have 100,000 job vacancies in the Czech Republic. Of course, these are not in many cases jobs where minimum wage is collected. Usually, a higher salary is paid and requires a certain qualification. But we need to increase the motivation to work. When I've been dealing with people who are in the first place in the last few months, working on employment offices, trying to activate the unemployed in the long term, they're at the counters where they handle social benefits, so unisono said one thing: we need to increase the difference between benefits and minimum wages. The more the difference will be, the better we will be working in terms of activating people who are unemployed in the long term, in terms of activating people who are on social benefits, simply because the level of minimum guaranteed wages will motivate them to think about changing their lifestyle and to try to find jobs. So it is very important not only in terms of social justice, a decent standard for people who work, but it is also very important for the labour market to work better here. And one final point. It is precisely because we still have low wages in the Czech Republic and in a number of areas when people arrive at work that really does not pay for low wages to work, so I think that the tax bonus that works within our income tax system plays a useful role. I am not a supporter of the tax bonus being cancelled because I think it is again an incentive component for low-income groups, for people who work for lower salaries to pay them to go to such jobs, to commute. Let's raise the minimum wage and not cancel the tax bonus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Velebný does not require an additional reply. We continue to interpel Mr Ladislav Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u58	Dear Prime Minister, lending is incredibly easy in our country. You don't need a license, you don't have to meet any demanding requirements, you just offer your services. For this reason, non-banking entities operating in the field of consumer credit are over 50,000, because it is enough to obtain a business license and you can start a happy business. In such an environment, it is very difficult to exercise effective control. Moreover, the state's scope is fragmented between two institutions - trade offices, where it is simply requested to grant a trade, and the Czech Trade Inspection, which subsequently carries out supervision. As a result of this situation, the unfair practices of some firms, I would not be afraid to say to bank scumbags who literally parasite on consumer credit in their desire to obtain a fat commission and drive hundreds of thousands of citizens into the arms of ruthless executors. [[15.50 hours]] In the Czech Republic, half a million people owe so much money that they will probably never be able to repay them. Despite all the measures, however, bank scumbags do not dwindle. That, of course, is what social problems are about. In the end, it is a state that, at its cost, more precisely at the expense of each of us, the taxpayer, must address the problems that arise. For this reason, Prime Minister, I am interested in whether the state is preparing some regulation on consumer credit that falls within the grey economy. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u59	I thank my colleague Šincl. The Prime Minister is ready. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u60	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, perhaps Mr Šincl will not be angry, but I have remembered one more thing about Mr Soukup's interpellation, who asked about Turkey. Coincidentally, when I'm done here in a little while, I'm going to have a meeting with the ambassador of Turkey in the Czech Republic and we're going to talk today about how the action plan that was concluded between Turkey and the Czech Republic is being implemented. And last week I met with our ambassador, who we have in Turkey, to find out exactly what is happening in Turkey really in these last days, and I would also like Turkey to visit the Foreign Minister Zaorálek, if possible, before the European Council meeting, and to try again on the spot to convince as much as possible of the measures implemented in Turkey. So we are in favour of taking all the opportunity to negotiate with Turkey and stress what the Czech Republic is interested in. As regards Mr Šincl's interpellation. I think we are going to actually take the last step towards integrating supervision of our financial market. When I was Minister of Finance, we integrated financial market supervision in terms of the capital market. As far as insurance is concerned, we canceled the Securities Commission and part of the supervision from the Ministry of Finance over insurance companies, and we transferred both of them to the central bank. So the CNB is now overseeing a significant part of the Czech financial market. But, of course, apart from bank loan providers, we have thousands of non-bank loan providers who are essentially regulated by a single law, and that is the trade law. And then, of course, the general rules concerning the Commercial and Civil Code. I think it's completely inadequate. That is why we agreed as a government coalition two years ago, and we recently completed our work and sent the law here to the Chamber of Deputies, where we propose a new credit law for consumers, which should significantly increase consumer protection in the financial market. We propose that all entities that provide consumer credit, i.e. all non-bank entities were subject to supervision by the Czech National Bank, i.e. that there will be a re-licensing of the market. These entities will have to meet the new legal conditions, including the minimum capital they should have at their disposal. This means that the process of integrating supervision of the entire financial market under one entity under the Czech National Bank will be completed. I am convinced that this process of regulation change, strengthening regulation and over-licensing could significantly clear our market. I firmly believe that this will result in serious entities remaining on the market, which will be controlled and regulated by the Czech National Bank, and will also be regulated by sanctions that the provider can charge in the event of consumer delays in order to prevent the consumer from falling into a debt trap. Newly they will be subject to regulation also called. micro-borrowers up to 5,000. crowns which were not regulated at all. I am convinced that this new credit law for consumers, which the government has approved and sent to Parliament, represents a fundamentally revolutionary qualitative step in terms of strengthening consumer protection in the financial market. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Chamber of Deputies to approve this bill so that the process of relicing those entities that provide non-bank loans can be started as soon as possible and that the environment in which these loans are granted to us in the Czech Republic will be improved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u61	Thank you. I'm asking if there's an additional question. It's not like that. Mr. Koníček, in that case, will be the last interpellation for the Prime Minister to get to according to the draw. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, the Audit Committee on 15 October 2015 to Control Conclusion No. 12/08 The Industrial Cooperation Programmes adopted Resolution No. 146, in which he asked the Prime Minister to inform the Supervisory Committee by 30 November 2015 of the Government's position on the use of industrial cooperation programmes. The resolution was delivered to you on 20 October 2015. When the government's position on the inspection committee was not received within the deadline, I drew your attention to this by letter of 10 December 2015. Today we have 28 January 2016 and there is still nothing delivered to the inspection committee. Can you explain to me, Prime Minister, how the Office of the Government works when, even after three months, it is unable to deliver the required material to the inspection committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u63	I thank Mr. President of the Supervisory Committee, Mr. Koníček. I'm sure the Prime Minister is ready. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u64	Thank you. Dear Member, all I can say is that, of course, I will have correspondence examined between the Audit Committee and the Office of the Government so that I can find out what the problem is and why the answer was not processed, especially if you have urged this matter in December of last year. Of course, the Office of the Government cannot take a position on behalf of the Government. I assume we have turned to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on this matter. So I'll check this correspondence and then I'll reply to your oral information in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u65	Thank you. A colleague of Koníček does not ask for an answer... I don't know if a colleague of Bendl... who's not here yet, so his application is failing. Mrs Bohdalová is not here either, so is her interpellation. My colleague Hovorka is here, so he can give an interview, and given the lack of time, he will be answered in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, there has been a registration system for applications for residence permits in the Czech Republic at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for several years. Depending on individual settings of individual representative offices, it is possible to register to apply for Schengen visas and to apply for long-term or permanent residence in the Czech Republic. On the Ministry's website it says that the application will be submitted at the embassy of the Czech Republic on the basis of your registration. The design and processing of your registration is free of charge. We recommend registering separately without mediation by a foreign person. Confirmation of the deadline for submission of the application will be sent to the contact e-mail address indicated in the form. It is then necessary to confirm your assignment immediately using the confirmation code sent by e-mail. According to my information, it's not possible to log into the system properly. The system is supposedly triggered for a few minutes a day, randomly and all registrations will be picked up by robotic servers. But the press and the internet are full of advertisements that a company can arrange a visa for example. citizens of Ukraine for an appropriate fee of $800 paid on behalf of Germany. Everything without ID, of course. It means that someone is making quite a profit in this strange system, and it certainly does not contribute to the good name of the Czech Republic abroad. I ask and ask for information on who is the technical operator of Visapoint. Where are the relevant servers of this system, whether in the Czech Republic or directly at foreign consulates or elsewhere? Who have direct control and supervisory powers over this system? Is it possible to determine how often the system is running and from what addresses are potential visa applicants entered into the system? Are these addresses identical to the addresses of specific applicants? If you do not know the answers directly, please send a written reply. I ask you, Prime Minister, to examine and correct this information so that the Czech Republic behaves as a standard European country, transparently with regard to applicants for temporary or permanent residence -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u67	Ambassador, you know you only have two minutes to ask. [[Mr. Caller says thank you.]] I have to ask the Prime Minister if he wants to answer at this point. Better in writing, because the answer could not be completed in time. So we agree that it's 16 o'clock, that the time for an interview with the Prime Minister is over. [[16.00 hours]] Thank you to the Prime Minister, thank you to the intercessors and wish to be consulted on the individual members of the government, when the first interviewer is Mr Ladislav Velebný to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec in the matter of the Generation 21 Foundation Fund. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u68	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the first group of Iraqi Christians have arrived in the Czech Republic in recent days. Why do I remind you of that? Because refugees really exist. They are Christians primarily in Iraq. They are primarily threatened by various Islamist terrorist cells, such as the Islamic State. But Europe ignores them. Instead, he writes quotas for the vast majority of Muslims. I know. The Generation 21 Foundation has long tried to get real and real refugees into the Czech Republic. That is why I ask, Minister, how does the relocation of Iraqi Christians with the Generation 21 Foundation continue and whether you have a secure finding that these people are indeed Christians, Christians who are persecuted and who are at risk for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u69	I thank Mr Velebný and the Minister of the Interior is certainly ready for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention a few basic and fundamental information on the question of Mr Velebný through Mr President. This is an initiative from the Gen 21 Foundation. We have also seen similar initiatives among our partners in Poland in Slovakia, when a similar number of Christians coming from the areas affected by the fight were transferred to society in the framework of the resettlement, i.e. transfer and integration into society. We have negotiated with this foundation fund for a very long time on the terms of the joint memorandum. The negotiations were not simple and the state here was rather a cooperating entity in this project. It's impossible to separate people according to faith. This is clearly a Christian foundation, and the Ministry of the Interior carried out security scans on this matter, medical examinations that were very careful. On the other hand, the Foundation Fund has undertaken to cover almost 100% of the costs associated with the transfer of these people and their integration into society. You're right that only a part of ten people from this group have arrived so far. The rest is in Lebanon and other countries. So far, the transfer of other Christians from Lebanon is postponed because the necessary documents from the Foundation to the Lebanese State have not been completed. These people must obtain an exit permit because, in the meantime, the short-stay visas they had in Lebanon seem to have fallen to them. Our security forces have made a very deep insight into the integrity of these people, into their history, identified documents, conducted interviews, and it can be concluded that people arriving are unilaterally identified, including that we know their history and that they are people who come from fighting and who are actually at risk of harm to health or life in the countries of origin. This can be stated with absolute certainty. I do not think it is possible for us to replace the immigration policy of the state with these projects in the future. I see this project as a pilot project, limited, and I am not sure that we can approach these projects massively in the future. It is also fair to say that 150 Christians who headed to Poland for a similar project did not remain in Poland and went to other countries of Europe, most likely headed to those countries where most migrants from these parts of the world are heading, namely the Federal Republic of Germany and the North of Europe. They have been in Slovakia for several weeks, and there the group stays together and participates in the integration program, including intensive Slovak courses. Those who came to our home were transferred to a recreational facility already under the administration of the foundation and are currently taking integration courses, i.e. Let's give it a minimum in the area of law, Czech language and other issues related to obtaining the necessary knowledge of the Czech Republic. I would then take the liberty of informing Members and Senators, as we are used to, by e-mail about the progress of other arrivals according to how the necessary exit documents will be handled up to 153, I suspect, in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u71	I thank the Minister and ask my colleague Velebný - he is not interested in an additional question. We will therefore continue by interpelling Mrs Nina Nováková to the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic, Daniel Herman, on the protection of cultural monuments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen and, above all, Minister, you will agree with me that the cultural heritage of our country is a very varied mosaic and one of the stones, although not by the quantity of large but very valuable, is historical musical instruments. All these instruments are evidence of a huge craftsmanship that can serve as a model of the present. We can say that about 2,800 of these historical instruments are now under the care of the National Museum, but then there is a group of about a thousand musical instruments that are scattered in more than a hundred objects, where they are available to see the public, but on the other hand, there are a hundred teams taking care of them and they have different levels of care that they can provide. Among these thousands of instruments is more than a third of the world's importance. I therefore ask, Minister, what guarantee does the Ministry of Culture give for the protection of such a fragile heritage when, in several, I suspect, twelve expert commissions that play the role of an advisory body of the Ministry are currently not one expert on historical musical instruments. I believe that although it is a quantity small part of our cultural heritage, this care must not be small either. And there is no argument for me - I also think that the Ministry should be proactive in monitoring and methodologically helping to protect these historical musical instruments and that we should not wait for someone to notice, as it is on one lock, that a valuable piano is treated as a table in the depositary, because it is just an old piano. So I ask, Minister, what guarantee do you give in your expert groups to protect these historical musical instruments? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u73	Good afternoon. I thank Mrs Nováková and ask the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u74	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of movable cultural heritage is supported by the Integrated System for the Protection of Modular Cultural Heritage, ISO abbreviation, in the following sub-programmes: ISO A - the security of objects containing objects of movable cultural heritage, security systems and mechanical barriers, ISO B - the registration and documentation of movable cultural heritage, ISO C - the purchase of objects of cultural value of extraordinary importance and ISO D - preventive protection against adverse environmental effects. From the ISO D sub-programme, resources are provided for the equipment and improvement of restoration, conservation and preparation workplaces, for the equipment of depositories and permanent exhibitions of museums and galleries required by the technology, for the equipment of the central depositaries of the National Heritage Institute and for the demanding restoration, preservation and preparation of collection items. Overall, 40 million are allocated to ISO programmes under the Ministry of Culture budget in 2016. Crowns. Of which, specifically, to the ISO D 15 million programme. Crowns. Compared to 2015, this is a 50% increase in funding for these programmes. [[16.10 hours]] Historical musical instruments are also part of the cultural heritage supported by the above programmes. Out of a total of 8 miles. 302 thousand. The amount of CZK received from the ISO D sub-programme of the National Museum between 2009 and 2014 was 680 thousand. intended for the restoration of musical instruments. An additional amount of 1 million. 682 thousand. CZK was earmarked for the equipment of the depositories of the Czech Museum of Music. The total financial support of the National Museum from the sub-programme ISO D from 2009 to 2014 was therefore 28.5 % for the Czech Museum of Music. Last year, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the National Museum, the Czech Museum of Music and the National Monument Institute, established a methodological centre for documentation of preservation and restoration of musical instruments and supported its activities financially. This methodological centre is intended to support all owners of historical musical instruments at national and regional level. This means that just last year we focused heavily on the issue of musical instruments in order to give them adequate care. And as for the workers who are concerned with this care, I can say that according to the information I have from our contribution organisations, these are people who are experts on the issue they are dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u75	I thank the Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, this is not even a supplementary question, or indeed. Now that we're discussing press 666, protecting the monument fund, we can't just talk about numbers, financial amounts, etc., but we also have to talk about people. If I open the pages of the Ministry of Culture and look for who's in the advisory bodies, then don't be angry, somehow preserve, protect, etc. Harp or old hammer piano is something else, and it doesn't strike me as a fully qualified person who can protect or repair a church, etc. I still didn't get the answer to the question. If you really are sure, Minister, that these experts are in your advisory bodies. [[Time warning]] It's a really big specialty, and I think, from my point of view, when I look at it, it's missing. And I would strictly separate the National Museum and monuments that are spread throughout the Czech Republic. There's no experts there at all. [[It's time warning again.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u77	Thank you, ma'am. I ask the Minister for his follow-up answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u78	Thank you. I fully agree with my colleague Nováková. It is really a wide range of activities that our contribution organizations, which we have a total of 29, carry out, from classical conservation care to specialized workplaces. One of them is just that last year established Methodical Center documentation, preservation and restoration of musical instruments. The Czech Museum of Music belongs to the National Museum, but it is a specialized workplace which deals primarily with the issue of this cultural heritage - musical one. This means that workers who work in this newly established methodological centre are, of course, people trained on the issue of care and historical musical instruments. I fully agree that, of course, the accents that are based on the care of musical instruments are somewhat different from the accents that are based on the care of building monuments. However, it all fits into the broad area of care for cultural heritage, and it needs to be treated very sensitively. A distinction should be made between specializations. So again, I agree with what Mrs Nováková said. The point is that specialized workplaces have professionals, and we are also trying to do so. I believe that this is the case with regard to the Methodical Centre of Documentation, Conservation and Restoration of Musical Instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u79	Thank you, Minister. The third interview will be given by Mr Jan Chvojka, who will interpel the present Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the issue of the migration crisis. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, Minister. I have a question for you which, of course, moves the Czech Republic. Not only do ordinary citizens, voters, fellow party members, but other people come to my office in the region, and they ask me what I think is probably the most important thing these days. They believe that the migration crisis is not slowing down and estimates of the number of migrants who could join the EU illegally are approaching the figures of 2015. Not only do I, but I am also interested in what EU plans are to address the situation. They are interested if the proposed solutions do not work, how we can solve the situation differently. And we're also interested in what our government is proposing, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u81	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, how are you going to handle this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u82	Such a very difficult question from Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating the migration crisis here for many hours. Unfortunately, we didn't get the floor through technical questions. I understand the interest of the Members and Members on this subject, and I am very pleased that I can express myself more widely in the interpellations. Mr President, our recipe is still the same. It's been the same for months. And unfortunately, we were unable to find consensus within European states a few months ago, and now it seems that it is shining for better times, because what the Czech Republic has been saying for at least eight months is finally starting to accentuate some other European states, the decisive ones. We may not be able to see them say, "The Čech were right or the Slovák were right. But it doesn't really matter. This is in this migration crisis - either we all win or we all lose. The solution is simple. I am coming back again, and I have said this many times in the past, after the attacks in France to the reaction of Charlie Hebdo, representatives of the great European states and the United States have gathered, and this has resulted in a clear message - that Europe should better protect its external borders. Since then, perhaps we have moved on to the fact that the European Commission has finally assessed that Greece has failed to fulfil its role and function and that there is a need for a very strong dialogue with Greece in order to correct it. As my friend and colleague, the Slovak Interior Minister says, we built a large apartment building with 28 flats and forgot that we didn't control the keys to the main entrance. And if we fail to restore control of Schengen entry, then it will happen that individual states will start locking and restoring borders, and that is the end of the Schengen area in the first stage, and in the second stage, from my point of view and the end of Europe, as we know it. For the Czech Republic, if this were to happen, it would have huge economic impacts. We are an open economy, an export economy, and any de facto blockade on our borders and for trade would mean a dramatic reduction in the Czech Republic's competitiveness. On the other hand, if the Member States of Europe decide to defend their borders more and it should mean any risk to the Czech Republic, we are ready for the same steps. We hate to make them, but we're ready. We're ready. We are currently describing infrastructure at the border of the Czech Republic. Infrastructure at the border with Austria is described. We've been practicing the partial closure of the border with Austria and restoring control to a greater extent than it is now. We are ready to send police reinforcements and an army there within five hours so that this border is more controlled. That's the worst-case scenario I've ever seen. But we are also prepared for this, because we need to prepare for those scenarios that we may not like, but for the safety of the Czech Republic it is also necessary to rehearse these things and be prepared for them. [[16.20 hours]] For us, it is a priority to restore control of the Schengen area. In the first stage, to force Greece to fulfil its obligations. We've been talking about so-called hotspots for a long time. There were supposed to be eleven, three of them functional. And I'm afraid the three aren't as functional as we imagined. We have been criticized for the system of detention, that is to say, a system where a migrant who clearly declares that she does not want to stay in a country that she does not want to stay, is detained and, according to the Dublin provisions, or interstate provisions between states, is returned either to the State where she entered Schengen for the first time or to the State from which she came to the Czech Republic. Without this detachment, without restricting these people to freedom until the matter is settled and they are returned either in variant one or in variant two, hotspots can never work because they will only become registration centers of poor quality, where those people, ad one, will not give true data, because the honest ones will of course turn them in and those who want to hide their origin, whether it is nationality or their history, will cover it very effectively in the very fast sequence of how these checks are carried out today. This means that we need hotspots to start working in the next few weeks, and that European countries bite into that sour apple and clearly agree that hotspots will also work as a detention device. This was also the direction of the V4 agreement, that without hotspots being a detection and we were able to really find out who was coming to us and whether he had refugee status or economic migrants, without it, we were unable to set up the system to function properly. If Greece fails to agree and restore -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u83	Time, Minister. Even if you're listening very well, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u84	You asked me to explain, so I tried to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u85	You're very kind, thank you. The Member has an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u86	That's right, thank you. The Minister will still have a chance to finish what he missed. First of all, I would like to thank you for his comprehensive answer. I think that his approach, namely the Czech Government's approach, is very pragmatic and reasonable and positive for the Czech Republic. Finally, some personal compliments from the Minister of the Interior. I very much appreciate it, and of course every minister does not do this, even though this subject, which he has in his mind, is very intense and is probably the most bothersome citizens of the Czech Republic, I appreciate that he goes to the region and tries to explain the progress of our government to ordinary citizens and not only here in our House. This way I invite him to Chrudim, where I would very much like to welcome him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u87	Please, Minister, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u88	I'm sorry, I always get excited about the subject, and it's a long story. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, the recipe for the migration crisis is to protect the external border, to know who is coming to us so that we can clearly define who needs help and who only wants to improve his life and is a so-called economic migrant, and to learn to return those economic migrants very quickly and very effectively to the countries of origin. It's a recipe for the crisis that's here. And I firmly hope that what we are seeing today, that the European Commission admits that more than half of the people coming are economic migrants, that we have clearly named the problem that Greece is not working, that this may mean a turn for the better, and that Europe will take effective measures that we will be part of to be able to cope with this crisis. After this crisis, a crisis may come up, and if we do not take those measures, the answer to your question, Mr President, is that those figures next year can be comparable to last year, even higher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u89	I thank the Minister and we will proceed to the fourth interview where Mrs Markéta Adamová will interpel Mrs Labor and Social Affairs Minister Michala Marksová on the Social Services Act. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u90	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have had two interpelations, and since the other one has been drawn in such a order that it will certainly not get its turn, I will try to connect them to one and handle two questions. Both relate to the care allowance, so the amendments to the Social Services Act. People are turning to me now, and they are looking before to the employment authorities to apply for a care allowance, who, after a few weeks or even months in the Labour Office's resolution, will read that the proceedings on the application for admission are being interrupted because the Czech Social Security Administration has not provided an assessment of the degree of dependence. The proceedings are then suspended until such an assessment has been received by the Authority for an indefinite period, which I think is at least unfair to these people, although according to the Administrative Rules of Procedure it seems to be quite alright. However, the applicant does not know how and when and whether his application will be decided, nor does he have this basic information. It does not have the right to appeal as it cannot appeal against the stay of proceedings. The problem in the field of assessors and the fact that dealing with them is lengthy and the assessment really takes a very long time is a well-known fact. I would like to know what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has done in the last two years, i.e. since you served as Minister, in this matter. Whether there is currently an alternative to how the issue of opinions would speed up and how to deal with this matter. My next question goes to the amendment that we discussed this week at first reading, when I asked you in my contribution to the analysis with which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came to the number, or to the figures of 10 percent increase in this social benefit. I wonder if this analysis exists because you didn't respond to my question in the discussion or take the final word, so I'm asking you now if there is, if you could give it to me. [[Vice-President Gazdík points to the time]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u91	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u92	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Members. If I take it from the end, as far as the 10 percent is concerned. Since the care allowance receives about 330 thousand. people and in 2015 it was a total of 21 billion, so it is a large and insignificant sum in the state budget, the 10 percent was not the result of any analysis, it really was the result of a discussion and some compromise with the National Council for Disabilities and with what now, at the moment, can carry the state budget. It really is, and as you know, we talked about it first, or that it would be 5 per cent twice in a row, and then we came to the point that it would be at least 10 per cent. So it's kind of like first aid, you might say. As far as the second question is concerned, it is, of course, very difficult and painful. This little amendment to the Social Services Act, where the 10 percent is now, is what I'm saying, first aid. Otherwise, there is going to be a big system amendment to the Social Services Act, where one of the areas that we are dealing with is just a shortening of the time of management of care contributions and actually a change in the system, because there is a huge problem with opinion doctors. Not only are there few, but a really large part of them will retire soon and be a big problem. So the change is so that much more emphasis is placed on social investigations, it could be done by people who have graduated from, for example, a health-social faculty in order to improve the situation. Otherwise, I believe that these cases, because, again, the huge amount they judge are still individual cases for those numbers, however I certainly don't make it easy, because it also happens to us that the family is asking for a care allowance, and before it's done, the person will actually die. So we're really doing everything we can to avoid it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u93	Thank you, Minister. Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u94	I'll fill in the questions on both of those questions. One thing is that you're actually adding 10 percent across the board, so if you haven't considered choosing a differentiated approach to both groups and age categories, because it's often said now that the care allowance wasn't, I mean, eight, some say even ten years, increased. She's not entirely true. He was raised at certain levels, in one he was reduced again and it was always just after an analysis of who needed more help and who, on the other hand, we say so much will not be damaged unless he was raised. So whether or not you're thinking about a differentiated approach. [[16.30 hours]] The second question goes back to the medical examiners, or rather, it is such an incentive that you do not neglect the control of the medical examiners, because if you continue to distribute this authority to non-medical workers, I fear that in that case the system could only be better controlled to make it work better now, that it might not be a question of changing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u95	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u96	At this point, as it is set up, I really believe that a change of law is needed. Otherwise, we may have changed the methodology so that it doesn't become such excesses as that person is completely paralyzed for the whole body, but he's mentally completely in his right mind and he doesn't get the highest degree. I ruled that out without the path of law change, but we think there's no other way of doing it now. And otherwise, as far as the idea of an increase is concerned, yes, it was also the subject of discussion. Given how long the contribution has not actually been increased, we have actually agreed for the moment in the broad group of stakeholders that it will increase across borders, because the 10 percent is not so much, but in the future we also consider the big amendment especially about a group of people who require 24-hour assistance and who can't pay for it even with the highest care allowance, and then it is dealt with by various subsidies and from private sources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mr Petr Kudela, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, will give the fifth interview in relation to the approval of the municipality in the addition to housing and compliance with the law. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u98	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government. Minister, the Chamber of Deputies discussed in the autumn of 2014 the House press, an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need. The law was declared on 19. 11. 2014 under number 252/2014. Lawmakers in this law gave municipalities the right to comment on applicants for a housing supplement. The municipalities enjoyed using this provision, but it caused a wave of resentment for the applicants and a kind of storm. You have written by your recommendation that this position of municipalities should be regarded as merely a non-binding expression of the municipality, and you yourself point out that this is a kind of contradiction between practice and legislation, and it is necessary to amend this legal provision. So I want to ask what condition we are in, and I also want to draw attention to the expected position of the municipalities that would like to take advantage of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u99	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Interior shortly after the entry into force of Act No. 252/2014 Coll., which was the approval of the municipality by the parliamentary amendment, pursuant to § 33 para. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs gave an opinion in which it identified the approval of the municipality as a binding opinion issued in the separate jurisdiction of the municipality. However, as it turned out, this interpretation was accompanied by a number of practical problems which would make the municipality's consent in practice unapplicable. The Administrative Rules do not provide for binding opinions to be issued in a separate capacity. Thus, the legislation would not provide sufficient legal protection to the persons concerned by the opposition of the municipality. After the approval of the municipality was discussed by the Advisory Board of the Interior Minister on the Administrative Rules, whose members are experts on administrative law, and also by the Legislative Council of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior concluded that such an interpretation should be chosen which would take into account, as far as possible, both the constitutional rights of the applicant for a housing supplement and the right of the municipality to comment on the procedure in which this supplement is decided. For the reasons set out above: The Ministry of the Interior recommended that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs be based on the interpretation provided by the Advisory Board of the Minister of the Interior to the Administrative Rules and consider the approval of the municipality as a non-binding expression of the speech and will of the municipality in this proceedings, i.e. the procedure for granting an additional payment on housing. At the same time, in line with the Government's Legislative Council, the Ministry of the Interior recommended the accelerated adoption of an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, which will eliminate the most fundamental shortcomings of this legislation. This law is therefore in the spirit of my colleague, and the question of the amendment should be directed at her. The Ministry of the Interior therefore did not withdraw their competence from the municipalities, the municipalities continue to have the possibility to grant or refuse approval. The Ministry of the Interior only provided a non-binding legal opinion on the nature of this consent and the consequences of its failure to grant it. The fundamental problem is therefore to be seen above all in the adopted law, which has anchored the institute of approval of the municipality without any more detailed regulation. Once again, I would like to remind you that this was given in the context of a comment procedure, in a proposal that amended the original amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as a gesture of the law on aid in material distress, has prepared an amendment that should address these fundamental shortcomings. I am not sure how the legislative process will take place, and here it really is a question for Mrs Tominová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u101	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, do you have an additional question? You don't. Mrs Zuzana Kailová will give the sixth interview, and she will also intersect Minister Milan Chovanec on the development of migration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u102	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I also have an interview on migration this time, because this topic resonates with companies and unfortunately I think it will resonate with companies this year. Experts agree that migration in the target countries can endanger internal stability and security in a fundamental way as such. Although we know that the Czech Republic is not a target country for the vast majority of refugees, but only a transit country, I would still like to ask you how the situation in the area of illegal migration has developed in recent months and what the current situation is. I also wonder how many people have asked for international protection in the Czech Republic recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u103	Thank you. I'll ask the minister. Minister, you and migration are popular in the House of Deputies. I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u104	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a total of 8 563 people were provided last year for illegal migration in the territory of the Czech Republic, which is an increase of almost 80 per cent compared to the previous year, i.e. with 2014, mainly due to illegal residents, which occurred in 97 per cent of the cases. The reason for the increase in the number of persons in the context of illegal migration in 2015 was mainly a high number of seizures of illegal migrants during transit migration through our territory. In each month, the number of persons found was distributed unevenly. The situation culminated in August, when almost 1,800 people were captured. Subsequently there was a gradual decline and in December these seizures were already counted in units of persons. Overall, this monthly average then decreased from 1,800 in August to less than 400. The area of regional distribution was also very diverse. In particular, the seizures were carried out in the South Moravian and South Bohemian regions, i.e. in the regions adjacent to the national border with Austria. Thus, the wave of illegal transit migration in the Czech Republic reached a peak, as I said, in July to September last year, in the second half of September there was a decline and stabilisation, and this decline and stabilisation has continued since then until now. The captures in recent days are either one, two or zero, which means the captures are very small. The reason that at that time, i.e. in the summer months, such a decline occurred was that Hungary had completed the construction of the fence and the direct migration route thus leads through Slovenia and Austria to the Federal Republic of Germany. From the beginning of the last measures announced on 17 June to 27 January 2016, 3 332 persons were provided for transit illegal migration. [[16.40 hours]] The last measure currently mentioned in Germany and Austria means strengthening security between Austria, Germany and between Austria and Slovenia should not affect the deterioration of the migration position of the Czech Republic in the future. Rather, this will mean some problems and destabilisation of Slovenia, on whose territory migrants can then accumulate, which will be designated as economic migrants by the Austrian authorities. The situation in the Czech Republic, as I said, is currently calm, since 27 January only 38 foreigners have been provided under transit illegal migration. The numbers of persons in the facilities for securing foreigners move below 100 places, to date there are no children, that is, there are only women and men, children currently have no children in detention. In 2015, 1,525 people applied for international protection in the Czech Republic, most of which were Ukrajinec, 46 %, Syřan 9 %, citizens of Kuba 8 %. Since the beginning of this year 91 people have applied for international protection, of which 35 were from Ukraine, 15 from Iraq, 10 from Cuba and the Syrians this year were 5 people. The only major negation and negativity I see and predict is the increased migration from Afghanistan, where criminal groups that used to smuggle drugs and smuggle them even now have succeeded in taking on de facto transfer of persons to their pseudo-business. Unfortunately, Afghanistan has currently created a very functional system for transferring people to Europe. I would like to remind you that Afghánec live a large number outside their homes. There are currently 1.5 million in Pakistan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u105	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam. [[Member Kail from the post: I do not.]] No, no, thank you, Madame and Minister. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the impact of the anti-smoking law on the production of beer, will give the seventh interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u106	Good day, colleagues, colleagues, Mr President. Minister, the government is gradually putting more and more responsibilities on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It is the subject of our debates on mandatory VAT reporting, about EET, according to my information as well as the wine law, as approved by the government, will have a very hard impact on small winemakers, they are very disgusted with the behaviour of the Ministry of Agriculture, on how the government approved this bill, which limits and will limit the chances of business especially small winemakers in the future. And now in the Anti-Smoker Act, or if you want to ban the sale of alcohol at a number of public events in the bill on health protection against the harmful effects of tobacco, alcohol and other addictive substances, in the integrated drug policy. So you won't buy in the future if this government proposal passes, such as welded wine or grog etc. At sports events where many people go to cheer, etc., you can't buy them anymore. And all you're proposing or suggesting is that there will be a maximum chance of buying a ten-degree beer, because the bill says directly that it will be possible to sell alcohol up to 4 percent of the volume ethanol. That means some ten-degree beers will be covered, but no other alcohol will. In the law, we didn't notice it originally, it's hard written. It's hard written. And so I want to ask you, Minister, because nothing about the impact on the beer or wine sector in the explanatory memorandum exists, whether or not such an analysis exists. I was just talking about it with the representatives of the Beer Union who pointed out this fact, and you didn't respond. So I ask whether or not such an analysis exists and whether you are aware of the effects of such a ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u107	I thank Mr Bendl. I'll ask the Minister of Agriculture. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u108	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have to answer the interview of Mr Bendl, who also put a small insertion into this here, which involved vintners, and I will definitely answer it in February at the big meeting with all the winemakers in Velké Bílovice, personally with my colleagues, to the small winemakers from Bohemia and Moravia, the novel will not be adversely affected, or vice versa. Their position will be much better and more protected. As far as your question is concerned, I'll admit it would probably be a good idea for him to be more directed at the Ministry of Health, because that's their gesture. However, I understand the overlap you're talking about in our department. It has qualifiedly estimated what will happen and what impact it will have on the beer, wine and other alcohol consumption sector, de facto I think no study is able to evaluate. However, there is also a study from Charles University, which says that, on the contrary, the positive effects of this legal standard can be seen, that, for example, visits to restaurants can increase by 3 to 6 percent and thus the consumption of certain alcohol products may increase. Because I think, and it is from my personal experience that a lot of clients, especially parents and families with children, who logically do not go to restaurants where they smoke, and therefore these restaurants lose potential customers. And I must say that I do not have any information in the context of the fact that some countries that have introduced restrictions on smoking, that there might be a decline in consumption of beer or other alcohol products in Belgium. I didn't notice that kind of information. When we looked at consumption in European countries, this did not happen after the introduction of this ban here. So to clearly state what behaviour will be with consumers, I think that no one is able to define this precisely. So I guess that's how much of my reaction to what you've been intersecting here. I guess that's all I'm gonna be able to answer at this point. I would merely argue with what you said, that only all these measures are restrictive, regulatory, and which worsen the business environment in the Czech Republic. In principle, I will not agree with you, because I know a lot of operators of establishments, restaurants and hospitality who come to me and tell me how to do business when I do all the accounting honestly, everything properly to this state tax and I have about 10 meters next to me competition, where I can prove that this is not the case. And to be able to check out every establishment every year, so that we can say to the state, do this control activity, and within the control tools, force entrepreneurs who do not want to behave fairly to behave like this, simply with regard to the capacity of employees from Customs and Financial Administration is not possible. So then it's a question of how the state must be able to set up some tools that will lead to the business environment being cultivated, so that entrepreneurs behave fairly towards themselves and against the state, because the laws are clear. As the law on business - we do for profit. The Accounting Act clearly states what the obligations of the undertaking during the sale, the registration of customs documents, etc. are. I say this from the experience of a man who was in business for 11 years until recently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u109	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u110	The state is unable to protect the Prime Minister's email, let alone doubt that it will be able to protect data that all entrepreneurs will send to one data centre. Then you take off everyone's clothes and you see how much they buy from them, and it's about the honest ones, and then they pay for it. I am deeply convinced of that. And for those of you who don't believe what I'm saying here, I'm just quoting part of the law to you because I'm running out of time. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, it shall be prohibited to sell or serve alcoholic beverages - and I shall now say - among other things, open sporting events in public, except for alcoholic beverages containing not more than 4 per cent volume ethanol, i.e. a maximum of ten beer. You can't just buy a welder or anything else in there. And I could quote more and more here, because at the fair, you won't be buying anything at all. [[Unintelligible voices from the diaper.]] It doesn't apply to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u111	I'll ask the Minister for an additional answer if we can buy or not at the fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u112	Thank you. So I have to say that what I said at the outset should be directed at the petitioner, in this case, to the Minister of Health. However, my colleagues are now telling me on this matter, so that, let's say, these things are not regulated so strictly, amendments will be tabled so that we can have not only ten-stage beer, but also twelve-stage beer, respectively, at the fair. probably with a higher alcohol content than four percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u113	Thank you. We're getting to the eighth interpellation. Mr Radim Holeček will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek on the victims of pyramid companies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u114	Dear Minister, I have received information that the Lyones case is being discussed in the Austrian Parliament. Thousands of victims are rising, demanding that the funds be put back. In Bohemia, Lyonness is also very active, and here too there is a plethora of victims who are slowly beginning to claim their rights. The Austrian Commercial Court in Vienna a year ago recognised a total of 61 provisions of the business conditions of Lyones as invalid. Lyonness promises its clients discounts or a refund of a certain amount of purchase from their partners, many consumer organizations, especially Verein für Konsumenteninformation, who sued the company, but consider it a well-masked pyramid scheme. Lyoness in many countries around the world, such as Australia, Lithuania, Poland and home Austria, was investigated on suspicion of operating a pyramid scheme. While the local Chamber of Commerce in Poland called Lyonness a pyramid scheme, in other countries the company has avoided similar verdicts so far. Do you have any up-to-date information on how the Czech government stands up to pyramid or aircraft practices? What tools do you use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u115	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Interpelling, with companies building their market activities on the pyramid scheme, our consumers have been meeting since the early 1990s. In essence, it is a fraudulent long-term unsustainable mechanism that builds on the involvement of other participants in a game that sooner or later has to end, and only participants standing at the top of the pyramid can make money on it. When Directive 2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers in the internal market was adopted in 2005, the pyramid programme was explicitly referred to as one of the misleading commercial practices the use of which against consumers is prohibited. Subsequently, this directive was transposed into Act No. 634/1998 Coll., on Consumer Protection. It is stated that an entrepreneur who creates, operates or promotes a programme in which the reward for consumers depends mainly on obtaining other consumers into the programme, not on selling or consumption of products, is engaged in a prohibited commercial practice and can be sanctioned for this violation of the law up to CZK 5 million. So the state's position on these things is generally clear. Supervision of compliance with the provisions on unfair commercial practices on consumer protection is carried out by Czech Trade Inspections and other supervisory authorities. Since it is a multilevel marketing, a grey zone in which there are a number of mutations of different practices, it is difficult to assess each individual case, between prohibited pyramid programs and certain commercial practices that are not illegal. In statistics of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, cases of pyramid games investigated are not recorded and data would need to be obtained from documentation. However, the fact that this supervisory authority pays particular attention to unfair commercial practices is demonstrated by an increase in the number of checks. In 2014, 6 463 such targeted controls were carried out and 10 737 in the previous year. In particular, regarding the Swiss company Lyonness, which is registered in the Czech Commercial Register, however, one hundred percent of the company has its registered office in Switzerland, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority conducted an investigation on the basis of the submission of the law firm AK Dvořák and partners between 2014 and 2015. In this particular case, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority referred the petitioner to the settlement of the dispute by judicial means, however, following the submission, it conducted an investigation as to whether it was not a pyramidal programme. The investigation concluded that the scheme operated by Lyons Europe AG in Switzerland does not bear the characteristics of a pyramid scheme within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act. The investigation also had international aspects. However, as has already been said in the interview, the final word in this grey zone will, of course, have an independent court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u117	Thank you, Minister. The Member feels satisfied. He doesn't have an additional question. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr. Jiří Petrů will intersect Minister Milan Chovanec in the matter of hotspots. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u118	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Ministers of the Interior of Visegrad Squares of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, together with you, agreed in their joint memorandum adopted at the last meeting in Prague that in the fight against illegal migration, the V4 believes it is a priority to fulfil the commitment to launching functional detention centres at the external borders of the European Union. Interior Ministers V4 also agreed that these detention centres, sometimes also referred to the collection centres of the European Union, the so-called hotspots, must also be detention facilities, namely that migrants here will be limited to movement and freedom until their identity is verified and verified. Slovak Interior Minister Kaliňák warned that detention centres should prevent cases where refugees are registered in different locations under different identities or when they are not registered at all. At the same time, the misuse of false Syrian passports should be reduced. Another vital and important function of detention centres should be the distinction between war refugees and economic migrants. It is generally known that today's hotspots in Italy and Greece are working very imperfectly and laxly, their numbers are inadequate and without the very strong intervention of the European Commission and all Member States, the critical situation with the influx of refugees will not change or improve. There is also talk in this context about the creation of such centres in Bulgaria. Dear Minister, in this context I am interested in whether and what the participation of the Czech Republic in the establishment of detention centres in Italy and Greece or another country is, and how the establishment of these centres continues. The next question is what emergency option the Czech Republic and other V4 countries have prepared if the hotspot situation does not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u119	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, your favorite subject. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would be very happy if this topic did not have to be addressed at all and if it did not exist. Unfortunately, there is. And if we don't deal with it, it's going to come back and remind us of it in an ever bigger and worse form. Today, the European Commission and its representatives have said that - if the media are telling the truth - 60 percent of the people coming to Europe are economic refugees, that is, people who have decided to gain a better life with their resettlement and find a new home in Europe. This means that Europe no longer has the capacity to help the needy, and de facto it becomes a problem that is cycling, which cannot be solved by any other means than by the security of the external border. I've already talked about this in my previous performances. The current situation is that by the end of the year 11 hotspots were to be operational, which was a commitment from the European Commission. These hotspots should be in Italy and Greece. The situation that is true to date is that the hotspots are functional three in Italy and one hotspot is in Greece on the island of Lesbos. Neither of these hotspots is a detection device, it is only a registration device. More than 160,000 migrants arrived in Sweden last year, and according to the Swedish Interior Minister, only 30 percent of them had a registration. That is, if you look at them entering Schengen in Greece, going through all of Europe, going to Sweden, only 30 percent of these people have a registration. We can doubt the quality of these registrations and we will be right. One example for all, and I've said it several times. My Slovak colleague Kaliňák said they caught a man in a Romani settlement who had four identification cards for four identities and four nationalities. Our police officers in Slovenia, when I spoke to them, caught, among other things, a man who had an Iraqi passport in his hand and had a Greek document issued for Syrian nationality. When they asked him how it was possible, he told them that the Řek did not ask him for the passport and that at that time the Syřan had a simpler passage through Europe, so he reported to the Syřan. This has to stop. That means we've got four hotspots out of eleven, and neither of them is doing the role of a detachment that we've been talking about here. [[17,00 hours]] The Czech Republic has been offering its experts for a long time, both to EASO and to Frontex. We responded to every request that came instantly. We've nominated ten experts. Our people served at EASO during Christmas. We were one of the few member countries that left their experts there during the Christmas holidays. At present, we have 25 additional experts in the hotspot field, so we have offered 35 experts to EASO, the European Agency for Migration, overall. The Czech Republic has the second highest number in the European Union, which is almost 10 percent of the required number. Six experts work for the Czech Republic in Italy and Greece. Now there are five more in hotspots, four in Italy, one in Greece. We informed the public about how these experts saw it, about a month ago. Their experience was very rusty. They described the state as de facto hotspot, as a flow facility where these people come in, they are registered, mostly the registration in Greece is not compatible with the systems of the European Union and not everyone registered in the Greek documents gets into this registration. If these hotspots are not established, if we can no longer divide migrants into refugees and economic migrants at the entrance, the pressure on our border will not decrease on the Schengen border, because those who come to Europe have a vision that even though they are not refugees, they have a real chance of staying in Europe. According to estimates, more than 10 miles are now in the territory of the European Union. people who live here illegally and who wait for expulsion sometimes for more years. Let's say sometime up to eight or ten years. That is, the question is whether it is still worth returning these people to the countries of origin after eight years of residence, when they know the language and basically somehow, illegal, integrated themselves into society. That's for a very serious debate. 43 police officers and other technical means contributed to these figures by the Czech Republic. We will continue to strongly support Frontex this year, according to the needs of the Commission. The Czech Republic continues to hold the position that the process of relocation will only be possible to start when the concept of hotspots is fully operational, i.e. a network that allows migrants to register and distribute. On the other hand, we still insist that the system of permanent mandatory quotas will not work, especially because of the unwillingness of those people to settle in countries where they do not want to be. Keeping such a person in the territory of the Czech Republic is impossible if the Schengen border works. And let us not be wrong, the European Commission's proposals that these people could only benefit from social security in the country where they were assigned will not work. The Czech 130 euros provided by the Czech Republic are not such a great motive for them to remain on our territory. They will go to Germany anyway and to other countries where they will join the grey economic zone, work black and get the money in multiple amounts. That means the mandatory quota system will never work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u121	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member have an additional question? It's not like that. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mrs Marie Pěnčíková will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec on the EIA. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u122	Thank you for the floor, hello. Dear Minister, there are 64 important transport structures in the Czech Republic where the European Union demands a new environmental impact assessment. Such an assessment could delay their construction by up to a few years. According to information, the government will now try to negotiate a special regime with the European Commission for these buildings. When the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was renegotiated a while ago, we warned the government and proposed a transitional measure to ensure that the already discussed projects would not be covered by the amendment. It was a standard measure that we put into all laws to prevent retroactivity. But you said and almost blackmailed Members with threats that the European Commission would stop drawing European funds. You and the Prime Minister didn't listen to us back then. On the contrary, you have repeated to us here several times that the EIA in this form requires the European Commission, and no further negotiations will change that. So now, Minister, I ask you, where does the optimism come from that the Commission will change its approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u123	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, thank you for asking, he won't be the first or the last. And it's a long story. But I will try to be very brief. By this decision, Amendment 39/2015, we saved an acutely threatening loss of 100 billion. Crowns, at least 100 billion. from the upcoming programming period 2007 to 2013. It's just reality. That's already proven today. Because without that, we couldn't have just finished the money. This was an important condition for drawing on all European funds. Among other things, we have also saved up to maybe 25 billion. from transport projects which have been assessed individually, this is the 23 transport projects from the upcoming programming period. Of course, I listened to you, like all my colleagues, about the fact that there are some transitional provisions. We have been intensively negotiating for three months, including lawyers, about the fact that we, too, were convinced that, by being pre-accession projects, these projects should be exempted from this obligation. But unfortunately, our legal opinions as well as our European and the Court of Justice have confirmed to us that if we went into a dispute, we would very likely lose. In other words, today, the European Union, as it did at the time, clearly states: If you want our money, you must accept our terms. And if you have projects here, and unfortunately, there are so many that have some 20-year-old environmental impact assessments, and yet it hasn't kicked into the country - and I'm following up on an interpelling with the Prime Minister who's already said it - you're unfortunately a leak in the Union and just decide whether you want the money. So it wasn't blackmail, I'd say, on my part, it was a statement of what was being negotiated. Because we managed to negotiate the compromise. Because the European Union has been saying in negotiations since the beginning: we want you to repeat all the EIA projects for all projects even under the law 100. That means all the projects before Amendment 39. And we're issuing a hundred-by-hundred certificates today, which means they've had the EIA since, say, 2002, 2003. But there really is a problem with those reviews under Law 244/1992. And here's the solution - and we're not starting the negotiations today, we've been dealing very intensively with the European Commission for about six months. I have a team of my own at the Ministry of the Environment for this, but I have to say that it is not at all easy, together with the Ministry of Transport, when there have been dozens of negotiations with the Commission, with Commissioners, etc., when the optimism, if you can say so, results from the fact that we individually want every project, and we are doing this today, to defend it before the Commission. We believe that we will succeed in those projects where there have been absolutely fundamental changes over the last 15 to 17 years, e.g. in the territory or in the project. That is what the Commission wanted there from the start. That means he'll be judging every project. But I would like to emphasise one thing. This was not a concession, it was simply a real compromise of when the Commission said from the outset: you have a basically untransmitted EIA directive into the Czech legal system for ten years and you simply repeat the EIA for 400 projects. That includes the law of 100. That's what we've been able to avert, we're dealing with a "only" forty-two-four today. Yes, it's a problem. And we knew it would be a problem. But at that moment, we put out a fire very acutely. And now we're dealing with another problem that came up with it. But I say again with full seriousness and full responsibility, if we were just as we escalated the problem a year ago, sometime in January, February, it was a few months, basically five months, so today we were probably like the Czech Republic in a situation where we did not have a hundred billion out of European funds, from operational programmes 2007 to 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u125	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u126	Yes, I understand that, only when I think of your statements before that year and a half about, so I wouldn't say that you were so pessimistic and that you were expecting such an impact, because at that time you said that there would be no problem at all, but now that I'm summing it up, you're actually telling us that the European Commission hasn't changed its approach at all, that we're where we were, and now you're trying to do it individually for individual projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u127	Thank you. Master, I ask for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u128	Yes, it is, Madame. The European Commission keeps saying: you must comply with European law in that those projects must comply with the EIA Directive, regardless of the fact that they are pre-accession projects before the Czech Republic joins the European Union, because you are asking for money when you are members, and in addition, at a time when those projects, after those, say, 17 years, do not often have a territorial decision, let alone a building permit. And we say: We are now trying to individually on these projects, and we have been doing this for months now, to prepare such arguments that will convince the Commission that many of these projects can be found in those follow-up procedures, especially in the building procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u129	Thank you, Minister. Yes, we'll proceed to the next, eleventh interpellation. Mr Karel Šidlo will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek in support of the participation of companies in trade fairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u130	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, export support is definitely linked to the promotion of the participation of companies in trade fairs and this support has been implemented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade for many years and supports this participation of our Czech companies in selected trade fairs. These are mainly consumer goods and engineering. In the past, it was customary that before the end of the year it was established which fairs and how much this aid was issued. It was usually mainly about the payment of the exhibition space. There has been a major change this year. According to information from CzechTrade, the aid for 2016 will be decided surprisingly only in May this year. For example, the trade fair in Frankfurt takes place in February and it is clear that such a term is with a cross after a funeral. That is why I ask you, Minister first: Did you really write off this year's support for foreign trade fairs? Two: if so, why? Thirdly, what measures will you take in order to continue support for businesses in the coming years? Fourth? How will the Ministry of Industry and Trade develop support for exports of Czech companies in the following years, especially those based in the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr Interpelative, I would like to add to your question that the MIT has long ensured the programme of Czech official participation in international trade fairs and exhibitions abroad, the main objective of which is to support Czech companies in access to foreign markets and to contribute to the diversification of Czech exports and the gradual reduction of dependence on EU markets, which reached 84,5 % last year. In this way, the MIT will ensure about three dozen events across different industries, including new perspectives such as biotechnology or nanotechnology. The content content of the programme is planned and published on the MIT website until the end of 2017, while preparations for 2018 are currently under way. Due to the system of selection of supported trade fairs, the list of official trade fair participations fully reflects the current needs of Czech exporters. The design of trade fairs is mainly presented by the business public itself through trade associations and associations. In addition to the indicated interest of business representation, the concept of territorial priorities and sectoral opportunities, as well as the evaluation of official participations already in progress, works as another key criterion for selection. Experience has shown that the promotion of trade fair participation is among the most popular but also the most effective means of supporting Czech exporters. For example, in 2014 alone, the programme of Czech official participation enabled more than 300 Czech entities from 18 industrial fields to support trade fairs in 19 countries of the world. In addition, last year, the MIT responded flexibly to the events in the world when it included the FIHAV trade fair in Cuba and together with the Confederation of Industry and Transport organized an accompanying mission of Czech entrepreneurs. Another promising territory where we want to concentrate the support of exporters is Iran, which I visited a few days ago with a large business delegation. So this is what the MIT does. In addition to the described programme of Czech official participations, complementary projects provided by CzechTrade are also working, which use funding from European Union funds. Last year, with a respectable balance of 120 fairs realized in 40 countries of the world and 2 146 supported Czech entities, the project JHA 2013-2014 was completed. At the moment, however, the preparation of the follow-up project Novum, which is expected to start this year. In other words, what is financed from national resources through the MIT, of course, is going on as in previous years, the supplementary programme that runs through CzechTrade, there is the problem of switching to the new programming period of the EU, and there is actually some delay. However, we assume that in April, at the latest in May, it will run as it did before. As far as Frankfurt is concerned, I assume that Ambiente is not held until February 2017, so it should not be a problem. The necessary measures have already been taken, the programme of Czech official participations is currently planned until the end of 2017 and the Novum project for the period 2016 to 2018 is in preparation. That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u133	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u134	Minister, thank you for your explanation, but I have one additional question on the Novum programme. I understand that this is supported by European funds, but I would like to ask you about the participation already in progress. Will they also be able to apply retrospectively for money from the program? Will that be possible?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u135	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, will that be possible?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u136	Dear Member, subject to further verification by the Bureau, I am almost certain of that, unfortunately, it cannot be reimbursed retrospectively. This is the money of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u137	So, thank you to the Minister, Mr Member. Mr Leoš Heger, who will interpel the Minister of Health, Svatopluk Němeček, on the payment of cannabis treatment, will give the 12th interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u138	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Němeček, in recent months, the Ministry of Health has informed the Civil Association to support cannabis treatment that the SÚKLu will provide the basis for deciding on the reimbursement of this treatment from public health insurance in classical administrative proceedings. 11. 1. this year, a report appeared in the media that you intend to negotiate with health insurance companies on the reimbursement of cannabis medicinal products in selected groups of patients, in the form of a pilot project. I would therefore like to ask whether the SÚKL has already received these documents, have been evaluated and whether they contain clear evidence of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the treatment. And if so, for which group of patients in the Czech Republic. If not, I would ask how the Ministry intends to support these financial projects, because, as far as I know, it is not legally authorized to organise something like this itself, and it does not belong to a group that it supports in the form of various health grants. And I would just like to remind you that the Czech Medical Chamber is strongly negative on this issue. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u139	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to a report published by the Czech Press Office and a number of Czech media on 23 December 2015, the KOPAC patient association, or cannabis patients of the State Institute for Drug Control, gave the initiative to abolish the mandatory measure of April 2013 by which the SUKL banned on a flat-rate basis the reimbursement of medical cannabis, or individually produced medicinal products containing it, in May 2013. Your question is therefore somewhat inaccurately formulated. Kopac did not initiate the payment of medical cannabis and preparations thereof, but initiated the abolition of the ban on its remuneration issued by the SÚKL in April 2013. I will remind you that he issued it despite extensive objections by almost 20 organizations, government bodies, scientists and doctors. Some of the individuals who were not heard by SÚKLEM in 2013 have now submitted extensive breakdowns as members of the Board of Directors of KOPAC, supporting their initiative to abolish the generally binding measure. Specifically, it is signed by profesor MUDr. Richard Rokyta, President of the Czech Medical Academy and Scientific Secretary of the Czech Society for the Study and Treatment of Pain, profesor Lumír Ondřej Hanuš, discoverer of anandamid, i.e. the first identified cannabinoid created by the human body, one of the most sensitive living Czech scientists, and Dr. Zábranský as Chairman of the Board of Directors of KOPAC. According to the comments received from the relevant department of the SÚKL, the Institute is currently dealing with the complaint and the decision has not yet been taken. On 23 December, the media provided a report on the submission of the complaint for the abolition of the payment ban. As I have verified, the complaint can be found on the KOPAC website. I printed it out, and I have it for you here, if you would like to learn the validity of the argument of this association and its cited studies. As for the second question, the Ministry of Health under my leadership is not imagining anything at this point, because we are waiting for the decision of the SÚKL and possible further developments. However, we assume that KOPAC seeks to abolish the said PPE in order to initiate full or partial reimbursement of cannabis treatment in the next step. The Ministry of Health will not do so, nor will it itself organise pilot projects, because, as you rightly say, it has no legal authority to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u141	Thank you, Minister. The Member is satisfied with the answer. Thank you both. We'll proceed to the 13th interpellation. Mr. Jiří Valenta will intersect the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the activities of ambassadors of foreign countries in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, could you explain to me, as a groping layman in international politics as well as diplomacy, or at least convey an explanation of how the Czech ambassador in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway or South Korea would turn out if he were involved, for example, in the campaign against corruption, which also clearly exists there? Perhaps he would have been expelled, perhaps strongly reprimanded, some note would have come, perhaps even removal of parents in Norway. But quite seriously now. Does it not seem to you that in recent times we have registered such cases of interference with the internal affairs of our sovereign country more and more, and the Czech government is always unacceptablely benevolent to them? Do you really think, as Secretary of State, that this should be the role of a foreign diplomat in our territory? When, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, will you finally make it clear that some things are fully in the hands of the democratically elected Czech government and its electorate, a Czech citizen? By crossing or merely formal judgments of such things as the Hungarian attacks on the Benešův Decrees, today you are newly attempting to intervene in solving internal problems and other matters of our country, providing only a bear service to the Czech public. Personally, I believe that your government is able to cope with corruption, even if it can never be completely eradicated. But in this way direct interference of foreign ambassadors please do not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u143	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the minister. Minister, help the groping MP, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u144	Thank you for the interpellation. I'll try to answer it. The question was whether the activities, a campaign aimed at combating the corruption that was launched, were in fact six weeks if they were not violating the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. As far as the sovereignty of the Czech Republic is concerned, it must be assumed that the diplomatic missions we are talking about are actually obliged to abide by international law in their activities in the Czech Republic, that is the first thing. In particular, it is precisely the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and its Article 41, where all persons enjoying diplomatic advantages here have an obligation to comply with the laws and regulations of the State in which they operate. Furthermore, they are also obliged not to interfere with the internal affairs of that State. That's probably the context of the situation we're talking about. As far as the provisions of the Vienna Convention are concerned, I would like to mention, when I apply these principles to the situation, the activities of the five diplomatic missions are certainly not contrary to the legal order of the Czech Republic. Secondly, the objectives of the campaign against corruption are in line with the priorities of the Government of the Czech Republic. In fact, we are constantly and clearly promoting the fight against corruption as our program element, we have it clearly written there and, in this sense, of course, we are interested in sharing experience with these states, their experience in combating corruption. There is certainly no way to say that the target would be at odds with the priority of our government, and even with the aim that we are quite successful in meeting because, as was discussed yesterday, the Czech Republic significantly improved its perception by measuring, I believe, Transparency International, so it is not something that we would be arguing about. That is what we want, too, and it is not something that we need to question in some way. On the other hand, the organisation of diplomatic missions campaigns in the receiving state, and here I would agree a little, cannot be considered standard diplomatic practice. I imagine that at some point they can become something bordering, especially when it becomes an expression of some kind of political activism that is really at the limit of the role of diplomatic mission. In this I agree with you that maybe some elements, some acts may seem to have the impression of political activism, which I think is at the edge of what is the point of action in similar missions in the Czech Republic. If it seems to you that this thing does not force me to react harshly, it is due to the fact that it is not contrary to the law of the Czech Republic and it is not contrary even to our objectives. But the other thing is, and we can talk about it, if it happens to cross the line in some elements of what is the way to operate in diplomatic missions, and what is standard in their work. Another thing, which I would distinguish, is what you mentioned, was the announcement by the President of the Hungarian Senate concerning the decrees of the President of the Republic. I think I have a completely different relationship here, and I have a different opinion about it. However, let me say that I have made this very clear and that I have responded in an incomparably clearer way. There I believe that this is a question of something that is part of the continuity of the Czech rule of law and something that I think needs to be held as a position of the Czech Republic. I don't think we can just go over or shut up there. I see this as a serious thing. I'd make a big difference between the first case you mentioned and the second one. I would just like to refer to the fact that I believe that my reaction in the second case was absolutely clear and clear. It is also a subject for me, of course, for possible negotiations with the other side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u145	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u146	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As for the Hungarian announcement, I wouldn't go over it that hard. But take, the very reaction of Prime Minister Orbán, who began with the criticism of Benešův's decrees in 2002 and continues to do so constantly. This is one of many attacks on the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. But I wouldn't want to go back to Hungary right now. In this case of engaging ambassadors, you yourself mentioned a report by Transparency International - that this year the Czech Republic jumped 16 seats up, that the same South Korea is behind us in the ranking. And their ambassador here makes these kind of campaigns. Well, I was intrigued, and that's why I wanted an answer from you. Thank you. But you don't have to answer me now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u147	I thank both the Member and the Minister. Mr Josef Nekl will give the 14th interview. He will interpel the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec on the exemption for constructions prepared according to EIA from 2014. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, Dear Government, My Lady Foam took the wind off my sails a little bit, but I would go back to the problem a little bit more specific. And if it's possible to give me a more specific answer to two events. However, I would have said this by intersecting Minister Ťok recently on the issue of the completion of D1 on sections 136, 137, on the sections Říkovice - Přerov, Přerov - Lipník nad Bečvou, with the fact that the necessity of speeding up this construction is, in a way, vital for Přerov today not only from economic perspectives and aspects, but also from the point of view of a very poor environment, when for example. This year a smog situation was reported many times, where there is a large spread of dust particles and nitrogen oxide, i.e. there is a large incidence of respiratory diseases and even an impact on the health of citizens. During the interview, Minister Ťok just told me that in the framework of the newly adopted EIA Act on the impact of buildings on the environment, this construction will probably be suspended, especially on the section Říkovice - Přerov, because the whole situation will have to be re-checked. You answered a number of questions about what's being done, why it can't be done, how it can't be done. I will ask the first question whether the completion of D1 belongs to those that will have to be completely re-enacted, or whether the exception will be granted there because it is being processed. That's one thing. Second thing. There is a new facility for energy recovery in Pilsen. It cost a billion crowns and it can't be put into operation because it doesn't pay the EIA. So if these negotiations lead to the fact that even here it will be accelerated and can be dealt with somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u149	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u150	Thank you again for your question about the EIA. That's two things. They only seem to be connected. This thing, it's easier. I think you mean, Mr. Ambassador, the Chotíkov incinerator near Plzeň. However, since the incinerator has been repeatedly attacked for various alleged errors, today it is not so much waiting for our position, there is not so much problem to assess this matter as history and repeatedly contested for example territorial decisions, or even building permits. The construction was even to be partly financed from the Operational Programme Environment. In the end, it didn't work out, so the investor financed it himself. However, the matter was more related to the position of the European Commission towards those large combustion plants under the operational programme. So it doesn't even have anything to do with its own EIA, and there shouldn't be a time problem. The action you're talking about is really in the 64 buildings, as are many others. At this point, I cannot answer whether or not it will be in those we will be able to defend, because the negotiations will take place on 3 February next week at the European Commission. It's already about the 15th meeting, but let's say the second or third at the high level, when about 15 people from different ministries will come from Bohemia to defend the list. In the 64-construction list, we explain to the European Commission the reason why we think that it should be in the exceptional regime or in the regime where we are able to defend what was actually missing in the construction procedure, i.e. within the construction permit and possible public participation in the construction procedure. Because the buildings actually have an EIA under Law 244/1992, where the environmental impact assessment had a completely different scope, a different detail. Just in a nutshell, first the assessment had five pages, today it normally has 150. So, of course, the range is completely different. We are trying to convince the European Commission that many of those buildings where there have not been any major changes - and here, if I am not mistaken, it is some kind of change in the construction before completion, because there is actually already a partially building permit - can be resolved without having to repeat the whole EIA. Because, of course, the repetition of the EIA in the case of more complex buildings means maybe plus two years. With the simpler ones, maybe plus a year, somewhere plus two years, and maybe somewhere longer. So what concrete constructions we will eventually manage to push through so that they can be solved within the framework of the building permit, i.e. we will be given a pouvoir from the European Commission, an inch so that we can issue the certificate that it actually meets the required criteria, so the decision will come out of further negotiations which, in our view, should be concluded by the end of February at the latest, because, following that on 3 February, the continuation will be, say, further discussions on the list. And that's where our efforts lie. So unfortunately, I'm afraid I'm not going to please you right now by not knowing if this event is going to fall on that list, but we're going to know pretty soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u151	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your reply to the Minister. Of course, he can only answer what he knows. First of all, I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed, because we're gonna be waiting 27 years for that building to be kicked for the first time. So hopefully we'll get this thing going. Secondly, perhaps this means that we were right in 2014 when we said that this would cause big problems. So I hope you accept that. And thirdly, at the time, it was promised that a novel would be made that would make it easier. This means that from what you have also said to Mrs Pěnčíková, it follows that this law will not now be applied and nothing will be simplified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u154	Just a quick reaction. The law will be amended. It will be amended within the framework of the construction law, which will soon go into government. I was signing today, so he's going to the Government Legislative Council in a few days. He should be in the Chamber of Deputies within two months, so there is actually an indirect amendment to the EIA law. In addition, we are going to and want to discuss with the European Commission the possibility of a rapid amendment which, if the European Commission agrees with some of our principles, could allow the approval of the 64 projects under Law 244. This would probably be a relatively simple technical amendment, which we would prepare separately. But I just think it's important to say yes, we all knew the risks were hiding there. We did. But we were just putting out the fire that was bigger. That's right. I'll just admit it. And it wasn't negotiated at the time. At this point, of course, you have the right to think that this was negotiated. But we've been to those meetings, even the legal ones. The issue of transitional provisions and the kind of backwardness of those projects was on the table constantly. Believe me, I'd be happiest if it wasn't there after all. But the pressure was enormous and the interest to make it exactly in that sense, i.e. in order for the projects to be there and there to be transitional provisions, it was clearly expressed by the Commission. So I'm sure we didn't hear you, but we just couldn't negotiate it at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u155	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Anna Putnová, who will interpelise the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová on inclusion, will give the 15th interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u156	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary. Usually, as part of the interview, I try to ask about conceptual issues relating to education. In this case, let me ask you a very specific question. This is an inclusion and I was approached by the director from the Liberec Region, who writes: The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports sent by e-mail to Newsletter Volume I No 1, whose last paragraph was entitled "When will the schools learn more about planned changes?", thinks of inclusion, from which I quote: At the end of 2015, the Ministry of Education will start organising work meetings in all regions with representatives of regional authorities and school founders and with primary school directors. Follow-up teams of experts will visit each fully organized school and discuss the planned changes on the spot. According to agreed information, the training seminar entitled Information Seminar on the Amendment to the Education Act § 16 was to take place 3. 11. 2015. 20. 10. 2015 This Director received the following text from the National Institute for Further Education: Dear Director, I would like to inform you that the planned information seminars on the amendment to the School Act Section 16 for School founders and for primary school and secondary school directors were cancelled yesterday by decision of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. My question is whether these seminars will continue, why they are cancelled and how the directors will learn about the planned changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u157	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u158	Of course, honourable Member, I will examine the particular case here, but as far as the promise that was made in the rapporteur of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports was concerned with the School Committee of the Association of Regions, and there we have actually promised that seminars will be held in the regions for school directors during my personal presence as Minister. The Ústecký and Liberec Region had such a seminar. It was held in Ústí nad Labem and there were several hundred directors. Of course, I'm going to see if it could have happened with this particular director that he didn't get this information. As regards these joint training sessions with my participation, the regions of Ústecký, Liberecký, Středočeský, Prague, Jihomoravský and Vysočina took place. And now on Monday will be Pardubický, Královéhradecký, 15 February Moravian-moravskoslezský, Zlínský, Olomoucký, 10 February Plzeňský, Jihočeský and Karlovarský. The subsidies for these meetings are approximately three to four hours. I attend two hours and my professional co-workers remain there for the next two hours. However, of course, information and educational seminars will be held directly for school directors during the following months. In terms of information for school directors, we completed the headmaster's handle to describe exactly what changes await him. This one's done. We have also processed questions and answers for parents. As far as the National Institute for Education and the National Institute for Further Education is concerned, there is continuous training for both teachers and special educators and educational establishments. As for the handle of the primary school director and the fact that an implementing decree for the amendment to the school law has been announced today, we are agreed in the territory that the selected schools will be visited by our teams and we will verify exactly in practice whether there is something missing or not. Anyway, I would like to apologize to the director in terms of how he learned about the cancellation of the seminar and, on the basis of the information you will undoubtedly pass on to me, I will check the situation with this particular school. Otherwise, of course, I offer to hand over all the things that I have now mentioned, including the timetable for steps towards joint education that we have developed, in electronic form, so that you can communicate with the school in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u159	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u160	It's not an additional question. I just want to thank the Minister for her very competent response and thank you for offering to obtain the material in electronic form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u161	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jaroslav Krákora, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, on the resettlement of Czech compatriots, will give the 16th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u162	Good afternoon, honourable Members, honourable Minister of the Interior. Allow me to give an interview that will be short, brief and clear. The Ministry of the Interior carried out the relocation of Czech compatriots from Ukraine last year. Does the government plan to continue the program this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u163	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 20. 11. 2015 approved by the Government of Resolution No. 962 which decided to continue the programme for 2016 with the primary funding of the funds saved in the budget for this programme in 2015. The program will continue in the same format. It is not restricted by the country of origin of the compatriots. However, the need for applicants is assessed in such a way that State funds are spent economically. The point is that the return policy for the countrymen works for all the countries of the world, but let us be frank that the main concern of the present time is that of Ukraine's countrymen. Last year, the Czech Republic relocated more than 220 compatriots as part of the Ministry of the Interior programme. In 2016, we expect at least the same number, possibly higher number, if the interest of the compatriots in these countries is expressed. Integration of a group of foreigners is very successful in the Czech Republic. It can be said that from 220 compatriots who came last year, integration took place without any problems, both in terms of employment and housing. This group of countrymen from Ukraine was helped very strongly by the relocation of Volyň Čech who were relocated in the 1990s, and many of these compatriots were heading to the areas where these people live. An example of excellent cooperation with ammunition can be given e.g. the city of Cheb, which has provided five apartments for the needs of the countrymen and, at the same time, for the countrymen who move into the apartments during 2016, helps to secure employment in the local industrial zone. Other locations where compatriots settle are e.g. Slavkov u Brna, where she found a job last year at LIKO-S, which also provided housing to people who found a job with her. Other compatriots settle down, for example. in Tachov, Mimoni or Prague. The partner of the Ministry of the Interior has played a key role in the whole assistance programme, which has been an Archdiocese charity in Prague since 2015. The staff of this organization will accompany the displaced compatriots until their arrival, during their temporary stay in the accommodation facility, which is the hotel Vltava, until so-called isolation and departure to the individual places where these people are going. On the other hand, it should also be mentioned that not all compatriots have found a new home in the Czech Republic. A total of five of these 220 returned to Ukraine during 2015. The reason was especially high age and homesickness for the well-known landscape and home. That means these people went back to Ukraine because they couldn't live with the new environment. The program, as I said before, is intended for countrymen from all over the world. So far, only the countrymen from Ukraine have joined it and we expect the relocation of Volyňské Čech for this year as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u165	Thank you, Minister. The Member looks satisfied, he does not have an additional question. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš, on the security of former presidents of the Republic, will give the 17th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to ask why the Minister was excused, I seem to have missed it. [[President: I don't know.]] . You have no idea. However, according to Facebook, I greet the Minister to the Restaurant U Glaubice, where he had goulash for late lunch, and hopefully a non-alcoholic beer. However, the object of my interpellation is something else. Dear Minister, a few months ago, the media wrote about how it was forced to fund the Vize 97 Foundation, which takes care of President Václav Havel's legacy. I want to say clearly that by collecting disproportionate amounts for the name of institutions or public spaces on behalf of President Havel, I find it absurd. All the more so if these requirements are applied to foreign entities as well, which damages the good name of our state. This case led me to conclude that it would probably be desirable for the guarding of the legacy of former Heads of State to be financed in a different way than it has been so far. If we do not want our individual former presidents to be divided by individual billionaires, in the case of Václav Havel Zdeněk Bakala, in the case of Václav Klaus Petr Kellner, and only because of their liking whether the institutions managing the legacy of the political presidents will exist at all, it is time to start thinking, following the model of the US presidential libraries, about paying for the modest but dignified existence of institutions reminiscent of the head of state directly from the state budget. Dear Minister, may I ask your opinion on this point? Thank you for your answer and I wish you a good meal lately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u167	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová, who will interpel the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, will give an interview on trains. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u168	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the Minister for waiting for this interpelation. I'm from Zlín and I take the train from Prague to Otrokovice. Many of these trains go to Luhačovice, which is the beautiful spa town of our region, and it can therefore be assumed that not only spa guests but also tourists should ride on these trains. Therefore, I do not really understand the philosophy of the Czech Railways that the longer the train goes, the less comfortable it must be. These trains have up to 20 stops to Luhačovic, which also corresponds to the length of the ride, and I have to tell you that the sets, I'm talking about the speeding, I'm not talking about some expression or something better, they're totally old-fashioned sets in which they're drowning, but there's no air conditioning in any way, because they can't even be put in those sets. So I want to ask you if there's any hope in the future that these outdated sets will be replaced by something more modern so that those spa guests and tourists can finally get to us in a dignified way. Thank you. . [[Applause throughout the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u169	Thank you, ma'am. It will be the last interpelation today, and yet the Minister has a difficult task to explain the philosophy of the Czech Railways. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a difficult task to explain the philosophy of the Czech Railways in ordering speedsters. So I'll try my office first, and how we approach this matter. The Ministry of Transport orders direct railway connection of long-distance significance to Luhačovice station in the form of line R18 Praha - Olomouc - Luhačovice. This line runs for a civil day in a two-hour interval and is designed so that in Olomouc there is a possibility for passengers from Central Moravia to switch towards Prague to faster trains in the category EC line Ex2. Ex2 trains are always run by upgraded trains. Line R18 is in the section Praha - Olomouc, the slowest layer of long-distance transport intended primarily for operating seats where trains of higher categories do not build. These are, for example, Přelouč, Mohelnice and Červenka. For this reason, the quality of the service corresponding to the express standard is currently offered on the R18 line, since it is not expected that most of the passengers would travel at longer distances by these trains. The Ministry of Transport has long been aware of the lower level of service provided to passengers on R18 trains, in whose trains make up most of the cars produced in the former GDR in the 1980s, which no longer fully meet today's requirements for rail transport. However, similar quality is offered on most lines of this level in the Czech Republic. In the medium term, the Ministry of Transport wants to improve this level significantly. For all newly published tenders and, to a large extent, direct award, for example, will apply strict quality standards that have been published on the Ministry's website. These standards are adapted gradually to all train lines in the public service obligation of the State. Last time was the line R13 Olomouc - Břeclav - Brno. The generational repair of the fleet on the R18 line will take place after the electrification of the line Staré Město - Uherské Hradiště - Luhačovice, for which a feasibility study has been prepared, and the implementation is expected over several years. Thank you. So I don't have all the good news, but it's true that all passengers are on this speedline, and so far, this philosophy is like this - we don't have enough money to change all those speedsters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u171	Thank you, Minister, for the thorough illumination of the philosophy of the Czech Railways. Please, Madame has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u172	I'd just like to ask you and your ministry to sit on that train and go to the Luhačovic. To force someone to move to Olomouc, maybe I'll never move my suitcase there, because I've already fallen down the stairs at the station where the snow falls and freezes to death. And I think that even people who drive shorter distances deserve to ride a comfortable train. I think we already have a new millennium and that our passengers would not have to insult Czech Railways with such trains. I really think so. And if you're ever gonna ride this train with the Ministry, I think you're gonna find money very quickly to replace it. Thank you. . [[Applause throughout the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u173	If the Ministry doesn't take private trains, Minister, try the Czech Railways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u174	vážený President, the Ministry of Transport does not run private trains. The problem here is a little wider. I don't want to make excuses, no way. However, the Czech Railways today have 30 billion bonds, which they don't know exactly how to pay, buy locomotives overpriced, do a lot of things that are a little bit of a problem from the past, or not a little bit, rather more. And I would just like to say that we really have quite a lot of money here in the Traffic Operational Programme for the renewal of the fleet and that we want to and will improve the fleet, but know that the exchange of all trains in the Czech Railways, although I would very much like to do so, we cannot, because the other debt of a similar type of the Czech Railways might not survive. So I have to apologize to you for the Czech Railways, and I will do everything I can to get us to drive better trains earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-008-202.u175	Thank you, Minister, for this promise. And that was the last answer to the last interview today. I am interrupting the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 9 February 14 hours when we will continue the items of the second reading block. Have a good evening.
