ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u1	13. Government bill on trust services for electronic transactions /German press 763/ - second reading We will now vote on Mr Fiedler's proposal to refer the bill back to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation under Paragraph 93 (1). Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. [[The Minister requests the final word.]] Before I begin the vote, the final word of the Minister, who has shown interest in him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few comments and answers to the debate in progress. We think the implementation is supposed to be one. 7. 2016, that is why we asked the Chamber of Deputies to shorten the time limits. And I would like to thank all the Members here once again for allowing us to shorten this. Note that the Ministry of the Interior does not infect this institute, we do not often come here to ask for a shortening of the deadline, but here, from our point of view, is the implementation period 1. 7. 2016. I have already said here at first reading that, at the end of 2015 at the end of the European Commission, the European institutions created certain implementing decrees and only on the basis of them could we prepare the relevant standard. So the Czech Republic is one of the first ones to succeed in this implementation, but I don't know which Home Office employee could have said there was enough time. I'll be looking for him very intensively, I must say, because I wonder where he got that information. On what Mr Bendl said, through Madam President, the Ministry of the Interior is currently presenting a bill to the government, and it is a draft law on electronic communication, which should in some way be interpreted and perhaps strengthen the role of the Ministry of the Interior in communication across various departments. We sent information to the municipalities that this implemented decree should apply, which means the municipalities are informed about it. As regards the electronic identity card, this material is currently under review and should subsequently be put into government in June, with the result being discussed by the Chamber of Deputies. The vision is that from the time the law becomes applicable, 12 months after that, it should have full effect with the fact that the 12 months is the time limit for the State pricing printer to prepare itself for a new way of producing civil certificates. The vision we have is that the ID with the chip should be at a lower price, preferably free of charge. But, of course, it's about whether the state decides to go this way. As regards the other comments. Economic activity within the Ministry of the Interior, and it is no department of the Ministry of the Interior, but it is the administrator of basic registers, it is not the department of the Ministry of the Interior, so according to the ÚOHS finding this way, as we propose, is in line with competition. Mr Pilný - we have met several times in this matter, I have offered him a hearing, the negotiations have taken place, unfortunately we have not received any concrete results. We have not been able to find the basic outlines of the agreement or the basic instruments that should appear in that law either during the debate with Mr Pilný or within the debate within the Economic Committee. I think that the legislative process is clearly defined, clearly defined. And the Economic Committee, from my point of view, and the information I have, did not prevail over Mr Pilný's opinion. I'm bohužel so. So we acted, we spent a lot of time on this meeting, but unfortunately, our views didn't get closer. That's life. As for the other things that have been said, these are costs, how much it should cost, how much this implementation should cost, should come from the RIA, which will be done to this law. I hope I answered most of the questions that were here. And it's legitimate to have fun at third reading, if the law goes back to second reading. Again, from our point of view, the implementation period is 1. 7. 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u3	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee whether she wants to speak with the final word. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u4	I'd just like to sum up what we've been hearing. Mr Pilný has announced that he will propose, at third reading, to return the bill to reading the second, and we have also heard his reservations. Mr Klán spoke of an increase in the contribution to the administration's performance, which is what we hope will be the case with regard to 10% as promised. Mr Chalupa, who was in agreement with Mr Pilný, and also Mr Bendl, who said that we were lagging behind in the electronicisation of public and public administration. And at this point, I have to say, unfortunately, he's right. We're from nice, I don't know if 27. moved to 26. or vice versa, but anyway it's not a nice location. [[places]] Finally, Mr Fiedler proposed to return the bill to the board of guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u6	I would just like to add my final word, and I would like to respond - and I haven't had that information three minutes ago. I promised we'd do a seminar on the public administration's electronics debate. My deputy, Strouhal, is now informing me that the seminar has already been held with the Public Administration Committee about a week and a half ago. And unfortunately, we may not have been operational enough to tell all the Members and Members. So we're gonna do better, and we're gonna do it in the second round, let's do it by the holidays, in some wider format. That's what I promised you here, and we'll keep it. It was in some narrower format allegedly with the Committee on Public Administration, but I think it is for debate with the Committee on Economic Affairs. At the same time with this debate, I would like the representatives of NAKI and the branch race, which are currently becoming one undertaking, to describe their activities very closely, because those debates about what they should or should not do, I would like to make clear, therefore, that the representatives of this new company are clearly explained.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-008-013.u7	Thank you. I am still asking the rapporteur, Valenta, if he is interested in speaking with the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore now proceed to the announced vote on the bill return proposal to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93, para. 2 which was presented by Mr Fiedler. At this point, I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 176, to which 145 are registered, for 61, against 36, was rejected. So we will now continue with the detailed debate that I am initiating at the moment, and I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I do not see any application for a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate and I am asking whether there is an interest in the Minister's final words - this is not the case, the rapporteur - neither is Valenta's rapporteur. So at this point, I am done reading this proposal and I am done discussing this point. Now we return to the interrupted point
