ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u1	119. Members of David Kádner, Martin Lank, Marek Černoch, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Karel Fiedler, Jiří Štětina and Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor to issue a law amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended / House print 598/ - first reading You have received the Government's position as House Press 598/1. I ask now that Mr David Kádner present the motion in favour of the appellants. Sorry, he's not present, so Mr. Chairman Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u2	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce, on behalf of the Dawn of the National Coalition, an amendment to the Asylum Act, which substantially tightens the conditions for obtaining international protection in the Czech Republic. This law has been put forward -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I must also protect you and ask all those who are discussing something other than the asylum law to bring their discussions into the foyer. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u4	Thank you. We have already passed this law on 18 September last year. Already at that time, half a million immigrants came to the European Union. Unfortunately, today European politicians have been unable to do virtually nothing against their influx, so the number of illegal immigrants is close to 1.2 million. In the months of the new year, the situation continues and it can be expected that this migration wave will rise significantly again with the spring months. Therefore, the change in the asylum policy of the Czech Republic is more than necessary. The subject of our amendment is Section 15 and 15a of the Asylum Act, which addresses the reasons for excluding the granting of international protection. Remind - Section 15 relates to the granting of asylum, § 15a relates to supplementary protection. Today, according to § 15 para. 1 granting asylum refused only by foreigners who are: (a) committed a crime against peace, war crime or a crime against humanity within the meaning of international documents containing provisions on such offences; (b) has committed a serious non-political crime or a particularly cruel act, even if allegedly committed with a political objective outside the territory, prior to the Ministry's decision on international protection; or (c) committed acts contrary to the principles and objectives of the United Nations. These wordings arose after World War II, at a time when asylum was to be prevented from being received by Nazi war criminals. According to them, asylum must not be granted only in the case of war crimes, crimes against humanity or cruel dictators. Furthermore, pursuant to Section 15a, supplementary protection cannot be granted in the same cases as in Section 15 and, moreover, in the case of a foreigner committing a serious crime. But a serious crime is a crime that has a criminal rate of over ten years, and that is only the most serious crimes against life and health that anyone can ever commit. They don't include rape or battery. In other words, this paragraph prohibits the granting of asylum to basically murderers or those who rape young children. Everyone else is entitled to supplementary protection. Our proposal regulates the relevant sections by excluding the granting of asylum to all foreigners who commit illegal acts on the territory of the Czech Republic. Millions of migrants are heading to Europe who do not respect our laws, our customs and our traditions, millions of migrants who illegally cross the national borders of the Member States of the Union. The first person we have to exclude unconditionally from granting asylum is those illegal migrants who commit a crime or offense in our country. We left a certain insurance policy in the law. Asylum or supplementary protection may therefore be granted where there are grounds for special consideration. [[18.50 hours]] The main problem with the current law is that it is not absolutely ready to respond to the current situation where endless crowds of refugees from the Islamic civilization ring come to the European Union who have no respect for the European perception of justice and justice. The law takes no account of the fact that criminals, rapists or criminals can apply for asylum in the Czech Republic. We say clearly, for those who violate our laws, we are not to examine whether they have or do not have the right to asylum. It is unacceptable to accept them and the right to asylum must not be granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u5	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Stanislav Huml. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u6	Good evening. I will probably not read the same or repeat the same thing that Marek said here, because I have a news report prepared in detail and he basically read it all in his speech, but I must draw attention to the opinion of the government, which is negative, and I will read why. The proposed bill aims to tighten the legislation on migration policy by significantly extending the grounds for excluding the granting of international protection in the framework of asylum and supplementary protection, while also proposing the unification of the diction. exclusion clauses for both of these schemes. The Asylum Act is to be amended in such a way as to extend cases where asylum or supplementary protection is excluded for the commission of any offence or even offence. The Government draws attention to the contradiction with European law, where it essentially comes across the fact that the Government's asylum law, which passed the House last December at third reading, was currently under discussion, and it included Mr Lank's proposal and the proposal was not approved a month and a half ago. So these are two fundamental reasons, which the government states as a reason why it does not recommend that the law be passed. That's an intelligence report from me, all of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate in which Mr Martin Lank has come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u8	Beautiful evening, dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government, thank you for the floor. I must thank my colleague Huml for presenting the government's positions, the negative positions and the reasons why the government has come to them. And I'm going to make some arguments here that will disprove the government's opinion. As has been said, the Government justifies its opposition by contradicting the international treaties binding on the Czech Republic. The Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to benefit from international protection is to be discussed in particular. However, it must be made clear that both international and European law is based on the so-called 'European law'. exclusion clauses, and as explained in the explanatory report of our law, these exclusion clauses are the minimum - I repeat the minimum - which is mandatory for contracting states. Therefore, each country may exclude other people from refugee status, at its discretion. On the other hand, the government claims that the exclusion clause is an optimization with which the state is supposedly not to move. This is, however, an entirely wrong interpretation, which we believe the government is harming the Czech Republic. This makes it clear that the minimum laid down in Article 1f of the Geneva Treaty cannot only be made possible, that is to go under, but nothing prevents the conditions from being extended, that is to go above and the conditions for asylum to tighten. The government's argument on the European Union directive is also odd. While it allows the Member States of the European Union to mitigate the criteria for granting international protection, the fact that European law must explicitly allow Member States to go below the minimum does not imply that Member States must not again go above the minimum. Moreover, the government completely ignored the fact that exclusion clauses are not simply carved into stone, but that they can be extended. It can therefore be concluded that the House's press No. 598 is not contrary to international law and European law or constitutional law, since the Government relied only on the a prior claim that the exclusion clauses are optimized, although both the caselaw of the European Court of Justice and the conclusions of the doctrine indicate that the exclusion clauses can be extended. Evidence that the Czech Republic has an incredibly benevolent asylum law, so that sexual invaders from Cologne can be expelled under German law, could not be expelled under the laws of the Czech Republic. And by the way, Germany or Denmark are now quick to approve another major tightening up of their asylum laws, and we will probably be waiting even further. I have one more important thing to say about this. Protecting and protecting the citizens of the Czech Republic is more important to me than any international treaty. I'm sorry, but it's true. After all, no one respects international agreements in Europe anymore. Where's your schengen deal? Where's your Dublin system? No, there is no appeal in this crisis to respect international treaties when it comes to our safety. Even if this law is against thousands of international treaties, I will never approve of granting asylum to sexual invaders like those of Cologne, and I would like to ask the same of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u9	Thank you, Mr Lank. Mr Karel Fiedler withdrew his request for a contribution to the general debate. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. There is no such person as to report to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I am asking the rapporteur's final words, or the appellant's. It's not like that. I do not see a motion to rebut or reject this proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Security Committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 165, 147 Members and Members registered, for 120, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment? Mr. Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u10	Mr Vice-President, I would like to propose a constitutional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-005-119.u11	The Constitutional Committee. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment of this bill to the constitutionally legal committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 166, 147 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee and as another committee to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. As we do not have a vote after 19 o'clock, I will be forced to suspend our negotiations under the agreement of the members of the parliamentary clubs. So I'm interrupting the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow, ten minutes after the end of... Sorry. I interrupt the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow, 10 minutes after the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Tomorrow morning, at 9 a.m., the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies continues with the government's motion to register sales. Have a good evening.
