ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 49th meeting on 25 August 2016. The invitation was sent to you on Friday 26 August t. r. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Jiří Petr. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. If that is not the case, we will vote. I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with these two verifiers. Who's against it? The vote is number 1. It's logged in 154, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we are the verifiers of the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Černochová and Mr Jiří Petr. Mr Tejc - card 168. Before I read the apologies, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club asked for the floor with priority rights. Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Věra Čáslavská died last Tuesday. I recommend and ask that we honor this lady, this queen of Czech sport, with a minute's silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Please let us honor the memory of Mrs. Věra Čáslavská for a minute of silence. [[All present rise to honor the memory of Věra Čáslavská]] Thank you. [[Everyone will take their seats.]] Now, let me introduce you to my apologies. The following Members, Members and Members of the Government apologise: Mrs Balaštíková until 17.30 - working grounds, Mr Farský - working grounds, Mr Kádner - working grounds, Mr Klaška within 15 hours - working grounds, Mr Luzar - 17.30 to 20, personal reasons, Mrs Němcová without giving reason, Mr Nykl - medical reasons, Mr Ploc without giving reason, Mrs Rutová - personal reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg - working grounds, Mr Urban without giving reason, Mr Zemánek - personal reasons, Mr Zlatuška - foreign travel, Mr Ženíšek until 15.30 - working grounds. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government - foreign travel, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel and Minister Valachová - working reasons. So many apologies. Mr Černý votes with card number 54. And now we're going to set up the 49th meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to include in the programme 49th meeting drafts of laws returned to the Senate, for which a legal deadline has been fulfilled. These are therefore the following points: a bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of the property - press 504/6, secondly a bill amending certain electoral laws and other related laws - printing 568/9, a bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws - printing 608/5, draft law on biocidal products and active substances and amending certain related laws - print 589/4. This means that we would place those four points firmly as points 2 to 5 of today's day. This would imply that, if it were agreed that point 57, print 828, would become point 6. That's one proposal from the Gremium. Second proposal from Gremium: paragraph 214, House press 832, we would place the draft programme firmly on Thursday, September 8th as the second point after the written interventions, after the timetable for the state budget. That's all in relation to the agenda on my part. Mrs Kailová has card number 69. I will now give the floor to all those who wish to comment on the agenda, or make a proposal. I have President Kalousek's priority right here, with priority rights, I have registered President Černoch. Before that, actually, Prime Minister Faltýnek applied with priority rights. Then the President of Černoch and the other applications will be due. So three priority rights. I beg President Kalousek to take the floor. Mr. Faltýnek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Allow me to propose a new item on the agenda for today's meeting, as the first item on today's agenda. The item would be entitled "Conclusion of the Chamber of Deputies on the statements of the First Vice-President of the Government on the concentration camp in Lety'. Allow a brief explanation. During his election visit to Varnsdorf following a tour of socially excluded localities with mostly Romani ethnicity, Mr. First Vice-President of the Government made a public statement -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u5	Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down, settle down and listen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u6	In public, he said: "There was a time when all Rom people worked. What those morons say in the paper that Camp Lety was a concentration camp, that's a lie. It was a work camp. Who didn't work, chop and there he was." After the storm of disgust in the public media, the First Vice-President of the Government made excuses. Some of the media said he apologized. We didn't hear the apology, we heard the excuses that this statement was brutally out of context. Frankly, none of us can imagine a context within which this sentence would be acceptable in whatever context, for what is unacceptable, outrageous and insulting in that statement is not merely a downplay of historical facts. Maybe by pulling her out of context, she'd be justified. What is offensive, unacceptable, and outrageous is the admirable and commendable tone to the practice at the time: See how they did it back then. Heinrich Himmler ran it as a company, didn't bullshit, worked. Who wasn't working -- chop and there he was. The expression, if we are to talk about context, it seemed more like a guide to use than anything else in the situation. And that statement was made by the First Vice-President of the Government. [[14.10 hours]] I understand that we can each have a different sensitivity. I heard Minister Ťok and another member of the Czech Television government say that this is an entirely innocent statement. We consider this an absolutely dangerous statement. Dangerous because it is a history that must not be repeated. A statement that denies the humanities of the foundation of the Republic, which was founded in 1918. Moreover, such a high figure as the first Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic is about a statement that is totally unacceptable if it is made by any public official. We believe that the Czech Republic does not deserve to be represented by a person who is willing to speak favorably and admirably about the inhuman practices of the Third Reich. In this sense, we believe that it is the duty of the Chamber of Deputies to take a position on this statement and to condemn that statement and to say whether the Czech Republic deserves or does not deserve to be able to represent the Czech Republic. We believe that this is necessary. Who thinks that the statement is acceptable, acceptable, that it can be crossed and that it is too unnecessary for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with it, will not support our proposal. However, we believe that a decent person should support the proposal. Because a decent person can't accept a statement like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u7	If Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Černoch agree that I prefer Minister Babiš, I will allow him to speak with priority rights. That's right. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the affair, the pseudo-affair that is now being fed, is only the result of a thousand repeated misinformation. I would begin by expressing the town of Varnsdorf, which commented on the campaign for my resignation. I'd read it here. As representatives of the city of Varnsdorf, we would like to comment on an artificial media storm unleashed around one sentence by Andrej Babiš, which he was to deliver in Varnsdorf. Mr. Babiš did not perform for journalists, only in a heated debate with the citizens he quoted his acquaintance and said a little clumsy about Camp Lety as a work camp. Comments from some journalists, politicians, do not correspond to the situation in which the sentence was said. It's a perfectly tender political game. Photographer Ludvík Hradílek from the server Aktuálně, belonging to Mr. Bakal, due to whose descriptions under the photographs the whole case has started, says here also other nonsense that harms the city of Varnsdorf again. For example, there is a label on the photo to open the playground "Today, they're showing the Minister how they can spend their subsidies." However, the city financed the construction of the playground solely by its means. The photographer is unable to properly inform himself or to compile a longer text, as we have learned. He tried to hurt a short, stupid label. The intention was to damage both Andrej Babiš and the city of Varnsdorf. And so it was with the labels on my statement, because come here, I don't use that expression. We appreciate the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance accepted our invitation and, despite his workload, dedicated 1. 9. 2016 full seven hours of his time to the neglected and ignored Varnsdorf. That's the Sluknov outskirt where so many politicians walk in 20 years and make promises all the time. It was a work visit, not an election campaign. Mr. Babiš was really interested in the negatives that are bothering us, the positives that the city can boast about. He opened a new school and playground - I don't know why he bothered the photographer that the children got a brand new playground - and visited a prosperous factory. From that, the workers themselves referred him to see how he didn't work on Kovarská Street. Approximately an hour later, in this excluded locality, Andrej Babiš was shocked by his own words. Yes, I visited an excluded location for the first time in my life, and I was shocked. I was shocked by the conditions in which people live here and where the doses are actually going. I've met it for the first time in my life. I was inside, in flats full of bedbugs and smells, and then I was mostly welcomed by those people who live around who are afraid for their lives, who are being destroyed by property that has damaged their property. And I just asked when I saw a hundred adults working there, why these people aren't at work. Simple question. And then I found out how it works, the apartments. That's four huge blocks, they belonged to the city. The city sold them to the original inhabitants and the original inhabitants sold them to two natural persons. And those two natural persons moved in with the Rom. Why? Because it's convenient. Because our state actually gives such companies, poor businessmen, huge money. What do these two gentlemen collect? They're picking up in three ways. The state social support contribution to housing. There are eight to ten thousand crowns per month for the studio and 1 + ten to twelve thousand crowns per month for the apartment. Then they have a material emergency fund, a housing supplement, and unspoiled high energy reserves without objective billing. So actually, there's a big problem that we've been pointing out in the long run, and that's abuse of social housing benefits. And, of course, some of these people live on welfare for their children. The neighbors told me that some of them take doses from 30 to 40,000 a month. Of course, the question is, why aren't they at work? So that was the problem, and that was the goal of why I visited this place. And then I visited the apartment of a lady who unfortunately couldn't sell her apartment and who lives there in very bad conditions. And so I ask why no one cares. The mayor says it's a disgrace. This is the main road from Germany. Why doesn't he care? After all, there were two ministers of our government a long time ago, and I don't know what solution to that. Why don't we talk about it? Then I had a discussion with the neighbors when I visited the whole thing, and I told them about our visit with Minister Brabc to the owner of a company that told us about a labor camp in Lety. Because what Mr. Kalousek says isn't true. The camp was created as a labor camp. And I was just saying that it turned into a concentration camp later, that it didn't come about as a concentration camp. They weren't SS units. It didn't come out like a camp in the Third Reich. That's not true. And I can read you here a very brief history of the camp. [[14.20 hours]] "For the existence of the Second Pomnikh Republic on 2 March 1939, already in accordance with the model of Nazi Germany, the Czechoslovak Government issued Decree No. 72 on disciplinary labor camps for men over 18 years of age, who avoided work and could not prove that they provided their livelihood properly. The decree on disciplinary labor camps, in which Rom people, among other things, were concentrated - alongside them, for example, vagrants, beggars, and other people working with the shielding, i.e. basically people from the margins of society - took over the protectorate government by their amendment of 28. 4. 1939. Specifically, the camp at Lety u Písek has undergone several development phases. Originally formed in the summer of 1940 as a labor camp, by decision of the protectorate government. It was only a few days later that Josef Ježek, the Reich Protector Konstantin von Neurath, approved the decree of the Protectorate Minister of the Interior. The focus of the prisoners, while not all of them were Rom, worked mainly on construction sites or agricultural settlements in the area. However, 1942 became a turning point, when the camp in Lety u Písek was transformed from a labor camp into a kind of concentration camp, in the sense of a camp where Rom people are violently concentrated and interned in one place for racial, not labour, and social reasons. The whole families found themselves in the Lety camp regardless of their way of life, their degree of education or their degree of integration into society. Sometimes, as a term identifying the camp in Lety u Písek, a collection or gypsy camp is used. As in the case of Žid, in the case of the Roma population in the Czech lands, his concentration in internment camps and the opening of ghettoid isolation from the majority society took place. Although concentration camp is also used for the Lety camp, the camp at Lety u Písek is in terms of the living conditions of prisoners and the treatment of them is incomparable with concentration camps in Nazi Germany or established Nazis in the territory of the occupied countries." And this is about the statement that I said it came from, that it was like a work camp, not like a concentration camp. "Although the camp's capacity was enlarged, the camp was able to accommodate up to 600 prisoners, but the number was soon exceeded, as more than 1,100 men, women and children were interned in the camp during August 1942. The camp was not equipped with the necessary sanitary and other facilities for such a large number of persons. Moreover, only men were imprisoned in the camp until August 1942. Since August 1942, women and children have also been living here in completely unsatisfactory conditions. After a great strain in August 1942, individuals or individual families came to the camp mostly. Thus, the number of prisoners continued not to rise, but the unsatisfactory conditions in the camp remained virtually the same. The camp's supervisory authorities were recruited only from the ranks of protectorate gendarmes, not from SS members, so it was also a significant difference from other concentration camps. However, many Czech overseers have often behaved very grossly and unchosenly toward prisoners, and there have been physical punishments that have been carried out on prisoners. Particularly viciously against the prisoners was the overseer Josef Janovský. The catastrophic accommodation, food and hygiene conditions have led partly to chronic inmates' illness and their high mortality. The climax was at the turn of 1942-43 the outbreak of a typhus epidemic, which resulted in the deaths of the largest number of prisoners. At least 326 people died in the camp at Lety u Písek, mostly due to illness and poor hygiene conditions. The vast majority of the victims were children under 14 years of age. Internships in Lety passed a total of 1,300 people. In Lety, however, unlike Nazi concentration camps, there were no executions of prisoners. The flights and other camps were, however, a step forward to the physical destruction of all Romani populations in the territory of Bohemia and Moravia, which took place in the extermination Nazi camp Auschwitz in Auschwitz. For the internment of Rom people in Moravia, the camp in Hodonín near Kunštát served as a place of forced concentration of Moravian Rom people. Like Lety, Romani families were forced into the camp at the beginning of August 1942 in the number of significantly exceeding the capacity of the camp, which was set at 800 people. The camp was officially passed by 1,396 people. Accommodation, food and hygiene conditions were as disastrous as in Lety and the camp rules were identical. The supervisory staff was also made up of protectorate gendarmes. In the camp Hodonínek u Kunštáta died again on the basis of inappropriate hygiene conditions, insufficient food and diseases 207 men, women and children. Of the 30 children born in the camp, none survived. It was similar in Lety near Písek. Since 1943, Heinrich Himmler's orders for the deportation of the Rom population to Nazi concentration camps began to take place. First, these camps concerned the Romani population, which was not concentrated in the collection camps in Lety u Písek and Hodonínek u Kunštáta. The assembly of transports was ordered by German criminal police. The execution of the transports itself was entrusted to the Protectorate Criminal Police and the gendarmes. The second phase of the transport of the Protectorate Rom people was made up of two mass transports from Lety u Písek and Hodonínek u Kunštát. The flight transport was carried out on 7 May 1943, Hodonín on 21 August 1943. After transporting these transports, only a group of roughly 200 Rom people were released in the Protectorate on the basis of a criminal police permit. Only a slim percentage of Rom people from the Protectorate have been spared deportation. For one thing, they were Rom people who fled abroad in time or were successfully hiding in the Protectorate, and Rom people, who were held up by their home community, guaranteed themselves and out of their deportation lists. In the future, forced sterilization of these people was considered. In the so-called Gypsy camp of Auschwitz concentration camp, Rom people quickly died due to inhuman living conditions, hunger and disease. Selected Rom people were subjected to monstrous experiments conducted by Josef Mengele, who chose mostly pregnant women and twins for scientific purposes. Most Rom people from Czech countries died together in the gas chamber on the night of August 2, 1944. Most Rom people deported to Auschwitz from the Protectorate did not survive their Nazi imprisonment. Only 583 Rom from 6,500 members of the Roma population from Czech countries returned to their homeland. A group of Czech Rom people, including Rom people living in Moravia, has been liquidated as a whole and it is right to talk about the war genocide of this ethnicity in this context. Together with colleagues from the historical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, for example with the lecturer Jan Němeček, I recommend also to focus attention in addition to mapping the history of the camp in Lety and Hodonín near Kunštát, which was created on the initiative of the National Educational Museum of Jan Amos Komenský in Prague, an exhibition commemorating the existence of the camp also at other places associated with terror during the Nazi occupation in our territory. As an example it is possible to mention the concentration camp Hradištěko in Benešovsko. The camp Hradištěko also worked as a work camp at first, but its character changed after it worked since 1943 as a branch of the concentration camp Flossenburg. Although there is a memorial with a cross at the place of execution of prisoners from spring 1945, there is little known about the existence of this camp in the general public. It would therefore also be good to support greater public knowledge of these sites, which are often partially forgotten." So much analysis by Mr. Associate Professor Jaroslav Šebek, Doctor of History of the 20th Century of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prosecká 76, Prague 9. So please, this whole pseudocussion is about me interpreting the words of a man who said that Flights were created as a work camp. And the photographer adjusted it. So, of course, it's a campaign again - and I don't know which campaign, because it looks like the previous campaigns aren't working. And to tell me that I don't accept or accept the fascist horrors, the Holocaust - so I'll read you the opinion of Mr Pavel Chalupa, the creator of the Train Lustig project, who came to you, politicians, and wanted money for it, but you didn't have any. So I would start by knowing Arnošt Lustig personally, and I can say that we were friends, we went to dinner, I sponsored his book, and I can quote people who testify. I supported his initiatives, followed him, and was appalled by what he had experienced in the concentration camp. So pushing me into the Holocaust is absurd, rude, and I refuse to do so. [[14.30 hours]] I am fascinated by the criticism of politicians who in the past promised this project by the train of Arnošt Lustiga blue from the sky, publicly, and never seriously, Mr Chalupa says. And I am still waiting for them to be fulfilled. And I'll probably never see it again. For five years, the train Lustig has been acquainting the Czech public with the Holocaust through the theatrical adaptation of the novel Arnošt Lustig Prayer for Kateřina Horovitzová. I personally sponsored this project for my money since 2012. And I kept my promise. And in the summer of 2014, I personally took part in the performance with my whole family in the area of the railway station Prague-Bubny, where the transports of Žid to Terezín were carried out. And I was sitting next to Minister Herman and then Minister Válková. I'm sure they'll remember. So I fundamentally reject these dirty lies and accusations. And let's look at our traditional politicians who are dealing with Lety. I've known a pig farm owner for 25 years. And he told me. I called him on Sunday, he was at my place yesterday, I was at his place this morning. And the first one to come in was the Minister without a portfolio of the mlynář. It was January 1998. So you've been talking about how you're gonna solve the Lety Memorial for 18,5 years. So it's been about as long as you've been buying out Havránková's property. That was 19 years ago. Yes. I was the first finance minister to visit it, as I was told today. But, of course, we can quote the announcements to the press. [[He showed a stack of papers.]] duben 2007. South Bohemia Rom people propose an adjustment around the pig farm, which counts with the Museum of Romani History, the pig farm should remain in place. This proposal is supported by Minister of Finance Kalousek. On the contrary, the Committee on Compensation for the Roma Holocaust disagrees. We insist the pig farm isn't allowed in there. It's a political plan. July 1998. The government has decided to build another memorial. It has declared a protection zone to prevent the further spread of the pig farm and has opened negotiations for its redemption. July 1998. The costs are estimated at 200 to 300 million. May 2001. At the fifth commemorative act, representatives of the Rom draw attention to the government's inaction. It's 2001. The pig farm is standing on the spot. May 2004. The Rom sign at the memorial to the government to have the pig farm removed. The Gypsy Abbot of the Order of svatý Duch Patrik Kraus. We have fancy offices, the headquarters of the General Health Insurance Company, modern financial offices. And there's no money for our memorial? June 2005. The European Parliament recommended tearing down the Czech pig farm in Lety. The costs of relocation are estimated at half a billion. The government has no money. If it were me, so rather than building a memorial, I would prefer that money to go to the education of young Rom people, said then Prime Minister Jiří Paroubek. November 2005. The state budget for next year includes tens of millions of crowns, with which the government expects to buy out the farm. The matter shall be resolved by the end of the term of office. We also find out the financial difference between building a new pig farm and rebuilding an old pig farm. That will be done within 14 days, calculated by Human Rights Commissioner Svatopluk Karásek. January 2006. Members of the Nationalist National Party brought a boulder to the former collection camp with the sign of the Sacrifice. The Rom people called it a disgrace to the piety. The demonstration of the National Party's supporters ends in a skirmish between them and the Rom with two interrogations and a criminal announcement. February 2007. Minister without portfolio Džamila Stehlíková wants money to buy the pig farm from the European Union. The area is modernizing. I'm a little embarrassed to ask for Union money for this. Flights are a disgrace to us because Němec weren't guarded there, but protectorate gendarmes. We should clean our own shame, meaning Secretary of State Karel Schwarzenberg. February 2007. duben 2007. South Bohemia Rom people have proposed an adjustment to the surrounding pig farm, which counts on the Museum of Romani History. The pig vepřín should stay put. This proposal is supported by Minister of Finance Kalousek. On the contrary, the Committee on Compensation for the Roma Holocaust disagrees. We insist the pig farm isn't allowed in there. This is a political intention. They want the whole thing off the table, said the chairman of the committee Čeněk Růžička. May 2007. Minister Stehlíková promises to resolve the fate of the memorial by the end of the term of office. That's two. January 2008. The European Parliament criticizes the Czech Republic for the situation around the pig farm. MEPs are calling on the European Commission and other authorities to do everything they can to remove it. Some Czech MEPs oppose this resolution. If the European Union wants to intervene in this matter under the sovereign authority of the Czech authorities, it should put on the table the necessary two billion crowns for the destruction of piggyback and the construction of the memorial, said KDU-ČSL Member Jan Březina. February 2008. The Committee on Compensation for the Roma Holocaust wants to build a new memorial in Lety at its own expense. After years of manipulation without us, we no longer intend to allow anyone to speak into the form of a future memorial, said the chairman of the committee Čeněk Růžička. January 2009. The pig farm's still standing. The memorial isn't being built. The new Human Rights Minister Michael Kocáb promises a quick solution. 17. 4. 2007 Minister of Finance Kalousek KDU-ČSL spoke yesterday in České Budějovice, on the film, with Deputy Chief of Staff of the South Bohemia Region Vladimír Pavelka, KDU-ČSL, in particular about the upcoming changes in social services and ways of financing further construction of the D3 motorway near Tábor and during his Monday visit to South Bohemia he met with representatives of Romani initiatives who presented him with a project to solve the memorial in Lety u Písek. We also have a conversation with Mr. Kalousek on how to handle this. That was in 2007. So we can talk about this for a long time. Eighteen and a half years you've been talking about it. Of course. Now's the time. I would just like to repeat that I am the Finance Minister and I am in charge of the money and I have a problem that two natural persons have bought apartments in Kovářská Street in Varnsdorf, that they receive money directly from the state, that the welfare benefits are being abused, that the state has done nothing to them, and that is why I was in Varnsdorf. And it came from an affair that, of course, needs to be exploited. He's before the election. Of course, it would be pointless to disprove... The photographer lied at the playground and manipulated my opinions. And most importantly, I interpreted the position of the owner of the company who is 82 years old and who talked about it. And I wasn't talking about questioning the Holocaust in any way. That's ridiculous. I refuse. I decided I'd better apologize. And I apologized to those who might have been affected because if you repeat a lie a thousand times, you can... And now it's clear, everybody's saying what I said. jo. So I was there this morning. Our government wants to deal with this. Minister Dienstbier has been in charge since March of this year. It was declassified at the government yesterday. I don't actually know why it was classified. And I assume that the Minister will come up with a solution and that for almost 19 years, the promise of politicians who promise to solve it, that our government will be able to solve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I have to admit, I didn't understand the Minister's speech. When I read his statement, and he didn't deny that the statement had fallen, I was terrified because I couldn't imagine that a member of the Czech Republic's government was able to say something like that. And when I explain to my children what Holocaust denial is, I have a very good example. [[14.40 hours]] I expected one thing from today's meeting: that the Minister would perform and apologize. Because each of us make mistakes, each of us have done something in our lives that we're not proud of. We may have all said something that made us feel bad, but the words are hard to get back into our mouths. But there's always a chance to step up and say, I'm sorry, I made a mistake, I didn't mean it, I'm sorry. Just admit it was a mistake. And I didn't notice anything like that in the Minister's speech. I've heard attempts to apologize for these things, to try to make a historical exposé. But that's not the point. I think half a minute was enough to say, "I'm sorry, I didn't mean it, and I'm sorry. That didn't sound like it. And I guess we'll just leave it to the voters to get an idea of how it is. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to leave it at that. To let the voters take a picture. And so that we don't continue to apologize to something that's inexcusable or try to convince someone who's not willing to apologize and who's incapable of apologizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now, if I have a good order written, it's Chairman Faltýnek with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. As I announced today at the Gremia meeting, I have proposals for a change of schedule. Specifically, the fixed classification of the point. However, before that, one more proposal, which I did not draw up at the meeting of the Gremium. He's the opposite. At the request of the Minister of the Environment, I would like to exclude item No. 206, to propose the elimination of point 206, it is a draft law on conservation of nature and landscape, namely House press 501. And then I would like to ask, as I have already announced at the meeting of Gremia, for a firm inclusion of paragraph 77, it is a proposal, criminal code, House press 886, first reading, and item 17, government bill, civil code, House press 642, second reading, on Tuesday 13. 9. as the fourth and fifth fixed point. I shall deliver in writing, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr. Černoch, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to make a quick mention of one dimension that didn't fall here as part of Minister Babiš's speech, and that's abuse of social benefits. Dawn here has put forward several bills against the abuse of social benefits. A law on material distress. And it is hypocritical to say today that no one has done anything about it for years, because even your Members, Minister, have thrown these bills of ours off the table. However, I wanted to make a proposal for a programme, and I would like to propose a new item on behalf of the Dawn Parliamentary Club entitled Approval of a public contract for the selection of an integrator for 6 000 immigrants. I would like to put this point first today in order. Last week, the Czech Government approved a very important contract called the General Provider of Integration Services for persons with international protection for the period 2017 to 2019. This public contract will cost us 520 miles. The crowns to go to the integration of 6,000 immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Sobotka, Minister Babiš and other ministers of the Czech Government have repeatedly told us that they are rejecting quotas and that our country will not accept any immigrants. How, then, is it possible that the Czech Government will agree in complete silence to the contract for receiving 6 000 immigrants? Radical Islamism is growing throughout Europe, and the number of terrorist attacks is constantly increasing every day. Today we no longer ask what if an attack happened, but when such an attack would happen. Such a step is therefore a direct threat to the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. I can't imagine what kind of government in the world would so recklessly endanger its own citizens. In a situation where the official position of the Czech Government is that the government will not allow immigrants to receive, the award of a public contract for their future integration is a clearly inefficient waste of our citizens' money. They're supposed to do something that, in your opinion, government officials will never happen. So you're throwing money out the window. And if you think you can afford this, tell our citizens that we have enough money for everything. That new kindergartens and hospitals would stand. The government step clearly fulfils the characteristics of the offence of breach of the obligation to manage foreign property and is subject to the relevant criminal rate. We therefore have two options: either this House will approve a new point where Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister Babiš will clearly and clearly explain that they see no contradiction in not accepting immigrants and publishing this contract, or they will not explain it to us, and we will then be forced to file criminal charges against the entire government for violating the obligation to manage foreign property. There's no way the government can just throw money out the window with impunity for what she thinks is never supposed to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u15	Yes. Furthermore, with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Before I suggest a new point, which is why I volunteered, he's not going to let me react to some of the Minister of Finance's words and how words pass with actions. Abuse of social benefits is an old-fashioned problem and thanks to the helpfulness except for one of all members We have approved the Chamber of Deputies one of the sub-instruments which could, in particular, help the authorities. Even in Varnsdorf. And that means my amendment, thanks to the vast majority, has been approved that the housing supplement in the residential hotels can only be paid with the approval of the relevant town hall, which knows very well whether it is really a social service facility or just a hostel where social benefits are being traded. I was very satisfied, not that it was the only instrument that could solve everything, but the practice of the ministers of this government when they began to interpret and from the binding position of the municipality is recommending. Even, Minister of Finance, your government has once again sent an amendment to this law, where the authority of municipalities is withdrawn. So you can't say at the same time that municipalities don't have tools, and at the same time, when we all approved one instrument here, except for one vote, your government refuses to apply it and even amends it! So order yourself in government parties, in government benches, and then we are able to introduce and help the mayors and especially those to whom they move into inadequate buildings of socially inadaptable citizens. It's that simple. But you've been in government for almost three years, and you always act as a member of the opposition, and you actually criticize what your government does. I know it may be marketing interesting, maybe it's marketing efficient, but you still can't make excuses like that. And now a point, we want to propose. We were here in June discussing an amendment to the law, in simple terms, about the EIA, when the government put out the problem that it caused itself. And the government's proposal was for us to discuss this in abridged procedure pursuant to § 90 para. 2. [[Noise and laughter in ČSSD benches.]] And before the hearing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u17	I'm asking the left side of the hall to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u18	Before the discussion itself, there was a floor to which the political meeting called by the Minister of the Environment, when he asked us as opposition, so that we would not vet it, so that we could make it possible for the law to be adopted. Especially in that forum of 20, 25 people I asked him if he guaranteed that the ten transport buildings that were in the explanatory report on this law would really be removed from the obligation of the government to have a new EIA. The Minister of the Environment promised it to me in front of many witnesses. Subsequently, not only have we not applied the veto, but many of us have actively voted in favour of the law. [[14.50 hours]] What was my surprise when I found out that in the government's regulation, which was approved by the government and the Minister of Finance of Babiš, constructions are not ten, but nine. I specifically asked in advance at the meeting how it would be with the extended Rudna, which is one of the key buildings in the Moravian-Silesian Region. I was assured that there was no problem with this, that it was negotiated in Brussels, that even the extended Rudná could benefit from this accelerated and advantageous regime. Unfortunately, reality is different. And I have to say that I have been fooled or deceived, and I do not want to use stronger verbs, although I could, because clearly the Minister of the Environment has not kept his word and the promise he made to opposition Members before the law is being discussed. We have fulfilled our word, we have not applied the veto, we have supported the law, the law has been passed. And thanks to this regulation, the Czech Government could accept and issue this. I propose the inclusion of a new point, which would be called the Information of the Minister of the Environment on the Government's Regulation establishing transport structures which were excluded from the obligation to obtain a new EIA. I don't want to propose the exact time and the exact date at this point. I trust you'll support me. All Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region should be in favour, regardless of party jurisdiction, because ask at home how much trouble this is causing. We who know the situation at the site know that we are probably delaying this by years, the implementation of this construction, and if it is included in the programme, I will certainly find with the Minister of the Environment a deadline when it will be in the Chamber of Deputies, so that the debate can take part in it, so that we can ask questions and possibly get answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u19	Mr President, if I may ask the exact name of the item. Information from the Minister of the Environment about the government's decree to which they were set...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u20	... transport constructions that have been excluded from the obligation to obtain a new EIA.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. President Kalousek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to take too long. We each have our conscience and our judgment, but nevertheless allow a few words in response to the speech of Minister Babiš and to the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. On the speech of Minister Babiš, I would like to stress that I did not propose a point that should address the way in which the memorial was edited in Lety. There can be different opinions about that. But we could hardly have different opinions, so I thought we couldn't have different opinions about horrible crimes going on there. That is what I thought until the Minister of Finance gave a sentence that praises and admires these practices and which looks like instructions for use, because otherwise the sentence cannot be heard. And if she is making excuses, not apologizing, by being brutally out of context, I would like each of you to ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture, who defends the Minister of Finance, if they could tell us any context within which the sentence would be acceptable. If it sounds unacceptable to us from the context, as the Minister of Finance claims, then kindly tell us the context within which this sentence would be acceptable, it would not sound disgusting, it would not sound anti-human and would not be scandalous. I can't imagine the context, but maybe the two ministers will tell us. That is why I believe that this is so dangerous - not because the facts have been distorted. I've heard distorted facts about Lety many times. But it is dangerous that the method was praised by the Minister of Finance's statement. Well, those were the days. That wasn't bullshit, that was hard work. If someone didn't want to work, we put him there. Why can't we do it again? There's a terrible danger to society that if we don't fight, it stays in this air. Now I will allow myself to move on to Prime Minister Hamáček. He says he doesn't agree to distance himself from it, but that he refuses to do anything about it as House President, that he'll leave it to the voters. But isn't it our duty to take a stand on this? It is not our duty to say: yes, this sentence is acceptable to us, and that is why we will not deal with it? Or it is completely unacceptable for us, and therefore we fundamentally protest and insist on it, on it and on it. What you said, Mr President, sounded nice at first sight, but basically it looked like you were saying: I am hypocritically distancing myself, but I am actually glad that he said it because it was said and he will continue to be our first prime minister. If, after what he said, he will continue to be your first Vice-President of the Government, so it was a government statement, so it was a statement by ČSSD Members and KDU-ČSL Members, at least all those who refuse to deal with it when we vote on the inclusion of the item. You will all logically stand up for Minister Babiš. I'm not saying it's not a legitimate attitude, but it's unacceptable, scandalous, and socially dangerous to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u23	If there are no other preferential rights, that is the first Mr. Chairman, then Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about this case. Of course, I, as a teacher and historian, cannot agree with an incredibly detailed statement. I regret that it has been said, whether it has been ripped out of context or not ripped out of context, after all, it does not have much interest to anyone, and I am even more sorry that the thing that I think can be solved simply in a few sentences and a clear male attitude, so here we will be hanging around it maybe not for a few dozen minutes, but I fear it may take longer, and we will deal with it with various points and resolutions. I think that a person, particularly in a high position, should weigh his words before saying any statement for which he is logically responsible. And when he stops, he should admit that with some humility. As has been said here, we are all able to make a mistake bigger or smaller, but the problem is to remain in error. I can't agree with that. And even though there was an exposé by the Vice Prime Minister based on some experts in the field of historical science, I would, and now, in a good way, not to take it the wrong way, as a teacher I am also sensitive to the way of interpretation - there are two extreme types, either called a snake tranquilizer, you know that after the result here, it was not the case, the Vice Prime Minister was very smug - and I doubt we have an hour of history here, I don't want to hand out any survey papers among you who remembers, but I'm afraid that few people will, if anyone is going to study it from the screen recording, I don't know, maybe yes. But anyway, I think the attitude, if Mr. Vice Prime Minister changed it, and I believe that after visiting Camp Lety, he should have sounded clearly in a few sentences and guys. I firmly believe that the Vice Prime Minister will still be able to do this and that we will do without having to vote for some special points here, because otherwise we will be drowning in this gradually depending on what statements will follow. And I hereby apologise to him for this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u25	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, colleagues, the situation relating to the memorial in Lety has been dealt with for a very long time, and Minister Herman has been taking relatively fundamental steps in this for several months. And I think it's really something that's a little bit beyond what we should be dealing with here. I believe that the statement, and I am convinced of it, was very inappropriate, that it is scandalous and that it is necessary for the Vice Prime Minister to deny this statement in the sense that he will distance himself from it, because only to apologize to those to whom it has touched is not sufficient, and that - I think - if he takes back this statement and looks back against it, that it is a very fundamental position. This matter was also discussed by the government, and his position is certainly not a government position. I think the field trip to history was very interesting, but I think it's good that the Vice Prime Minister has learned, but I think most of us have been familiar with the horrors that have been going on there, and what's important is that we, in addition to the memorial in Lety, need to deal systematically with the excluded localities and what he was talking about, but that's just a diversion from that fundamental point of view. I think if Mr. Vice Prime Minister apologized and took back his statement that it would be of great importance. If we still act at a special point, we'll be even more blurry about it and it'll be more intriguing. I think the shame is enough and, on the other hand, the voters will decide. What's really dangerous is that we legitimize such radical extremist opinions that who doesn't work, so go somewhere with him, I think we have to refuse. On the other hand, I don't see any added value in the fact that we're going to discuss this here for another hour, because I don't think we're going to achieve anything else. And if we want to achieve something and it's supposed to be a concrete result, I think it should be that the Vice Prime Minister will face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u27	Now, with priority rights, the Minister of Finance. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. Well, I can see I'm not gonna disprove the misinformation, I repeat, the photographer lied when he said there was a fundraiser. I never said who doesn't work that we put him in camp. I never said come here. So the wording you've adopted and it's out of context, so, of course, I apologize for it, even though it's never been said that way. Well, I don't know if it's enough for the House to finally start working. So I'm sorry about something I've never said before. And I'm distancing myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u29	If there are no other preferential rights, then we will proceed according to proper applications. Mr Soukup and Mr Lank will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm also going to allow myself a little bit of a detour to our chairman's pseudocussion. I will turn to Mr - through Mr Hamáček, I would like to address Mr President about his speech. We also witnessed Holocaust denial and genocide when it came to the resolution on Armenia. But let's leave it. Around the visit of German chancellor Angela Merklová, our highest political representation was directly exhilarating by making sure that the position of the Czech Republic on migration is invariable. We heard Prime Minister Sobotka in the media several times that he said we wouldn't accept quotas, we wouldn't accept any redistribution mechanisms or anything like that. A few days have passed, and we have a contradiction between words and actions. Mr. Černoch talked about it. I'm not going to spread anymore. It's just that the material that the government actually discussed actually contains a tender for the general integrator of foreigners assigned to the Czech Republic. It's a $500,000 commission. What foreigners? In order to make no mistake that it would be Ukrajinec or people from related areas, I would say from the areas culturally close to us, so the first eight migrants from Syria were accepted and others are waiting. That is why I am asking for a new item to be included in the agenda for this meeting. It should be called Information of the Prime Minister on the actual position on migration and on the European Union agreement with Turkey. It's been on the table before, but I don't think it hurts to do it again. I propose to include this point on Tuesday, 13 September as the third point of the hearing as item No. 20, House press 706. It's before that point about increasing the ombud's powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u31	Yes. Mr. Lank, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would like to put two points on the table, and I will take it with the permission of one. The first one is No. 97, House Press 525, which is a criminal code, and the second is point No. 117, House Press 670, which is a proposal for a law against terrorism. I propose both to place the first point on Wednesday, i.e. tomorrow afternoon for further points, possibly already included. The first bill solves one fundamental error in the criminal code. Although he forbids service in the army of foreign states in the current version, he does not count on the fact that there is also a body that is not officially recognized as a state but still has military power and represents a major security threat. Of course, I'm talking specifically about the so-called. Islamic State. The Czech Criminal Code does not apply to the service in his army, as it follows from our analyses, which is why it needs to be updated, which is precisely what our bill deals with. The second bill is, in brief, a set of several measures taken from the anti-terrorist package adopted in Slovakia, even in a slightly milder version. So I reject in advance that this would be contrary to EU legislation. If it was possible in Slovakia, I don't see why it wouldn't be possible for us. For all the proposed measures, I highlight one thing - the criminality of any, albeit indirect, support for terrorism. Today, at the very least, the criminality of such an activity is questionable, and I therefore consider it crucial to codify the criminality of any support for terrorism. Last year's Security Information Service report also points to the importance of both proposals. It clearly states that even in the Czech Republic there is a threat of terrorist attack by Islamic jihadists. It's quite logical. We are simply part of the Western world with everything to do with it, including these negatives. There were seven people in the Czech Republic who wanted to join terrorists in Syria, and the Security Information Service followed both individuals showing sympathy for the Islamic State and those who wanted to connect directly with it. According to the service report, the return of such persons to the European Union would pose a serious security threat. It has been known for a long time that thousands of Evropan have been going to the Islamic State to fight for it or to spread terror in Europe. And unfortunately, it is only a question of whether the first Čech have moved on to the Islamic State or will soon do so, it is just a matter of time. I would therefore like to call again on the Government and on you, my fellow Members, and let us not underestimate the risk of Islamic terrorism. And I beg you to support the preposition of these bills. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg Mrs Olga Havlová, and after her will be Mr Roman Váňa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u34	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the firm inclusion of paragraph 125, the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, House Press 709. I suggest we put him first on Wednesday 7. 9 p.m., or fixed points. This amendment of our Act on Supported Energy Resources has been parked in the House since January this year. The proposal introduces a mechanism defining the limits of the maximum amount of energy to which the manufacturer is entitled to claim support for renewable sources. As a result, no extra crown would be paid to solarians before it is absolutely necessary. I would like to inform you that the excessive payment takes place despite the urgency of the Energy Regulatory Authority. The total value of which solar barons are so-called overcompensated amounts to CZK 162 billion. The law guarantees a return on investment of up to 15 years. In the Czech Republic, however, there are many protective solar barons who receive subsidies much higher and manage on their power plants. On the other hand, there are solarians who do not have their own faults guaranteed in 15 years of return on investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are most of you in this House who are not satisfied with the current situation and that you will find the courage to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u35	Mr Roman Váňa, please, and Mr Koníček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the petitioner with the Minister of the Interior, I would like to propose item 33, i.e. second reading of the Government's draft law on security activities and the amendment of related laws, House press 495. Disable the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal was discussed by the Security Committee and interrupted its discussion with the fact that a comprehensive amendment to this law will be prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. We therefore propose that this item be excluded from this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. Mr Koníček, please, and Mr Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have two points on the agenda, which are amendments to the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies, and this is paragraph 130, House press 738, and paragraph 173, House press 842. I would like to ask you if we could vote on the first and second points of the afternoon tomorrow - if they are already included there, after the fixed points. And if this proposal is not accepted, then, alternatively, today, after points returned to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr Okamura, please, and Mr Radim Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, reports of Czech citizens fighting in the ranks of the Islamic State have been leaking since last year. And it would be a wonder if there were no Czech Muslims among the thousands of Evropan fighting and killing on the jihadist side. I even think that the government has more accurate and specific information, but it does not publish them for political reasons. We know from practice that the overwhelming majority of terror in Europe has always been jihadists who have returned from fighting in the Middle East or, for example, Afghanistan. Ladies and gentlemen, the most effective prevention against terror is to prevent terrorists from even coming to the Czech Republic. Civilised states therefore now adopt and propose laws that deprive Islamists of citizenship and allow them to be banned from their country. It is time that we too quickly adopted such standards and made it impossible for the jihadists to bring terror from the east to us. I therefore ask, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, to include an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting entitled Amendment to the Constitution and related laws that would prevent the return of people fighting in the ranks of radicals abroad. First of all, an amendment to Article XII is necessary. Constitution of the Czech Republic, which has two completely contradictory points. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 acquisition and loss of citizenship of the Czech Republic is provided for by law. The Constitution therefore gives the legislators the opportunity to lay down rules for the loss of citizenship. However, the second paragraph states that - I quote: "No one can be deprived of citizenship against his will." This sentence must be deleted in connection with terrorism, treason or cooperation with the enemy. It is necessary to regulate the criminal law, which should impose a penalty for the waiver of Czech citizenship for treason, terrorism and cooperation with the enemy with a lifelong ban on entry into the Czech Republic. Of course, at a European level, the government should negotiate an agreement to ban entry into Schengen for all jihadists. If anyone argues that we are prohibited by international conventions from being deprived of citizenship, this is not true and, secondly, the Constitutional Court, in the grounds for its finding on 13 September 1994, stated the ÚS 9.94, that - I quote: "It is the sovereign right of the State to determine the conditions under which citizenship is acquired and lost." Of course, there will be a problem with the location of the exiled, but that is the problem of the whole of Europe. Only in neighbouring Germany are hundreds of thousands of migrants without documents pending expulsion. The expulsion of its own citizens has been approved, for example. and the lower chamber of the French Parliament. It is therefore, without a doubt, a topic that our representatives must address both in the European Union and in the United Nations. On the other hand, the right to be in our home must not outweigh the right of other citizens to live safely. It is important to treat these matters legislatively while it is time for us to be ready. Not until it's too late, as unfortunately is the typical custom of all existing governments. Ladies and gentlemen, before you vote on the acceptance or non-acceptance of this point, please note that you decide whether or not to allow the murder of innocent people in the Czech Republic to occur in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u41	Ambassador, I am afraid we cannot vote on this for one simple reason. We can sort new points, we can sort information, we can sort anything. But if you want to change the law, it has a legal procedure. That is, if you submit a draft amendment to the Constitution, the proposal will be given the number of the House press, the Government's position, and then we can discuss it. But that's not how I think it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u42	Well, Mr. Chairman, you're playing with me again. I propose that we start the debate on this point, and that we include it and discuss this point, because I think the debate is up to date. I'm not laying down any laws here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u43	So that point is going to sound like a debate on the amendment of the Constitution... I guess that would be voteable, but, okay -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u44	Well, I'll say it again, 'cause you've been messing with me here, but I'm ready for your games, as you can see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u45	I am merely following the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ambassador. That's all I have left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u46	So you're testing me here from the Rules of Procedure. Well, then, I'd modify it. I thought it was clear from my interpretation that I would like to discuss the subject, I said it also within my interpretation. Well, okay. So discussing the amendment of the Constitution and related laws that would prevent the return of people fighting in the ranks of radicals abroad. That's the name of my point. Well, maybe you weren't listening to my whole interpretation, it was coming from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u47	I listened very carefully, however, as you put it in writing, it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's okay now. Mr. Fiala, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the following item on the agenda. Mr President, instructed by the previous speech, the item will be called the discussion and discussion of the statements of Zaíd Husajn, Commissioner of the United Nations, to the address of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman. Allow me to justify this proposal. As the media reported today - and you probably know it was one of the main news reports of all news servers - Jordan's UN Human Rights Commissioner Zaíd Husajn sharply attacked a number of world politicians, including President Zeman, on the issue of the so-called. Announcement of hatred for Islam. Rarely, my fellow Members, we have the opportunity to witness the rude and impertinent insulting of the sovereignty of our Republic and its supreme representative, the President, as in the case of the statements made by Mr Zaíd Husajn. We Čech know the proverb of a run-of-the-mill hound. This country, which restricts freedom of political expression, in which it is forbidden to criticise civil servants and authorities, the country in which resignation from Islam means crime, has the gall to nominate its representative as the world Commissioner for Human Rights. We are not interested in a world that is governed as a regime ruling in countries of this type. We are not interested in teaching the highest representatives of the Czech Republic from abroad what policies they are supposed to lead. Mr Husajn's statements confirm the escalating pressure to enforce Islam and the increasing pressure against its legitimate critics. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy is a decisive opponent of Islamization and we support the directly elected president as a representative of the sovereign Czech Republic. I ask the House to include a point at which we will discuss these impertinent statements by the UN representative and, if necessary, call on the Government to take diplomatic steps defending the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. This step can be e.g. strong performance of the Czech representative at the UN. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u49	Yes. Mr Karel Šidl, Mr Laudát, then Mrs Semelová and Mr Huml. So there's four more applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for a new item at today's meeting. I would follow this point on the justification given here by colleague Stanjura from the ODS, and it concerns the previous negotiations prior to the approval of the amendment to the Act, which assessed the effects on the environment, and it was an accelerated construction of transport structures in the Czech Republic, the approval of which, according to the 90th, preceded the meeting at which not only the Minister of the Environment was involved, but also the Minister of Transport. I do not want to concern ourselves with whether or not the ten buildings that have been listed are being observed, but we have announced at this meeting that we are very interested as Members and will also be interested in the Chamber of Deputies, how they will continue with other buildings that do not have an environmental impact assessment, and how these buildings will be progressed. Unfortunately, I can say that to this day, despite all the assurances, we have not received any information. Some time has passed since that June of this year. Therefore, I would ask that this point be named Information by the Minister of Transport on the progress and state of preparation of transport infrastructure constructions which have not received an exception in the validity of the environmental impact assessment, in a simplified way by the EIA. On this subject, I would like to be able to obtain information first on how the preparation of the building continues, which was removed from the original list of exceptions, and this concerns the construction of 511, it is a bypass around Prague, called. continuation of D0, between D1 and Běchovice. In the next part, I would very much like to know how the negotiations between the European Commission, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport progressed on the negotiation of new environmental impact assessment conditions. And the third part is the most serious in my view, whether the remaining 90 transport infrastructure constructions are definitively stopped or will receive some form of necessary environmental impact assessment so that the preparation of these buildings can continue. I therefore ask you once again: Support the inclusion of a new point, as I have already mentioned, the Information of the Minister of Transport on the progress and state of preparation of transport infrastructure constructions which have not received an exception in the validity of the EIA environmental impact assessment. I'd ask for an assignment on September 13th, that's Tuesday, first item in the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u51	Thank you. Please, Mr Laudát, Mrs Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of points, namely the point that you have in the programme as 152, the House's Press 837. It is a proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík and mine to issue a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. It is the press - and since I feel a great chance to discuss it positively across the political spectrum, it is the placement of networks, the possible placement of networks under I. class roads. Therefore point 152 to include as a fixed point, first after the fixed points on Wednesday next week afternoon. This is the first reading, although there is a proposal under Section 90 of the vote. That's my first suggestion. I give the second proposal that item 140 should be firmly inserted, the proposal by Miroslav Kalousek, Martin Plíšek, Marek Ženíšek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on electronic records of sales, House press 792, because the introduction in practice of EET is coming up for next week on Wednesday at the 18th hour as a fixed point. For the next one. Two colleagues have already appeared here, that is the third proposal, but I would try to propose an integrated point. I think that across the political spectrum we feel that the Department of Transport is in a crisis that has not been the same since 1990, and therefore I propose that it be re-listed on the House's agenda and with a specific time, namely the second point after being firmly placed for next week on Wednesday, which would be called the Information of the Prime Minister of the Government of Bohuslav Sobotka on the resolution of the crisis in the Department of Transport, with the fact that what I would consider to be the headings of the negotiations to this point, i.e. Tuesday after the fixed points of the afternoon and Wednesday the second point after the fixed points, next week too, namely those circuits would be very strange -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u53	Mr. Ambassador, I'm very sorry, you've just read a few alternatives, but I didn't get a chance to write them down, so if you can just place the point at when you want to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u54	So the first alternative Tuesday next week and the second alternative Wednesday next week afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u55	Tuesday morning? Sorry, we're starting this afternoon, yeah. Tuesday 14.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u56	The first circuit could concern the issue of continuing toll collection. The second thing that has already been said here, both from Zbyněk Stanjura and Karel Šidl, is the question of the future of realization of transport structures. The fact that the situation is very ruthless, completely without any future or results was pointed out to the Economic Committee last week, when we first asked how the Ministry of Transport imagined the accelerated process of public consultation and the development of a new EIA on the construction of the 511 Prague Circuit. And it was the fulfillment of the resolution that you adopted as accompanying to the EIA. For the next one. Not only has the extended Rudná been removed from the priority buildings. When I told the minister that he might stumble upon it when they said in the law and in the press that it was infrastructure construction on the trans-European network, I pointed out that at least this one, but perhaps some others are not on the trans-European network. He said it was okay that it was approved by Brusel. I have very great doubts as to whether the government is telling us the full truth and, in particular, Prime Minister Sobotka, whether he has presented all the evidence here as agreed with the President of the European Commission whether everything is valid. For example, I recently stumbled upon information from the building 511 that the government didn't brag about, or Prime Minister Sobotka, who writes from Brussels from the head of DG, that he actually shares almost the happiness of paraphrasing that the 511 on the Prague circuit had been eliminated. Indeed, the situation is so trivial, I think that across the political spectrum we agree that everyone wants highways to be built to rebuild first class roads, etc. etc. The situation is even worse, that in the Economic Committee, if we are discussing certain laws in detail as a guarantee committee, we are encountering repeated problems. For example, until today I am unable to find out, we also have an amendment to the Civil Aviation Act included in the programme, and indeed not only I, but also colleagues have been in a very special situation, although we are doing a great deal of work, we are not able to find out which of the resorts or its representatives are lying, whether the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Defence in the case of airports, which may even be allegedly stolen according to some etc. And actually, we can't find the answer, there's a contradiction, even though the ministers have agreed, but we're already warned, approved or not approved of the floor, so we're not able to trace the impact. It is also happening that even members of the government coalition, their own parties, vote against the minister of responsibility, for example, in the case of the STK on the open road law. [[15.30 hours]] I just don't think he's going in like this anymore. Therefore, I strongly urge that we then agree on some modification, that one of the proposals that we are actually presenting here from the third party should be passed, and that point has been used, with the fact that it is simply unacceptable for me that even the representatives of the ANO movement should throw among themselves who bears more responsibility. Minister Šlechtová wasn't there, so she also got hit last Wednesday, or Minister of Transport Ťok or Minister of the Environment. I feel like it's one big pilgrimage cabaret, but it would be funny if it wasn't for such serious things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u57	I thank Mr Laudát. Good afternoon, Madame, gentlemen. We will continue with the proposals to amend the agenda or to clarify the agenda by speaking with Mrs Marta Semelová, a colleague of Huml, then a colleague of Mr Josef Novotný, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to put item 137 in order, House press 780, this is a draft act on alternative maintenance, on Tuesday, September 13, as the first item in the afternoon meeting. The reason for this is to address the emergency situation of single mothers or single parents whose children get into poverty due to the failure to pay their child support from the other parent. According to data from ČSÚ in 2014, incomplete families with children accounted for almost 11 percent of all family households and live in about 400 thousand. children, which is about 22 percent of all dependent children. In the coalition agreement, the parties of the current government coalition committed three years ago to submitting the Act on Advanced, respectively, in the current parliamentary term. Substitute maintenance, but they have not yet done so. In fact, incomplete families are among the risk groups most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. This fact is pointed out by me. analysis of ČSÚ published in 2015 focusing on the life, economic situation and financial background of single parents. I note that currently single women account for 81 percent of the total number of single persons. In the Czech Republic, as the analysis shows, approximately one third of these households are threatened by income poverty or social exclusion. According to the findings of the CZSO, for example, every 14th family cannot provide children with a week's vacation away from home or pay for regular leisure activities. Almost every 17th household cannot provide their children with suitable learning conditions, or pay for school events such as swimming, ski courses, stays in schools in nature, trips etc. The number of families that cannot pay children or school lunches also grows. And in connection with the beginning of the school year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u59	I will interrupt you, my colleague, and ask the sněmovna for peace. I believe that the last three entries will draw attention to the programme, so please bear with the reasons for the individual proposals. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u60	In connection with the beginning of the school year, many of these families have been significantly indebted just to give their children everything that the school needs. The state should therefore pay particular attention to these families, for each month of delays is an enormous burden on the singles in their lives. Another reason why it is necessary to introduce a substitute maintenance institute into the Czech legal system is the generally low level of enforcement of law in the Czech Republic. Non-payment of maintenance by the parent is, according to police statistics, the second most common crime in 2015. According to these figures, approximately 40 percent of parents do not respect maintenance obligations, and as I have already mentioned, children pay the most. That is why we consider it necessary as a KSČM club to discuss and approve a proposal urgently that will help parents who fail to recover the maintenance provided for by the court. Once again, I propose that item 137, House press 780 on replacement maintenance, on Tuesday, September 13, be the first item in the afternoon negotiations, and I ask you, colleagues, for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u61	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Mr Huml will take the floor with his proposal and prepare Mr Josef Novotný, the last one entered into the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u62	Hello. I'll be brief, I won't justify it, because we won't be able to justify it until the first reading. I would just like to put point 158, which is printing 866 on income tax, after compliance with the petitioner and rapporteur for tomorrow, i.e. Wednesday, at 14.30 as a fixed point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u63	Wednesday at 2:30. Let's see how many will be listed there. Okay, thank you, Mr. Huml. Mr. Josef Novotný now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for a solid inclusion of the point under the number 170 in the programme. It is a proposal from the embassies of the Karlovy Vary Region to issue a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, House Press 601. Allow me to apply for inclusion on Tuesday, September 13th after the fixed points, or, if this did not pass, on Friday, September 16th, again after the fixed points. The reason is simple. This novel is called The regional highway signs are here in the House after the first reading for about a year and a half and I am still meeting the views of citizens in individual regions when this proposal will be discussed. This is a proposal, how do I find out when a number of ministers, Members etc. He still thinks that this is a proposal intended to serve the citizens of the Karlovy Vary Region only and only. Of course, that's not true. This is a proposal that would address the situation, for example, in a family with two cars. In one car, one of the parents drives to work, he puts a road sign all year round, a nationwide, and the other one drives the other parent to work, but he drives around the highway and runs around the districts. Of course, he'd like to buy a CZK 300 stamp here, and of course the state register wouldn't suffer from it. It would actually be a citizen's pass. I could give examples to a number of people. Of course this one is one of many. For example, every county has a foreign neighbor. We have Němec, Liberec Region or pardubický Polák, Rakušan again South Bohemia etc. These people go to these regions very often only after lunch, they go there to buy petrol, visit etc. and he's driving down the county. He won't buy a stamp for 1,500 crowns. If they had the opportunity to buy a year-round stamp for 300 crowns, they would definitely do it and they would make a profit from it. Another example, of course, is the elderly. A lot of retired people, for example, go from Cheb to Vars to the hospital. A lot of people are going to Vars from Cheb for hockey. Just as many people go from Pelhřimov to Jihlava to hockey etc. That means it's a new kind of highway stamp, and I'd like some of you to finally register it and understand it and not say words like that's a sign only for the citizens of the Karlovy Vary Region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u65	I thank Mr Josef Novotný. Roman Sklenák, Chairman of the ČSSD MP's club, is still reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u66	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, in line with what I have announced today at the House's meeting, I would like to propose, on behalf of the coalition MPs, that we should discuss today and vote in terms of terms of terms and procedures on all proposals even after 19 o'clock. We have the ambition to at least discuss the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u67	Yes, that will be the procedural proposal that I will place after we vote on the individual items of the program. If no one reports, I am ending the debate on the programme and we will therefore vote on individual proposals. I'm asking my colleagues to check on me because when I was in charge of the meeting, I didn't have all the documents on hand. The first thing we would vote on is the proposal for a political grémium, i.e. that we would vote on the solid inclusion of the points, the laws that the Senate has given back to us, i.e. printing 504/6, proof of the origin of the property, electoral laws 568/9, 608/5 Railway Act and biocidal products 589/4. To what was the first point here, the second to the fifth point. And then to paragraph 247, it would be added to Thursday as a fixed item number 2 after written interpelations, print 832, paragraph 214, which is the outlook for economics, macroeconomic outlooks. That's quite a grémium proposal. We will decide in the vote number two, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2. 177 for 161 Members present. Before we proceed with the individual proposals, I will also read the apologies, namely Mr Klaška from 15.15 to 16.00 and Mr Kučera from 17 to 19.00. We will now consider the various proposals that have been tabled in the debate. The first proposal is the proposal by Mr Kalousek, who proposes that we include a new item in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the statements of the First Vice-President of the Government on the concentration camp in Lety on Day 6. 9. as the first point, i.e. put in front of all. We will decide in the vote number 3 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3. From present 175 for 30, against 47. The motion was not accepted. The third proposal on which we are going to vote is the proposal by Mr and the President of the ANO Faltýnek Club, which proposes to include item 77, House print 886, first reading, Government proposal of the Criminal Code, amendment, and item 17, Government proposal of the Civil Code, print 642, second reading, Tuesday as the fourth and fifth fixed point. That's one vote. Furthermore, item 206, draft law on conservation of nature and landscape, House press 501, to eliminate it. So we're going to vote twice because they're different proposals. First of all, a firm classification of prints 886 and 642 on 13. 9. as the fourth and fifth fixed point. I have begun voting number 4 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 4. From the present 177 for 127, against 14. The motion was accepted. Now elimination point 206, House press 501. We will decide in the vote number 5, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the elimination of the draft law on the conservation of nature and landscape. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 5. From the present 177 for 101, against 35. The motion was accepted. We will not discuss this press. Those were Mr. Faltýnek's proposals. The next proposal is Mr Černoch's proposal, including a new item The issue of the approval of a public contract for the selection of an integrated programme for 6,000 immigrants, if that is correct... [[The Blackman is coming to clarify off the microphone.]] An integrator. That means whoever's doing the surgery. Yes, for migrants. We'll decide in the vote number six that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 6. From the present 177 for 43, versus 50. Therefore, the proposal has not been adopted and will not be dealt with. Another enrolled was President Stanjura, who proposes that we include a point, namely the information of the Minister of the Environment on the government's regulation, which sets out the constructions that require a new EIA - do not require a new EIA, so, sorry, to be precise. You've heard the reasons. I think we can vote. We will decide in the vote number 7 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 7. From the present 178 for 92, against 49. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask my colleague Stanjuru to give the material so that we can name the point exactly when we amend the invitation. Another envoy was Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who calls for the inclusion of a new item, the Prime Minister's information on the real attitude towards migration and the agreement with Turkey, if I paraphrase it freely, the speech and the point that is here. Actually, it's to the point of migration. We will decide in the vote number 8, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 8. From the present 177 for 93, versus 25. This item was put on the agenda, so we will deal with it. Another Member who proposed a change of programme is Mr Martin Lank. He's requesting re-routing point 97, penal code, on Wednesday, 2:30 p.m. That's a solid point classification. And point 117, law against terrorists, Wednesday after point 97. That means these two points to place on their own. I think it's all from him to tell you exactly. Yes. Mr. Chairman Stanjura, let me get this straight...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u68	That's right, Mr. Vice-President. I beg you - you said the law against terrorists. Now I don't know exactly which press you have or which point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u69	It's press 670 and it would be point 117, press 670, to include as point 97, criminal code. So I'm going to repeat it exactly as it was written. And so it's Wednesday, which is why I was the first point at 14.30, i.e. Right after lunch break, point 97, and the second point would be point 117. Yes? [[15.50 hours]] My colleague, Lank, will clarify. [[Member Lank: Especially.]] Especially vote. Okay. We will vote first on the solid inclusion of paragraph 97 of the Criminal Code on Wednesday 14.30. I've started voting number nine, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 9 of the present 177 for 44, against 69. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the firm inclusion of press item 670, paragraph 117, also on Wednesday after the midday break, in the vote number 10 that I started. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 10 of the 177 present for 10, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Another enrollment was Mrs Olga Havlová, who requested the inclusion of point 125, supported by energy sources, on Wednesday 17. 9. on fixed points. So far, we haven't put one in tight, so it's 2:30. We are going to vote in the number 11 vote that I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour of this firm inclusion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 11 of 178 present for 53, against 78. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider Mr Roman Váňa's proposal, which proposes removing item number 33 of the House Press 495 from the agenda of this meeting. We will decide in the vote number 12, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 12 of 179 in favor of 166, against no one. This item was excluded from the 49th meeting in progress. We will now consider Mr Vladimír Koníček's proposal to include 7 tomorrow. 9. the first and second points at 14.30, i.e. after lunch break, points 130 and 173. If this doesn't go through, then today, we're going to include them after the passed laws from the Senate have been renegotiated. It's points 130 and 173 for a fixed assignment for tomorrow. I started voting number 13. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 13 of 178 present for 35, against 115. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on whether we could discuss these points today after the Senate bills. I've started voting number 14 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 14 of 178 present for 33, against 112. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore vote on Mr Tomio Okamura's proposal, which is called a debate on the amendment of the Constitution, to prevent the proposal of people fighting in the ranks of radicals abroad. This is how the text is based on written material. We will decide without a solid inclusion in the agenda of the meeting. I've started voting number 15 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 15 of 179 for 12, against 107. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider another proposal, and this is Mr Radim Fiala's proposal, the inclusion of a new item in the discussion on the UN Zaíd Zaed Husajn's remarks against the President of the Republic, yet without a firm determination, but inclusion in the agenda of the meeting. I've started voting number 16. Who is in favour of discussing this point? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 16 of the present 180 for 18, against 100. The motion was not accepted. So we can consider another proposal, and this is the proposal of Mr Karel Šidl, who calls for the inclusion of a new item Information of the Minister of Transport on the progress and state of preparation of the constructions for which the EIA is needed. That's what we're going to decide in the 17 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 17 was 180, for 92, against 63. This proposal has also been adopted and we will address this point. Thank you, with another vote ahead of us, Mr František Laudát's proposal, which proposes the Information of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to deal with the situation in the transport department, and, alternatively, on Wednesday, be the second point after the fixed points. Sorry, 13. 9. or 14. 9. Like this. I'm sorry, because I haven't said to my colleague Sidlo that it was a solid assignment on 13. 9. as the first point. I didn't say that. We have to vote for it. If we agree to the solid inclusion of the point. I have begun voting number 18 and I ask who is in favour of the solid inclusion of the point that we have just adopted, this is the proposal by Mr Šidl. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 18 of the present 180 for 78, against 69. So the firm classification has not passed, but we will have to follow the fact that one such point has already been accepted, and we will probably vote on them together. Now at 14 o'clock on Tuesday 13. 9. information from Prime Minister Sobotka on the solution in the transport resort, as suggested by colleague Laudát. That's the first alternative. I've started voting number 19 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 19 of 180 present for 83, against 71. The motion was not accepted. [[16.00 hours]] So the second alternative is that we would discuss this information 14. 9. as the second point after fixed points. I have begun voting number 20 and I ask who is in favour of discussing this information. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20. Of the present 180, for 82, against 71. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Now, we have a proposal from the Member... oh, sorry, here's a comment on the solid inclusion of paragraph 140, EET, House press 792, on Wednesday 14. 9:00 p.m., okay? So, it's my colleague, Laudat, that is, a solid classification of the point of print 792, Wednesday 14. 9:00 p.m. I started voting number 21. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21. Of the present 180, for 75, against 83. The motion was not accepted. We are now coming to Mrs Marta Semelová's proposal to include paragraph 137... [[A Member of the Laudat shall take the floor.]] My colleague Laudát reporting. I'm sorry, maybe I forgot one of his designs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have suggested a third, and that is the inclusion of paragraph 152, Kovářová and spol. It's the nets under the roads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u71	Yes, the roads, the networks in the municipalities. Okay. We will therefore vote on paragraph 152, a fixed inclusion of the point on Wednesday 14. 9. as a first point and it is a law on roads. I started voting number 22. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 22. Of the present 181, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. I see our communities have a green light. We're gonna keep going, and that's what I'm implying. Mrs Marta Semelová's proposal for a fixed entry point for Tuesday 13. 9. It's point 137, print 780, replacement maintenance, as the first item in the afternoon's meeting. I've started voting number 23. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23. Of the present 181, for 39, against 117. The motion was not accepted. And so this one will be in order. We now have Mr Huml's proposal, which also proposes a tax on income at the centre of the assignment of paragraph 158. We will decide by vote number 24, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 24. Of the present 181, for 127, against 33. The motion was accepted. And now here is the last proposal that concerns the solid inclusion of point 170 next week, and that is the proposal of the Karlovy Vary Region on roads. Tuesday, 13. 9. as the first point after fixed points, or alternatively 16. 9. So we're voting 13 first. 9. as the first point after fixed points. I have begun the vote on order number 25. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 25. Of the present 181, for 43, against 87. The motion was not accepted. So now we will vote on whether this point 170, print 601, will be discussed on 16. 9. Friday after fixed points. We will decide by voting order number 26, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 26. Of the present 181, for 44, against 71. The motion was not accepted. So we have one last, this time a procedural proposal, and it does not concern the inclusion of a point, but the deadline for examining the draft laws after 19 o'clock, as proposed by the President of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák - who calls for withdrawal. I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we will discuss the laws today even after 19 o'clock, as proposed. We will decide by voting order number 27, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 27. Of the 174 present, for 87... The motion has been rejected so far, but I can see that there is a request to check the electronic record of the result of the vote. [[Electronic registration check in progress.]] I'll wait for electronic registration checks on the result of the vote. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please. I will give the floor to Mr Veleb. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u72	Mr. Vice-President. Thank you for the floor. Mr. Velebný is at the microphone. Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I have a cross on high. I voted yes. So I'm sorry, and I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u73	Okay. Under the Rules of Procedure Act, Mr Velebný questioned the electronic record of the outcome of the vote when his will was different from that expressed in the vote. I will therefore fill the letter of the Rules of Procedure Act and we will vote on whether you agree to repeat this vote because it is called into question. I started voting number 28. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 28. From the present 177, for 158, against 3. The motion was accepted. [[16.10 hours]] We will therefore vote again on Mr Roman Sklenák's proposal that we should discuss the laws today after 19 o'clock. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 29, from 177 in favour of 93, against 74. This time the proposal was accepted. No one is required to check electronic registration. I therefore note that we have approved the changes to the agenda and our negotiations on the laws will take at least 21 hours. [[Sudden noise in the hall.]] We will therefore now vote on the draft agenda for the meeting, as amended by the amendments. Before the vote, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát with priority rights. I ask the House for peace. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since most of you do not consider it important to address the scandalous position of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government on the Romani Holocaust, and secondly, that you do not consider it important that this House should deal with a very urgently catastrophic situation in the Department of Transport, if you don't mind that the year-on-year decline in construction in the Czech Republic is over 16 percent, if you don't mind that since February the number of contracts has fallen, the volume of finance in engineering activities in construction by 43 percent, if you don't mind that citizens will not see the key part of the Prague Circuit, if you don't mind that you were dragging the Moravian-Silesian Region with extended Rudna, and other and other things, I am just saying that I will not be finished. And if you have not approved that all Members have the right to comment on the situation next week, unfortunately, it will only come to priority rights. And what I'm trying to say is that tonight's TOP 09 club is going to abstain from supporting the program, which apparently the coalition party is voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u75	Thank you. We will therefore now vote on the 49th meeting as a whole. [[A commotion in the hall.]] Are you still President Kalousek? No. We can therefore vote on the agenda for the meeting. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 30, from 178 in favour of 95, against 64. The draft programme has been adopted. Before we begin to discuss individual points, the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek is now claiming priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to hold you back for a moment, but instructed by the old rule that a hundred times a lie will become the truth, if someone doesn't turn back quickly, I'd like to stand before all of you in front of the president of our commission, the Chamber of Deputies of Deputies, Daniel Korte. He does not have a preferential right, so I feel a collegial obligation to do so for him. In the early afternoon, Mr Korte was grossly blamed by the Minister of Finance, the First Vice-President of the Government, with the fact that he is lying and that the Vice-President of the Government fundamentally rejects his lie. The story lies in the fact that President Korte, as Chairman of the Commission for wiretapping, stated at a press conference that the Minister of Finance is violating the law in the conduct of wiretapping. Listening to individuals is a very sensitive matter affecting every citizen's personal integrity, so they are subject to very thorough scrutiny and parliamentary scrutiny. Parliamentary control must be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, by the General Inspection of the Security Corps and by the Minister of Finance, as the Customs Administration is also equipped, under certain circumstances, to eavesdrop. Customs Act effective from 1. 1. 2013 lays down the obligation twice a year to hand over the report to the supervisory authority, which is chaired by Mr Korte, as the Minister of the Interior has determined, to the General Inspection of the Security Corps. While the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps does so, the Minister of the Interior does so in due course, the Minister of Finance does not do so. Some of us even have good reason to believe that he does not do so on purpose. When Mr Korte today said the bare fact to which he is empowered by all of us, because he is to carry out the check that the Minister of Finance is breaking the law, because to this day he has received no report for the entire period of the Minister, although the law imposes this duty on the Minister twice a year, the Minister responded in a classic way: "This is a complete lie. I fundamentally refuse to do so. That's another pseudo-affair, a lie. It's not my personal problem. It is the problem of the Customs Administration and the Customs Administration is doing just as it did for Minister Kalousek." The fact is, it's not a Customs issue. The law imposes this on the Minister of Finance as a person, not the Customs Administration as an institution. So that's the Minister of Finance's personal problem. If the Ministry of Finance did so as Minister Kalousek did, it would also violate the law, because the report for Minister Kalousek under the former legislation was to such an extent slim that Minister Kalousek did not like it and imposed a much stricter obligation on himself, the Minister of Finance, to submit himself to Parliament's monitoring on the question of wiretapping, in 2012 approved as Act 17/2012. That means, even if he did his duty as he once did according to the old laws of Kalousek, he would still break the law. Problem is, he didn't fill it at all. The supervisory authority of your Chamber of Deputies has been waiting in vain for one single audit report, which the Minister of Finance is obliged to pass on twice a year to this Chamber of Deputies. It's a frantic violation of the law. It's ignoring the law. It is a contempt for the law crowned by the fact that the chairman of the Supervisory Commission was accused and labeled a liar. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the Minister of Finance falsely and insultingly accused the President of your commission of lying that the Minister of Finance repeatedly violates the law on wiretapping individuals. I very much hope that the Minister will try to prove his point, or he will apologize to Mr Korte and resign from his position without violating the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u77	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Let's keep going. Advantage rights outside the points of the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond because I actually learned today that such an obligation is. [[Laughs of some Members, a rare round of applause.]] Because probably Mr. Kalousek was actually studying the wiretaps, maybe organizing them, so he's interested in them, I'm not interested in them. I know. Customs has jurisdiction to eavesdrop. But I didn't know they reported it to anyone because I didn't know it during my term of office. As Mr Kalousek went to see his friend Knížek at Financial Administration and organized various financial controls as I joined the office, Mr Knížek brought me some paper to Minister Marksová, which I of course refused, so he went to the FAO where he then executed, we remember the Mopro affair, as the Minister abused his duties at FAO. And you guys, when you came out of the FAO's inspection, I said, "Yeah, check whatever you want." You're in control today, you're going there, I don't know what you found out. Even the FAO separates. [[16.20 hours]] That's how I learned today that it's an obligation to report wiretaps. Well, I guess Mr. Kalousek always knew, 'cause he probably needed the wiretaps. I didn't need them. I have a statement from Deputy Schillerová that we are doing this duty in exactly the same way that it was fulfilled for Mr Kalousek. Well, I don't know. Do an investigation committee on it. Yesterday I was on the committee of inquiry, Mr Korte was doing great, the questions were amazing, the experience for life. So you can take the committee. I have the Deputy Minister's statement, the Customs Service is doing so, and I have nothing to add to that, which is why I say that it is not true because my subordinates have informed me so. And I never cared about wiretaps. Probably Mr Kalousek always needed them for his political work. I don't need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u79	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Andrea Babiš. Once again, Mr. Kalousek's application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u80	I'm sorry, but you can't not react because it's a serious matter! I would like to believe - not that I believe him - but even if I believed the Minister of Finance that he was not interested in wiretapping, he must be interested in the laws imposed on him by the law of the Czech Republic. For, as Minister of Government, he promised that he would respect the laws, including the Constitution. I'm leaving aside now that it's not by far the first law to ignore. At the press conference today, when he accused Mr Korte of lying, he said that he was doing exactly the same as Kalousek did. I'm stressing that if this were done as much as Kalousek did, it's a violation of the law, because from 1. 1. 2013 applies a much stricter law. But he doesn't do it at all! And don't let him talk about Customs! The law imposes it on the Treasury Secretary. Even the law doesn't say the Treasury. Act - § 65 - on Customs Administration says the Minister of Finance is obliged! Not Customs, not Deputy Schillerová! And this is the Minister of Finance's personal failure! Moreover, I am convinced that I have several sources from the Customs Administration that have told me that this report is indeed being transmitted by the Customs Administration to the Ministry of Finance, that the Minister of Finance has it at his disposal, but refuses to give it to the Chamber of Deputies. And simply the chairman of our supervisory body lacks six audit reports from the Ministry of Finance about the debriefing of natural persons! And a minister who goes through breaking the law in his own government, so then it's more of a question for the Prime Minister, it's just not a rule of law. If the Prime Minister is unable to enforce the law from his own ministers, he cannot talk about the rule of law. And what I say here, whenever Mr Korte is able to prove. And again, I am waiting for an apology when the Minister of Finance, the First Vice-President of the Government, has accused our chairman of lying. If he had the reports, that's not what Mr Korte says.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-000-000.u81	This was with priority right Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. If no one checks in, we'll be back on the approved agenda. First, I'm gonna read the apology to the Prime Minister. Chamber of Deputies: between 16 and 21 o'clock, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková apologises. And now we can begin. Let me also, because we have the laws returned by the Senate to ask you for a decision under the Rules of Procedure Act, that, at the request of the President of the Senate, we would allow the appearance of Senators Eliška Wagnerová, Ivana Cabrnochová, Dagmar Terelmešová, Senators Pavel Šilar, František Bradáč, Jan Hajda, Miroslav Nenutil, Radek Martínek and Petr Bratský. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In the vote, order number 31, we would decide on the appearance of the proposed senators. I've started voting number 31 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 31, of the 102 Members present for 98, against none. We're cleared. Now we can really deal with the Senate's return proposal. It's a point number.
