ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 38/2004 Coll., on insurance intermediaries and separate insurers of insurance events and on the amendment of trade law (the Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events), as amended (the House Print 751/ - first reading) Both the designer and the rapporteur are the same as before. This means that, under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Act on insurance intermediaries, on which there is coalition agreement, is the result of a debate that lasted almost one year on the subject. The Government's draft law now regulates certain financial relations resulting from early termination of the agreed life insurance. This is, on the one hand, the method of determining the remuneration for insurance intermediation, on the other hand, the amount of the remuneration paid to insurance clients at the cancellation of investment or capital life insurance. The aim of the proposed draft is to reduce the negative effects associated with early termination of life insurance. This is, on the one hand, a frequent re-insurance of clients in the first years of life insurance, which is motivated by a high proportion of the pre-paid part of the commission agreed between the insurance undertaking and the insurance intermediary. This also leads to the mentioned low value of the redemptions for clients, to which the insurance undertaking projects the commissions paid or other types of purchase costs in full. The proposed regulation of commissions introduces an obligation to return the proportional part of the agreed commission if the insurance ends prematurely during the first five years of its term. This provision applies to insurance under the Civil Code, which falls within the life insurance sector under the Insurance Act. At the same time, the Act provides for exceptions on the basis of which this regulation does not apply to life insurance with evenly paid commissions and life insurance with one-off insurance. The subject matter of the new allowance adjustment is the rule on the compulsory distribution of the insurance undertaking's life insurance costs up to a certain minimum number of years so that, at the time of early termination of the contract, a higher amount can be paid to the ransom clients than is currently the case. In this case, the adjustment logically applies only to life insurances which, according to the insurance contract, constitute the right to pay the ransom. These two elements aim, on the one hand, to involve an insurance intermediary in the long term of life insurance mediated and, on the other hand, to ensure that, at the early termination of the insurance, the policyholder is reimbursed more of the premiums paid in the form of a repurchase agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and ask the rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Šincl, to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u4	Dear Government, honourable Members, allow me once again today, I hope that this will be the last, briefly supplemented by the petitioners today. As I announced in press 750, the proposal to regulate the remuneration for life insurance mediation this time is dealt with separately in this press. Unlike the last press 750, this proposed amendment is entirely a national regulation, so-called no legal act of the European Union. The issue has not yet been modified despite several attempts in the past, my fellow Members. This amendment seeks only to regulate the remuneration for life insurance mediation. It is therefore not an amendment to the law as a whole within the framework of the implementation of the European Union Directive on distribution in the financial market, the so-called IDD, and the amendment to the elimination of negative phenomena in the financial market, previously a press of 415. This, in my personal opinion, is a pity, because the Insurance Intermediaries Act would certainly deserve to be adapted to a number of areas. In particular, a register of intermediaries kept at the Czech National Bank, an insurance supervisory authority, would deserve the adjustment when -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u5	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace, both in the left corner and in the right, so that we can finish your intelligence report in a dignified environment. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u6	Thank you, Mr President. In order to keep my colleagues from getting away with it, I'm willing to repeat it to them, at least this sentence. First of all, a register of intermediaries kept at the Czech National Bank is worthy of the adjustment, where the consumer cannot at present verify whether and what insurance intermediary represents. According to real estimates, there is non-current information for between 50 and 60 per cent of subjects. It would be necessary by law to create such conditions that the register is still kept in the current state, the register has been cleaned up to set conditions for automation of registrations, changes and mainly by the registration of intermediaries. I believe that it is also very necessary by law in this context to strengthen the powers of the supervisory authority of the Czech National Bank to withdraw licences from intermediaries. Last but not least, it is important to set the conditions for increasing the professional and professional competence of intermediaries. All of this will help to exclude from the market those intermediaries who, through their actions, harm the financial market with poor mediation, unjustified renegotiation, so-called rewinding of contracts to clients in order to regain their financial reward, and who also do so-called financial fraud and the like. It is a pity that the petitioner did not take this chance and did not complete the material submitted originally as House printing 415, this is an amendment to Act 38/2004 Coll., on insurance intermediaries as a whole, which contained a number of positive proposals for measures, and behind it was seen a piece of the well done work of the team of Deputy Minister Lenka Jurošková. As I have already said, according to the explanatory memorandum, the proposed regulation aims to reduce negative phenomena in the current life insurance market, i.e. frequent overpayments and the associated low or zero value of the purchase fee received by the client at the early termination of the provisioning insurance, typically investment life insurance and capital life insurance. The subject matter of regulation is, in particular, the distribution of the intermediary's right to remuneration over time. It applies to life insurance under the Civil Code, which falls within the life insurance sector pursuant to § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Insurance Act. This proposal is not as thick a reading as printing 750, which had up to 157 pages. There are only two sides to this law without an explanatory report, but I still allow myself to estimate that it will raise again more debate, often disinterpretation, and also emotion. It is logical, however, as this amendment seeks to regulate the most sensitive for the benefit of consumers, this is the remuneration of insurance intermediaries. Just to remind the commemorators, let me state that I have repeatedly tried to submit a proposal for the regulation of remuneration as an amendment last year to the Parliamentary Press 415 and also to the Parliamentary Press 414, this is to the amendment to Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, on which the Czech National Bank regulator in his letter of 10. 5. 2015 stated - I quote - that it considers this proposal to be the best that has so far appeared in a serious political debate in this area, and that it can help set up more correct long-term conditions on the insurance market and can benefit all players on this market, including consumers, of course, and even primarily them. [[15.00 hours]] The essence of my proposal was to reduce and cap the maximum advance remuneration paid to intermediaries, today swelled up to about 200 per cent of the annual premium, and in the event of early termination of the insurance contract part of the commission currently paid to intermediaries I wanted to direct back to clients in the framework of the repurchase agreement. In my proposal - in the original one - it was strictly regulated at the time that the funds behind the so-called commission returns would not be credited back to insurance companies, as was published in some media, but would be returned to the client. It would be billions of crowns in favour of clients, citizens of the Czech Republic, within their insurance policies. The ceiling of 20 per cent of the annual premiums for the so-called "survivor" was also clearly set. the interim remuneration of the intermediary if he would waive the forward commission and accept the commission paid for the entire duration of the insurance contract. To this day, I believe that this kind of remuneration would be a significant stabilization factor for the life insurance market. As you may remember here, despite the positive position quoted by the Czech National Bank, the Authority of Insurance Supervision, my proposal, diplomatically speaking, did not receive sufficient and clear support from the petitioner, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. However, this proposal of mine probably had some deeper wisdom in it, and in order to probably buy time for its proper assessment, the government on the proposal of the petitioner, i.e. The Ministry of Finance, by its resolution number 534 took back the Government's bill amending Act No 38, i.e. the one we are discussing today, insurance intermediaries, that is, press 415, which was announced to the honourable Chamber of Deputies on 7. 7. 2015. This newly designed and presented regulation of the remuneration for providing life insurance benefits is very similar to my original one. But she's not exactly the same. It contains all the ways in which the remuneration has been paid. It contains the intermediary's advance payment and its distribution up to five years, the advance on the remuneration, the one-off payment, all without setting the ceiling. The proposal also includes so-called the interim remuneration of the intermediary paid for the entire duration of the insurance contract, where the percentage of remuneration does not change over the years. At this point, at this point, I would like to thank the petitioner for this proposal, because I believe that this is a qualitative move forward and a step in the right direction. However, in my opinion, it contains still a few unclear places, which I believe still need to be held in the Chamber of Deputies and, in particular, in the Committee on Guarantees, a professional discussion. My personal opinion - I stress my personal opinion that someone should not accuse anyone of coalition - is that, in practice, the proposed proposal may, I stress, lead to a change in the remuneration model within five years, and after five years of insurance, considerable costs of reprogramming the system can be spent, and the benefit to the client to the paid sale in the event of a cancellation of the insurance contract can then be questionable. The reason for my concerns is that in the autumn of last year I recorded information from insurance intermediaries on the insurance market, which was also publicly presented on their eInsurance website for example. cz, an attempt to maximize the rate of this mediation fee up to twice the current situation. This was precisely in the context of the already discussed proposal for regulation for the advance payment of remuneration and its current non-capping. If you remember, so-called. Votava's proposal to the House Press 415. Why these efforts? By this step, i.e. by increasing the level of remuneration, the theoretical increase in the level of remuneration, the level of commission of intermediaries could, I stress, theoretically increase from today's, for example, 200 per cent of annual premiums to, for example, 350 to 400 per cent, which could essentially eliminate the proposed benefit for the client and the sense of the proposed distribution of remuneration to a five-year period with a return on remuneration in the event of a cancellation of a policy, which is an increase in the value of the paid-up client. It is logical that this could mean a return to the current state. This is a negative impact on the consumer who would then have nothing left of the seller again. The discussion on the negative effects of the cropping ends with the interim remuneration paid for the entire duration of the insurance. In the case of determining the upper ceiling of the annual commission rate, for example 20 per cent, and its non-limitation the period of insurance, for example five years, the intermediary, which supplies quality service and stays with the client for years, then received a non-limited total reward throughout the duration of the insurance. After all, this works without any problems today in the rewards of non-life insurance mediation, where, in a strong competitive environment, the level of the annual remuneration rate is regulated by the market itself. In order not to delay you today, I'm going to try to convince you of theoretically possible negative impacts on the client with some calculations. In order not to be accused of bias and to avoid unnecessary emotions in the Chamber of Deputies, I would also like to present them to experts in the Ministry of Finance and perhaps to the regulator, i.e. Czech National Bank, with a request for a proper opponent. I would be happy if the Ministry of Finance or the Czech National Bank would dispel my concerns. The reality is that, unfortunately, the insurance market is unable today, given the competitive environment, to face these pressures on the constant increase in commissions, which also demonstrates the growing development of remuneration rates in the past. Agreements between insurers are not legally possible. Self-regulation is questionable. We can also see from development that it never actually worked. It is then up to us and our discussion on this press, how do we evaluate whether this proposed solution, the solution presented here, fulfils the original intentions to limit the initial cost of investment life insurance for the benefit of the consumer and, in particular, to refund the maximum amount of insurance paid in the event of early termination of the insurance contract back to the client through a repurchase agreement. You know my opinion on this issue from the past. That is why I have prepared and filed the first amendment to the Parliamentary press 415. I still believe that without setting the upper limit of the remuneration for mediation - it is my personal opinion, I stress - and the waiver of the refund in the event of a cancellation of an insurance contract to be disposed of does not have to work completely effectively. After all, for the supplementary - I am stressing now, please listen to me very carefully - for for supplementary pension insurance, savings, such regulation already works. In particular, Section 63 of the Act. No. 427/2011 Sb. That's where the so-called "exactly" is. the commission ceiling calculated from some specific indicators. Then why couldn't this work with life insurance? If there is another significant increase in commissions on the insurance market, then the initial costs to the consumer may not be sufficiently reduced. There is also the risk that the period of speculative renegotiation for certain intermediaries will be extended to only five years after two to three years - the current situation. So much introduction to this press, which, despite my personal statement - I stress personal - I recommend releasing reservations for second reading and ordering them to the budget committee, where I believe that there will be certainly an interesting and mainly professional discussion, and I hope without unnecessary emotions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u7	I thank Mr Ladislav Šincl as rapporteur for the first reading of the press 751, and I am opening a general debate. I don't have an application for that. I see the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u8	Thank you for the floor. I guess I'm not the only one feeling deja vu. I think we're going back to the debate, so I just want to remind you how it was. My colleague and I on the Committee on Budgets were the only ones who initially did not vote in favour of Mr Šincl's proposal. I just have a different opinion. I think the proposed solution is wrong. And I would just like to quote from the petitioner's explanatory report, which says why the proposal is actually being proposed: "to help solve the long-term systemic problem in the life insurance sector, which is mainly due to the current market generated by the amount of remuneration..." That means the problem arose in the market. It's not black and white. There are at least three groups on the market: clients - and two other groups, if I say it simply, insurance companies and all other types of intermediaries, I will call them brokers for simplicity. And both of these groups say, we work for those clients. And support our position, because if you support our position, you take better care of your clients. I don't know if I can say my skepticism about the fact that by any draft law, you're going to prevent some of our fellow citizens from signing disadvantageous contracts. Unfortunately, this is happening today and daily that many sign contracts that they should not sign. But this is a question of financial literacy, experience, perhaps family consultation or between friends or coworkers. It's very hard to get rid of by law. And if we imagine, and the rapporteur was talking about going through some kind of text, the market would find its way somewhere else. Because I've been through a series of meetings with both insurance representatives and brokers' representatives, they actually agree that they have voluntarily established their business relationship. And now one of those groups wants us to deal with it by law. I said six months ago, or when it was, on the budget committee that I didn't think it was happy, and I didn't change my mind. And it is a good thing that the rapporteur didn't change his mind, either, because he was already saying, "I am convinced that we should regulate this by law" and has put forward several types and several types of solutions. But let's see if this proposal has any logic. Why five years? Why not four? Why six? And how do you prevent someone from actually signing a contract that is disadvantageous to him? I really don't think that repeating the debate... And I tend especially to keep the debate calm, because whoever remembers the atmosphere of some of the negotiations on the original bill will certainly confirm our words that it was not completely calm and factual. But if we put our political views and our beliefs in a matter of fact and calm, I am not afraid of the debate, and I think we will come to some conclusion. Personally, I find it best not to accept this law. Leaving it to the market that, as it says in the explanatory report, generated this condition, and he'll be able to deal with it somehow. It will generate a different state. After all, in each contractual relationship, each party may terminate the contractual relationship sooner or later. All that matters is whether I want to continue this business relationship or not. So, in order to save ourselves time, if possible, and save us a repeat of the debate, because I don't think we're bringing anything new into it, those opinions are fairly polarized here. I think those who were against regulation are still against regulation, and those who were in favour of regulation are also in favour of regulation. The only difference is, and it is political, that it was originally Mr Šincl's amendment, a government Member, but only one Member, while today he succeeded, I do not know how that de facto Šinclův's proposal is part of the government proposal. I'd like to appreciate his political skill. Not everyone will be able to transform their individual amendment into a government proposal as a whole. We have not changed our mind, so in accordance with our opinion last autumn, I propose rejecting this proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u9	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr Milan Urban now prepares for a factual remark by Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I would like to comment on the vote, not on the context of this law, but on the vote that took place in connection with the Government's proposal for the Lottery Act, in agreement with the Vice-President who allowed me to do so in the context of this debate. I would like to comment on the vote that was to be cancelled by the intention that is still in force, that the casinos should not be at the church and at the school. And that's my conviction to make it true. Unfortunately, I have discovered with horror that I have a yes in the crack of this vote, which is that I should, contrary to my fundamental conviction, be involved in the fact that this should be abolished. I am therefore saying that this is not my intention, and I strongly object to this, and I therefore ask that the minutes of this 66th vote in connection with this government proposal for the Lottery Act at the 44th meeting on April 13 at 10.56 am be amended so that I do not agree with this intention! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u11	I thank Mr Urban. I'm sure it'll be listed in the log. Before I give my word to Jiří Dolejš, I will state my apologies to my colleague Benešík from 14.30 to 15.15. A fact note by Jiří Dolejš, then a factual comment by another. [[Member of Stanjura reporting]] Mr. Jiří Dolejš, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u12	Thank you for the floor. It may be better, because my colleague Stanjura will at least be able to respond to me, because my comment was inspired by his exposé, when he here so melodramatically portrayed how our political spectrum is broken down into those who love the market and those who do not trust him. I don't think that's how the assignment works. Maybe in some religious cult where they believe in a clean market and a clean market. But in fact, the market is always a little bit regulated, and the debate is whether it's good or bad. And we've had a long time to do that. After all, the bill was similar here in the last parliamentary term. And the fact that our coalition friends or enemies have agreed on a minimalist version reflects only their debate, and we will undoubtedly have the opportunity to repeat it at second reading. So I don't see why not, because the demand for a solution to this problem is objectively here. When I quote what is in the explanatory memorandum, it is claimed that the use of self-regulation measures, i.e. the functioning of the insurance market, can be regarded as completely inadequate. In short, there are two sides to the market. Supply and demand. And if they're not in a balanced relationship, it doesn't work very well. And we can say a hundred times that the market is like water, and it always finds its way. But when the flood breaks out, it has to be faced in some way - effective, of course. And I look forward to the fact that not only the minimalist coalition agreement, but the material solution that will work, can come out of this proposal, and then it will show up. But why pull down pants when the ford is still far away. I think the proposal would go into the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u13	I thank Jiří Dolejš for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u14	I think I will disappoint Mr Dolejš, I will not respond to him because he was talking about something other than me. I didn't say anything he was protesting. I would just like to clarify my honourable colleague Mr Urban's speech. I understand that when a Member comes even after that point has been completed, and he says: I do not demand, I do not object, I do not ask for a re-vote, I would like to have on the screen record that I voted no and I have a yes in high school. I totally understand that. It's perfectly common. However, I cannot imagine that the minutes of the vote will be changed on the basis of the deputies of the Member. That, in my opinion, is not possible, and I just wanted to verify that at the management meeting. I have no objection to having it on the screen, of course, to Mr Urban's speech, which had a different outcome than what he voted for, that is perfectly fine. But in my opinion, it is not really possible to change the minutes of the vote just by a Member coming in and saying, 'It is wrong there, change the outcome.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u15	In any case, this statement is part of the tapestry and, of course, the will of the Member, expressed in words, is certainly worth more to the public at the moment than the registration itself. But now Mr Votava is with a point of fact and then the rapporteur with a priority right. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I may not speak to the point we are discussing right now, but what my colleague Urban has said here. There seems to be total disinformation, misinterpretation of how this amendment was adopted. Perhaps it would be better for Mr Vilímec to explain it, even if he is an opposition member. The point was not to allow them to be built or to be casinos at schools, kindergartens, hospitals, churches, and I don't know everything. I fundamentally disagree, and I believe that most of this House does not agree! The purpose of the amendment was for it to be within the authority to decide on the council. So that the council as a sovereign and responsible people can decide according to local conditions, because they best know local conditions, if there is 50 meters power, little, 150 meters power, little etc. So I wouldn't question the decision-making power of the municipalities at this point. It is also a requirement for cities and municipalities to do so. Often, as was originally the case, it was abused for a certain competitive struggle and it was only to the detriment of the municipalities. The village will decide where it wants to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u17	Thank you. We're a little off topic, we're gonna keep going. Now the rapporteur in the debate opened to the press 751. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to respond to my previous speakers and ask, if possible, to address such an important amendment to the Insurance Intermediaries Act, which has aroused so much emotion in the past, and how many people and Members have been interested in this press. Today, it seems that almost nobody cares about the press and uses this space for some sort of press solution that has already been passed here and been voted on long ago. It's really weird. I appreciate the opinion of my colleague from the right-wing section of the spectrum, the chairman of the ODS Club. And I even appreciate his opposite opinion than I do. I just wanted to point out in my intelligence report that I am actually calling for expert discussions to be opened on the subject. So that we may have a clear conscience in the vote of the so-called "clear conscience" so that we all know, especially in the Committee on Budgets, and those who will then show the different clubs a clear conscience in that they show correctly so that they do not have to question the result and say that they meant it more than they thought, and so on and so forth. I just want to repeat that the main purpose of my original endeavor, which has come to some other form until today... I said in the explanatory memorandum that this proposal was not identical. He only looks alike, he's like a slightly different sister. Another sister of my original proposal. With the fact that my attempt, the original proposal, the original daughter, the sister, or whatever I would call it, was to limit the part of the commission to insurance intermediaries, and to put it in the hands of those insured, that's for the clients. And I am sorry at this point that my colleague Stanjura from the right-wing section of the spectrum, the chairman of the ODS Club, has a different opinion. That he doesn't want those swelled commissions that run away from insurance companies towards intermediaries, which make about 10 billion a year. Kroner, at least a little lower, in my original proposal, maybe four billion. CZK, and they attributed themselves to ordinary people who may, in some cases, in ignorance, sign disadvantageous insurance policies for them. I only wanted to propose this so-called regulation law because I was inspired by the Act on supplementary pension insurance, where it already exists today, where the Chamber of Deputies already approved this regulation and where it is specifically provided for. I don't know if you have any idea how much that broker has to pay for a pension fund. It's in the order of a hundred crowns. And if you have any idea how much commission he has? I don't envy them, but the point is that the commission that makes, for example, a thousand crowns a month in life insurance is in order, that's 200 times, that's the order of CZK 24,000 reward for the particular intermediary. But it's mainly paid for by the insured person's sales. Which doesn't seem entirely fair to me. I just wanted to draw attention to it so it could be regulated a little bit. I was gonna give them at least 150 percent. But that's just a memory of history. I believe that we will devote this to professional discussion, calmly, on the Committee on Budgets, I see there colleagues from the Committee on Budgets who, perhaps, will contribute to this, and we will come to some common, perhaps this proposal. I don't know, but my opinion is pretty clear from last time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u19	Thank you, Mr Šincl. Now, Mr Vilímec, then Mr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u20	Mr Vice-President, I am just going to go back to the debate on the previous point and ask you for a little tolerance that I am not quite speaking on this point. I would like to clarify what was approved under the Gambling Act in that amendment that I tabled on the Committee on Budgets and here in the House. We have approved what the President of the Budget Committee has more or less declared, which means that the municipality will decide in the form of a generally binding decree, where individual games or technical and other games will be included. I even have to remind you that there is still a ban on gambling and other games not being in schools or in their immediate vicinity. This means that the paragraph concerns only four things: prohibition in the case of bus stations, train stations, sports and cultural facilities. However, in the form of a generally binding decree, the municipality decides whether or not individual gambling establishments can be located nearby or in such facilities. I think it is appropriate that the municipalities that are guarantors of public order can decide. I'm sure they'll make the decisions responsibly. I believe that the proposal we have approved is correct and is based on the comments and demands of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. This means that what has appeared somewhere does not apply that on the basis of this proposal there will be games around schools or churches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u21	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr Petr Kudela, now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I did not vote in favour of Mr Šincl's amendment at the last hearing of this law for one simple reason. I met with the representative of one of our biggest insurance companies and I wanted to discuss the amendment with him. From the debate, I decided that insurance companies don't really care what we approve and how we limit this market. The problem is much deeper. [[15.30 hours]] So I welcome the reopening of this bill, this proposal, and I believe that we will manage to regulate this area in some way, because it is a matter that the House itself assists here by luring people into this life insurance system. The forest is betting on 70 years, when it's all planted, then there's no room for new trees, only assuming there's a tree falling. But here are the landlords who would like to cut down the forest for five years and plant it again. But they're the only ones who benefit from it for the brokerage commission. This is a bad situation, and I believe we can straighten it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-012-049.u23	I thank Mr Kudel. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word - Minister? It's not like that. The rapporteur? He doesn't want to. We have a motion to dismiss. Even before we continue to deal with any decision on the commandments of the committees, we must decide on this proposal. I'm gonna put you all on hold. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion to reject the bill on insurance intermediaries in the vote order number 106, which I have just launched, and I ask who is in favour of the rejection. Who's against rejection? Thank you. In voting order number 106, 133 Members registered, for 31, against 86. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will proceed to the 107 order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 107 of 138 Members present for 125, this was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a motion for another committee to order this press? It's not like that. I ask the rapporteur to follow me as to whether there has been a deadline for shortening or extending in the debate. No, the deadline is therefore maintained under the Rules of Procedure Act for 60 days. We have therefore decided that the press 751 has been ordered to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue with the approved agenda item
