ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On behalf of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, she convened this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jaroslava Jermanová, at the request of 44 Members. The invitation was sent to you on Tuesday, March 15th of this year. I beg you all to sign up with ID cards. In case you have a spare card to give me her number. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Jiří Dolejš and Members of Jaroslav Klaška. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposed verifiers. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 1, to which 128 are registered, for 126, against no one. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. The apologies for today's meeting are the same as they were for the 42nd meeting. Now let me read you some additional apologies. From today's meeting at 4:00 p.m. for work reasons, Mrs Marie Benešová apologises. As of today's meeting from 15.30 for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská apologizes. From today's meeting between 18 and 21 o'clock, for reasons of work, Mr Heger apologizes. Mr Kořenek apologizes from 15.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Grebeníček has been apologizing since 15.30 for work reasons. Mrs Golasowská apologizes for today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the meeting without giving any reason. That was an apology. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 43rd meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose a change or addition to the program. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Before we vote on the proposal for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I have applications with priority rights in the following order: First Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, second Member Petr Fiala and third Member Miroslav Kalousek. With an objection, please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u2	[[It's a malfunctioning microphone. I'm sorry.]] Never mind, maybe it's not the last time today. Good afternoon. I would like to object to the President's procedure, which has been announced since this morning, because it is quite normal and polite that if someone convenes a meeting and proposes a programme, the proposers of this meeting will first present you with the reasons why we are calling such a meeting, they will try to convince you to support the draft programme. I mean, we're not even at the YES or the Agrofert General Meeting. We should follow the practice. The representatives of the plaintiffs of this meeting should be given the floor first. I received a request from Minister Babiš in paper form. No offense. He wants to speak before the start of the debate, that is a perfectly legitimate request, but logically only after the proponents of today's meeting and today's agenda. So, Madam Vice-President, I ask you to proceed precisely in that order, first of all, to give the plaintiffs the floor. As you know, they signed the request for this meeting - not only did they sign the application, I'm not talking about the document now, you said 44 signatures, I think 45. But there's no point fighting over that one, because we need at least 40. But we signed the application with our colleague František Laudát for two MPs - ODS and TOP 09. And I think that the first to speak should be the representatives of these parties who have duly applied not to the debate, not to the draft agenda, but to the proponents of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u3	I will, of course, vote on your objection. I just want to point out that this isn't the first time we've done this. In the same way, Vice-President Filip acted in his proceedings in the 15th meeting on EU sanctions against Russia. You can read the log. The President of the House of Hamáček also acted in the same way in the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the topic of tolls. So I think I'll take a vote on your objection. Then there are other objections. We'll deal with everyone gradually. If I have seen correctly, Mr Černoch is in favour, then Mr Kalousek. So at this point, I will vote on the objection raised by Mr Stanjura. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 2, to which 157 are registered, for 70, against 46. Objection has been denied. Now, please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. [[He doesn't accept a challenge from the bench.]] Are you withdrawing your objection? You volunteered with an objection. Okay, you're pulling. I ask Mr Kalousek to make his objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u4	Allow me, too, to raise my objection to the President's procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, it has always been, and if God gives, then perhaps it will be customary when the flood and the wind of war blow over, that whoever called the meeting, whoever presents the problem, will also justify it. Consider that whenever we discuss government proposals, the petitioner will first come forward and introduce you to why he is actually presenting the proposal to you. Please take the view that whenever you have a parliamentary proposal here, the representative of the petitioners from among the Members will come forward and first inform you of why he is submitting the proposal. We are gathered for an extraordinary meeting, which has been convened by the Members of the TOP 09, ODS and Dawn Clubs, and at least one should begin by explaining to you why they are presenting the proposal at all. Why should someone else come out at once and start screaming at anything without knowing why the petitioner is presenting the proposal to you? There's absolutely no point in that. I want to find a reasonable compromise because I don't find this argument worthy of the Chamber of Deputies. The dignified compromise is that the organizers of this meeting and the promoters of this subject - when the two club presidents talk, I will continue. [[Member of the Glass at Mr Faltynek's bench]] Thank you. That the conveners of this meeting and the promoters of this subject are three parliamentary clubs - TOP 09, ODS and Dawn. The three of us agreed to work in order that the first person to appear as a petitioner would be the chairman of the ODS, Professor Petr Fiala. You're pushing here for some reason that Minister Babiš should be the first to speak without even knowing what to do. Because the petitioner still hasn't told you what topic he called the emergency meeting on. [[talking amused]] [[15.40 hours]] So I find it extremely fair to propose the following compromise to you. We do not insist on performing, so it should normally be, after the Fiala, Kalousek, Černoch series, then approve or disapprove of the program, then open the discussion and then maybe we can hear something from Minister Babiš. I suggest you speak for all three clubs that have called an emergency meeting, President ODS Petr Fiala, and my colleague Černoch and I will be able to make peace and accept that Minister Babiš will speak after him and present his entrée. And then it'll continue somehow. This seems fair to me. But if the petitioner wasn't the first to come forward, you'd be making fun of us already. You're not gonna do that, are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u5	Ambassador, I'm going to vote on the objection. I just want to point out that I am proceeding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no debate on the extraordinary meeting programme, so only priority rights may be given, and I am granting them in the order in which they are signed up. So I'm just following the rules of procedure. However, I will, of course, leave your objection to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting the objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 3, to which 163 are registered, for 78, against 42. The motion was denied. Before I invite Mr Laudát to the microphone, allow me to welcome to the gallery the delegation of the Parliamentary Defence and Security Committee of Georgia, led by its President, Mr Iraklim Sesiashvili. [[The whole hall rises and claps in honor of the Georgian delegation.]] Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Laudát is now registered... We're not in the debate. [[A Member of Kalousek objects and asks for a word.]] Priority rights are given if you object, so if Mr Laudát resigns... [[Member Kalousek requests a procedural proposal.]] There cannot be a procedural proposal because we are not in the debate. So... Objection. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u6	I, of course, respect, Madam President, as the Chamber of Deputies has decided, although I am not entirely sure that all colleagues really knew what they were voting on and with what consequences for the next process in this House, but that is their responsibility. However, I believe that the way you were driving this point, you were completely biased. That you have totally taken the lead on this point, which, according to the rules in the Bureau of the Chamber of Deputies, should have fallen to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies of Gazdík, because President Hamáček is not here, and you have abused the majority you have as a coalition, that you have eliminated Mr Gazdík from the vote, and you yourself have taken the lead in this meeting so that you can manipulate it in the way that you have just shown us. While I'm sure I know how this is going to work out, for the sake of your conscience, because you didn't behave fairly, I suggest your appeal to the meeting, Madam Vice-President, and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u7	I will put it to the vote, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the absence of the President of the House, I am the first Vice-President, therefore the leadership, the agreement, the order, is in agreement with the Vice-President. I'll have your objection voted, or a motion for my appeal from the meeting's proceedings. I don't have a problem with that. So I'm opening the vote on this... [[Member Kalousek reporting.]] No, Prime Minister! Excuse me, I'm gonna... [[Member Kalousek from the diaper: This is my proposal, I have the right to withdraw it.]] If you want to withdraw the amendment proposal, then do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u8	Please forgive me. I really didn't realize you were the first one. I'm downloading my proposal. . [[Fun and applause from Members of the ODS and TOP 09]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u9	Mr. Stanjura with an objection. Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u10	Don't worry, I won't suggest the same thing, it wouldn't be dignified. We'd be like you, and we sure as hell wouldn't want that. I just want to say to my colleagues that I really don't understand you. What are you afraid of? Our chairman will speak for three clubs. The speech won't be longer than 20 minutes, there won't be any stalling tactics, we don't give the media reports that we've written down 30, 40 or how many pages. And the Vice-President is still swaying the Rules of Procedure. I don't think he's right. But she's behind the key, isn't she? And he's still the first Vice-President, so, of course, their voice is stronger and not equal. But even if she's right, there's something called decent and normal behavior. And you're ready to break it because you've decided your boss will speak first. If Andrej Babiš had called a meeting in an initiative to the Chapi's nest after it was in the media, and he said, "I suggest to the House, I will explain it to you on an extraordinary point," he would logically stand here first, because he would be the caller of the meeting, and we could respond. We have a lot of questions, and apparently the Minister of Finance is ready to answer those questions before they come forward. I admire his clarity. I really do. And I don't want to argue with who was supposed to or shouldn't be running the meeting, but look at the party shirts that decide how we're going to proceed today. Let us consider it purely a coincidence that the service has landed at such a difficult time at the first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. It's okay. But I suggest that we proceed normally humanly politely, so that in the three clubs that have called this meeting, only one and not all three should appear, and we tell you that it will not be longer than 20 minutes. By the way, let's just think about it for 17 minutes - you could've already had the ODS President's speech if you'd behaved normally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u11	Do you object to the President's procedure? [[Yes.]] Yes, I'll take the vote on the objection. Then with the objection, Mr Kalousek. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 4, to which 166 are registered, for 67, against 48. The motion was denied. Objection from Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u12	All dobrý, Madam President. I beg you to take my act as an objection, and if you so put it to the vote against her. Once again, the TOP 09, ODS and Dawn MPs have called an emergency meeting for some specific case where the Chamber of Deputies is to turn to the government to give its opinion. In your opinion, Madam President, and according to the government majority, those petitioners do not have a chance to state - although we have offered that it will be the only one, Professor Fiala - those petitioners do not have a chance to state why they actually called the meeting. So allow me to do this as part of the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u13	No, Mr. Ambassador. At the moment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u14	No, that's an objection, Madam President. Madam President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u15	Then raise the objection. The only objection you can give is an objection - Please let me finish! [[Yes, I'm hovering -]] Objection against the President's procedure. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u16	I object to the President's procedure. And don't you dare shut me up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u17	Mr. Ambassador, I do not think threatening the House of Deputies belongs, and at this moment you are taking advantage of your right to object. And I insist!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u18	I object to the President's procedure in the following words, Madam President. [[He speaks slowly and forcefully.]] We'll vote on the agenda for the meeting, the Capi nest case. The petitioners are not allowed to state the reasons why this meeting has been convened so that the Chamber of Deputies can take a stand on a person who is suspected of being a fraud, a liar and a tunneller. Your proceeding, Madam President, is that the suspected fraud, the liar and the tunnelling will be the first to speak out, which I object to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u19	I will vote on your objection. I challenge you all not to insult each other. I think it has nothing to do with the Chamber of Deputies. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I am opening the vote on the opposition to the President's procedure. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 5, to which 165 are registered, for 67, against 53. The motion was denied. Mr. Laudát's objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. In order to be quite clear why this matter arose here, the top representatives of the ANO movement knew exactly that they were not doing some standard procedure, and that will be my objection. Therefore, Mr Babiš, . Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, sent and delivered a letter to the President of the House of Hamáček on 21 March in which he writes: Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to ask for the floor before opening the debate on the item of the first draft agenda of the 43rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which will begin on Wednesday 23 March 2016 at 15.30. Thank you, and I'm happy to sign. Since and which one of you, when it comes to this, will still have to confirm the takeover for sure. 21. 3. in 16.20 is confirmed by the offices of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That means you know what you did. In this situation, Madam First Vice-President of the House, it is unclear to me - note that you are voting for a huge precedent if you allow this to happen, because it is not clear to me at which point, and therefore I am giving it and calling for you to vote at the first opportunity that I demand that we act today after 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd hour until the end of the meeting. Not only did they act, but they acted and voted. Because we have a motion for a resolution. As far as your behavior is concerned, I don't know, and it is very unfortunate and it has not been a habit in the past that those who have run the House have resorted to practices that you are unfortunately resorting to. And you made it quite clear to me from those documents you enabled me to obtain on Monday 21st March on the first spring day, perhaps even the storks arrived that at 16.20 you had confirmed that this letter had been delivered and that the application had been completed accordingly. However, I still believe that you are doing the wrong thing as it is formulated. I do not wish to raise a procedural objection to the vote on your appeal, but if you want to spread morality and justice and fair conduct, you would withdraw from the proceedings of this meeting on your own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u21	Mr. Ambassador, you know I can't react from this place, and I don't want to react to that either. I will have your objection to the President's procedure voted on. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 6, to which 167 are registered, for 71, against 48, the proposal has been rejected. Has Mr Stanjura filed for objection? He's downloading. Did you withdraw? Okay. At this point, we will continue with the priority rights, and I am asking for a microphone from the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u22	Hello, everyone. Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will be speaking to you today in particular. I hope the citizens, our voters, are looking at our House today. I am so glad to be able to perform here and explain all the circumstances of this unprecedented massive manipulative carefully planned and timed campaign around the Capi's hnízdo, which has one goal - to end up in government and to end up in Czech politics at all. In these two years, even the traditional political nomenclature here has understood that I am not lying, stealing, holding hands with no one, and no one can corrupt me. [[screaming and laughing on the right.]] Nor the gambling lobby, Mr Kalousek, through Madam President. Let's see how you vote. It's coming. That's why we now have this pseudocase of the Capi Nest, which suddenly bothers you so much. Eight years have passed. And in this respect, I would like to thank all the voters, the citizens. I received so many emails and text messages just after the October 2013 elections when we succeeded. And I really appreciate it, and thank you. I also come from the fact that many people realize how some media are manipulated in our country. How they take information out of context, how they speculate and lie. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] And I'd like to talk about all this here today. As soon as I joined politics, the campaigns began. First, StB began before the parliamentary elections. I can only say once again that I have never cooperated, I have not signed anything and that I have succeeded in suing the Bratislava court. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] And that StB questioned me about Syrian phosphate. Yes. Because of the Syrian phosphates because Syria didn't have the money for the tanks that Mr. KalousekHálův family supplied there, a friend of Asadův's family, who murdered tens of thousands of people. [[Fun.]] The next campaign was biofuels. Support for biofuels was introduced in the Czech Republic on the basis of the commitment of the Czech Republic, which is based on the 2003 European Union Directive. [[16.00 hours]] Like it or not, it's binding. And I didn't invent biofuels. They were invented by the EU based on Goldman Sachs. At Goldman Sachs, they said that a barrel of oil would cost $200. Well, they didn't miss. I'm sure you all remember the lying campaign from last summer. Lie about me getting $5 billion on biofuels and other nonsense like that. That's a dirty lie that Kalousek repeated a hundred times. It's a lie! Because biofuels producers don't get subsidies. That's what consumers get. That means anyone who tanks at a gas station. I would like to remind you that the first multiannual programme for promoting the use of biofuels in transport has been approved on 25 February 2008. And by the right-wing government of the lords of Topolánek and Kalousek. Our coalition government only approved an extension of this programme for the years 2015 to 2020. With a positive impact on the state budget, when the cost of biofuels in 2014 was CZK 2.2 billion and fell to CZK 2 billion in 2015, and in 2016, the change in legislation means the actual termination of the sale of supported biofuels and the cost of the state is CZK tens of thousands. So no more high-content biofuels are being sold today, thanks to the low price of oil. Conflict of interest. Another of the constructed campaigns is a campaign of my conflict of interest. Yes, I have a conflict of interest. But I'm not using him. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] I didn't want to go into politics. [[Again, applause and laughter from the right.]] You begat me. [[Once again, laughter from Members of the ODS and TOP 09.]] ODS and corrupt Kalousek, symbol of corruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u23	Minister, please don't let us slip into personal attacks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u24	I'm sorry. My political activities only have a negative impact on my companies. Next year, he'll celebrate the church sausages for a hundred years. And 99 years later, they haven't found a needle in their products and twice in the last month. That's interesting. I guess it's not... [[Laughing again in the benches.]] According to my companies, let's hope that laughter lasts till the end. My company's share of trade with the state is negligible 1.7 percent. I am acting strictly under the law of conflict of interest when voting in the Government and in the House and in the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, I am constantly attacked for my companies competing mainly with the Forests of the Czech Republic, whose tender procedures according to EconLab's ranking at Charles University are evaluated as the most transparent selection procedures in this country. Last time, Minister Jurečka bragged about it, and I think he's right. The selection procedures for the state enterprise Čepro were evaluated in the same way. The company Uniles, which is part of Agrofert Group, performs mining work for state forests and processes wood. In 2014, this company obtained only eight contracts out of a total of 33 contracts of the Forests of the Czech Republic. A year later, the Forests of the Czech Republic announced two tender procedures. In the first, Uniles won 12 out of 57 contracts and failed not once in the second tender for ten contracts. Praise God. Only dozens of companies compete for prizes and competitions. So, overall, in the Forests of the Czech Republic in 2014 and 2015, Uniles acquired 25 percent less forest areas than it did before my entry into politics, and it also has a smaller volume of sales from mining. Let's get subsidies. Please, who invented subsidies? It's the EU, isn't it? [[A voice from the diaper.]] No, not Kalousek, the European Union. [[Applause from Members of the TOP 09 and ODS.]] Kalousek worked by stopping them, but I'll get to that. But I don't have a problem with it, let them cancel all subsidies. We have signed an agreement with the EU and 540 billion have flowed into this country. So the ODS started saying that I'm getting more subsidies than I'm paying in taxes. Assigned to remove social security contributions and health insurance, as well as under the health insurance scheme. And, as is known, the main source of money for pension payments, seniors, is the social security contributions. And health insurance is a source of money for the salaries of doctors, nurses and medical staff. They are therefore the reception of public budgets. The ODS knows this, but they lie purposefully. In the last nine years, my firms have put a sum of 19,66 billion into public budgets. CZK and received 1,89 on subsidies from the Czech state budget for the same period of nine years. So less than a tenth! Then don't lie to me that my firm is getting more subsidies than it's doing. In the EU budget, my companies have made 15.88 billion in the last nine years. crowns and received 4.28 billion. Crowns. Overall, in nine years, my companies have taken 35.54 billion into European budgets, including the Czech budget. CZK and received 6.17. Which is almost six times less. But most importantly. All of my companies receive subsidies according to the same rules as any other Czech companies in chemistry, food, timber or other fields in which my companies operate. The same is true in agricultural subsidies. My companies receive subsidies per hectare the same amount as any Czech farmer. In 2015 it was about CZK 5,700 per hectare and they still receive a subsidy for each cow, milk, meat, chicken and pig, so it can be calculated exactly. It is controlled by the EU. My companies are not preferred, they play by the same rules. On the contrary, they receive 5% less than businesses up to 1,100 hectares. That's right. When the ODS campaign on conflict of interest ended, the campaign against me began to propose a TOP 09 for a change, according to which companies, in which the Czech government minister owns more than 10 percent, could not participate in public procurement. At the same time, a proposal was prepared that the Minister of the Czech Government could not own more than 40 percent of the company. You can see that TOP 09 and ODS have no agenda other than attacks and campaigns against me and our ANO movement. Moreover, this is an unprecedented attack on all entrepreneurs and businessmen in the Czech Republic who would like to participate in public affairs and devote time and energy to working for our country. The attack by professional politicians who had never done transparently did not employ people and were not responsible for them. The result can only be that people who have worked hard all their lives to realize the meaning of their lives and give their work to their children are prevented from participating in public life for the benefit of all citizens. But everywhere in the world, the trend is the opposite. We have Donald Trump in America. In America, the most successful mayor of New York was businessman Michael Bloomberg, whom I met in France last year, and he even has news television. In France, Emmanuel Macron is the most popular politician today. And even in other European states, more and more people appear in politics, who have already done something in life, and who can and can take advantage of their experience and knowledge at work for the state. Of course, such people are a threat to those who have done nothing in their lives, and only engage in politics. I am surprised that even though our coalition government is one of the most successful governments in our country's history after two years of governance, my coalition partners are working with the opposition to the adoption of anti-Babish laws, which I sincerely regret. I understand that, for many politicians, Agrofert is a thorn in the eye, something they can't even understand, and so they try to either question it or destroy it. However, I must say in this respect that while other large companies have their headquarters in tax havens, Agrofert is based in the Czech Republic and also pays taxes here. In 23 years I have built a company that today has approximately 35 thousand employees and 205 companies in our country and abroad. In 2015, it has an unconsolidated turnover of 231.5 billion. Crowns. And what's important is that the entire holding has a transparent structure and has no offshore companies. [[16.10 hours]] It also receives dividends from its foreign subsidiaries as one of the few Czech companies. From 2006 to 2015, i.e. in ten years, Agrofert received from abroad when the money came to the Czech Republic, 2.9 billion. koruna dividends. That's the money our companies made abroad, and we took the money to the Czech Republic. To illustrate, a total of 83 billion came to the Czech Republic during the same period. CZK dividends, this means that Agrofert is involved in this issue by more than a quarter, 26,6 %. The companies of Agrofert, unlike others, do not deliver money out like other corporations, but instead bring it back from abroad to the Czech Republic, invest here and employ other citizens. And at a time when in the opposite direction, i.e. from the Czech Republic to abroad, it flowed at the same time, that means ten years, 1 927 billion. koruna - 1 927 billion. The crown! But it's not illegal. We wanted foreign firms to invest here, and if they pay corporate tax, of course they have the right to take the dividend. And if we were to change something about it, we would, of course, put further investments by foreign companies in the Czech Republic at risk. Another thing, of course, is that the Financial Administration is focusing on the tax base that these companies are exhibiting so that they do not actually reduce artificially taxes in our country. It would be interesting to know how much of this amount, of those 1 927 billion. After ten years, it ended up in accounts of offshore companies, of which approximately 15 thousand belong to Czech shareholders. Such a property structure already expresses a certain relationship between these people and our country. By the way, it would be interesting to know how many of these offshore companies are owned by former or existing politicians and how many of them are so-called solar barons. I would like to say a few more sentences, since my business is being questioned, to my foundation, which is mainly devoted to supporting single parents in need. I'm also sending my ministry salary to the singles program. The Foundation continues to help handicapped children, seniors, students from socially weak families and then also voluntary professional firefighters. In the project Agrofert Sports Centres, more than 1,300 children are able to choose from a wide range of sports. Since its foundation, the Foundation has distributed CZK 88 million and increased its budget for 2016 from the original 56 million. CZK 106 million. CZK, which will be divided between non-profit organisations and individual applicants. The increase in the budget was my response to the call of journalist Kubátová from the Young Front today to return the subsidy. But I didn't get any funding. The subsidy was granted under the rules, which is why I have nothing to return. No one's been harmed. However, to show people that I really don't care about money, because as I know, even though I hate to say it, I'm a billionaire, I've increased the Foundation's budget by just $50 million. [[signs of cheer and weak applause from the right]] Now I'd like to say a few words about my work in our coalition government. In the coalition government, which I think is very successful. I wanted to, and I hope that Mr. Martin Jaroš is looking at me, who rightly criticized Facebook that what is actually going on in Bohemia, why are we talking about the Capi nest here? I would love for him to hear this and come and get involved in politics because he has no idea how it works in politics, he has no idea how it works in ministries. You have to try it out. I have no doubt that many from the heart would like the pseudocussion of the Chap Nest to overshadow the results of my work at the Ministry of Finance. It would take a few hours to read all the results of the resort, so let me briefly remind you of the most important ones. Since my entry into office, I have twice reduced the state budget deficit from 112 billion in 2014. to 77.8 billion, in 2015 planned 100 billion. 62.8 billion. with a view to having a balanced budget over the medium term. It is very important to say that we are not improving the results of the state's management at the cost of raising taxes and choking the economy, and we are doing so in record investment, which reached 112 billion in 2014. and in 2015, they reached an absolute historical amount of 176 billion. with an annual increase of almost 65 billion. Therefore, if we did not increase investment, we would even have a balanced budget in 2015. It must also be said that our coalition government reduces taxes, whether in the form of lower VAT, by higher tax advantages on children, by introducing kindergarten fees, or by returning a discount for working pensioners. Last year it was 22.5 billion. We're improving the state's treasury, raising public service salaries, police officers, firefighters, teachers, soldiers, and others. We're raising the pensions that Kalousek froze. Thanks to this work, the Czech Republic can still rank as the least indebted countries of the European Union, and we want to keep this trend - and we are succeeding for the second year in a row. So while in 2013, the government debt was 41.3% of GDP, in 2014, only 39 percent of GDP, and last year it fell to 37.3% of GDP. For comparison, Greece has 176 or Italy has 136 or France 100. We are one of the least indebted countries of the European Union, and that is great. Since I joined the Ministry, the debt has been wiped off by 4 percentage points. This represents an absolute decrease of 10.4 billion. Crowns. And who indebted us the most in the past? Well, Mr. Best Finance Minister Kalousek! 670 billion. He owed us a debt when he was a minister. It's counted on the day. Yes, I still stand by the fact that the Treasury can be run as a company. Thanks to this, we have also saved nearly 8 billion on government debt interest expenditure since 2014. and we made a total of 920 miles in the state budget yesterday on financial operations. Crowns. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance began publishing detailed data about its management in the form of open data in January 2015, in addition in the transparent and user-friendly application Supervisor, which by the way was awarded by the Otakara Motejla Fund as the best application based on open data at all. We weren't waiting for the contract register to force us to do that. For the first time in the history of this country, we have also mapped all its assets in the form of a map of state property that contains incredible 1.6 miles. items. That's how we found out over 25,000. non-previsionable properties that have been registered to non-existent extinct state institutions. The real estate was registered at 1 906 state entities, of which over 1,300 were non-existent or in liquidation. As Minister, I keep my promises. One of them was that I would not raise taxes and that I would choose them effectively. That is why we have pushed through the tax Cobra, which has saved the state budget more than 4.1 billion. Crowns. We have introduced VAT control reports, enforced an electronic record of sales, which is one of the most important system measures to reconcile the business environment in the modern history of the Czech Republic. As the first finance minister, I advocate modern gambling regulation in the form of the most advanced countries in Western Europe. We have strengthened the staff-long-term weakened control and enforcement agendas of the Financial Administration. Prague has ceased to be a tax haven. This is where she used to check in once every 200 years, folks. We found a lady at Office House in a small room where 1,600 companies were registered. Compared to 2013, we collected 117.7 billion on tax revenues and levies by 2015. More crowns. Again, 117.7 billion. More crowns. You were laughing at me for collecting hundreds of billions, and we're picking them out. We'll be at 200 by the end of 2017. And it's not enough money. If we give them only to pensions, we can add 820 crowns a month to each pensioner. If we put them on the highway, we'll build 400 km of new highways. If we give them to the teachers, we'll increase their paycheck by 12 grand. Unfortunately, neglected and underfunded areas were left so much in the Czech Republic that their correction is gradual and is not a question of one government term. [[16.20 hours]] An extraordinary House meeting is being convened today because of a pseudo-cause that was supposed to take place over eight years, long before I joined politics. And I ask, is this really something that the House should be meeting extraordinarily for? Yesterday we witnessed a terrible tragedy in Brussels. Today we see that European politicians could not cope with migration or integration of migrants, that they lied that the biggest problem today is probably the no-go zones, the original migrants, and they did not want to admit it. They influenced the media not to talk about it. And that's a big problem. And the impotence of some European politicians is terrible. They don't want to admit to themselves... they don't want to, because probably some of these migrants are their constituents. And there's nothing good ahead of us. So I don't remember, and I studied it, I don't know if through Mr... [[♪ Looking back ♪]] Madam President, then. Marek Benda. This is the legend of this House, 24 years sitting here. This is unbelievable! How did you do that? I've been here two years and I have... Twenty-four years you've been here, Mr. Benda. Twenty-four. Unbelievable! [[Repaired from ODS screams: Bendo.]] Benda! But Benda - legend rhymes well. I know, Mrs. Postlerová said I should call Bendo. But I say Benda - a legend. So I'm -- there's always been a meeting of the opposition. Social democracy has called so many meetings, and you've always wasted it while you were in government! Then why did ODS and TOP 09 call an emergency meeting? In 26 years of capitalism building in the Czech Republic, haven't there been more important cases? Why are you calling a meeting for a case that was created on the basis of a series of anonymous announcements to Brussels and the Police of the Czech Republic! The thing that was unleashed by a journalist who has more information from the State Security Council about the Lebanon case than I do. Or its members. [[Report to the O.R.]] Who speculates that an alleged ransom I don't know anything about was the object of the robbery! Who knows who the police will invite to interrogation in the framework of the pseudo-cause of the stork's nest! My family? Does she know? Live file. How does she know, that lady? She's got information from a live file. She probably already knows how long I'm gonna be locked up, they've been writing - 10 years, 15 years. And why would they arrest me if I didn't do anything! I know I'm pissing off a lot of people here. I know it would make you happy. And tell me who's paying for the megacampaign! Today, the storks - I didn't get a shot of them, it was organized by Bursík, or the one - whatever his name is - I'm not gonna say it. [[A coalition scream.]] No, that... son of a bitch and psychopath, but I'm suing him, I'm not saying his name. [[Scream from the right side of the hall: Kalousek]] [[Fun in the hall.]] Ask me, megacampaign, who's paying for it? I'd like to thank whoever's paying for it, on behalf of the Farm the Stork Nest, because if the farm wanted to do that, it'd cost $300 million! So thank you. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] And I'd like to invite all the people. [[He's got his hand on the TV camera.]] Come and see the farm and see how it is. [[The noise in the hall.]] So, Mr Benda, through Madam President, you've been sitting here for 24 years, so I'm asking you what you've been dealing with here from the tunnels of our country's post-November history. I've always said about your ODS founder, Mr. Klaus, from coupon to amnesty: First you let your cronies steal it, and then your founder forgave it with a corrupt amnesty that he forgave. You've been dealing with coupon privatization here, the Harvard Leather Fund. They cost us 100 billion. IPB - The Weigl sat there, but the ODS controlled the IPB. The state banks you had stolen, which you subsequently led to CKA, where you robbed it for the second time. What about light fuel oils? And the Chemapol audition? And a $50 billion Agrobank? And Bohemia for 20? What about the IZIP case, the money that ended up somewhere in Swiss accounts? Why didn't you explain this tunnel to your ODS members? The C.E.D. cost us 236 billion. The IPB had 270 billion bad loans. What about our Presidency of the European Union linked to the ProMoPro case? Mr Kalousek spoke in Brussels about the shame of the Cape čapí. No, you guys have done the biggest embarrassment. You dealt with the ProMoPro case for CZK 180 million, which went into the accounts of companies planted and collected by white horses in cash. And we have also forgotten that in 2012 Brussels, when Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance, stopped all European funds from drawing on us because of corruption. So the biggest embarrassment in Brussels was you. And what did Brusel tell us? Bad control. Brussels factored - 15. 3. 2012 - Prime Minister of the Czech Government Nečas officially confirmed that the Czech Republic is in great difficulty with drawing money from the European Union. At the same time, it confirmed that the Government received a warning letter from the European Commission stating, inter alia, that the main reason for suspending payments from European funds is the functioning of the audit system. Wonder the world! And who was the Minister of Finance? Well the best finance minister for the history of this country, who owed us 670 - Miroslav Kalousek. The suspension of payments from European funds under the operational programme system has sparked a dispute on the political stage as to who is responsible for the introduction of a criticised audit system for drawing EU funds. Nečas and Kalousek claimed that the audit system was behind the Sobots, but the one in the House concluded that it was a lie, that it was a mistake of TOP 09, ODS. Sobotka was right because at the time he was there, the EU did not yet have a methodology to audit funds. So Mr. Nečas lied and Sobotka said it in the House, and he was right. Then they blamed us for unnecessary waste. The commissioners resented the fact that the Czech authorities wasted and too often bought services from external companies, outsourcing - I canceled this, external lawyers - and yet they can provide them with their own resources. Yes, the Ministry - under my command we won an arbitration for 800 million. Our young lawyer! No outsiders. It is thus unnecessary for the Office to have experts to draw subsidies from the EU, but it is still turning to companies that deal with the same thing. Brusel also pointed out a wild personnel policy. Operational programmes that decide on the distribution of eurodotations often alternate managers and this leads to chaos in the preparation of projects. An example was the Ministry of Education and its programme Education for Competitiveness for the Work of the Best Minister of Education, as your founder, Josef Dobeš of Public Affairs, said. So that's how Brussels was. The separate chapter then consists of a large privatization and then the fate of key state-owned enterprises, which have often been tripped, bankrupted and left debts of a total of hundreds of billions and completely devastated and useless assets under an opaque ownership structure. Let's go see the Czech Export Bank now. That's another Topolánkův and Kalouskův's work. And that's the problem, the big problem. We inherited it from you. On Friday, I had Mr. Jurečka, the Minister of Agriculture, and he wanted money for the farmers. But our government budget reserve, thanks to the inheritance you made, if we still have to pay the Czech Export Bank, it's exhausted enough. So we came in January 2014 and the Czech Export Bank was what? This was not effective export support. This was the handing out of loans to related companies Topolánkův and Nečasův' government. These practices only resulted in police intervention directly in the bank. The Anti-Corruption Police took 16 suspicious credit agreements from the Czech Export Bank and the associated state insurance company EGAP in January 2014. Also, the SAO, the National Audit Office, shortly after the audit at the bank in that period, found that CZK 8 billion had gone from the bank's account to the accounts of various projects in Ukraine and Russia, contrary to the bank's internal regulations. And the legacy of the export-credit period, when Mr Kalousek, of course, was the guardian of the register - almost double the bank's lending. [[16.30 hours]] In 2010 there were 43,8 billion new credit agreements, compared to the average of 2008, 2009 was 23. 20 billion crowns of credit in the balance sheet is in default, which means it is unenforceable. 20 billion, folks! And another 20 billion crowns are at risk. The gambling allowed by the previous right-wing governments of the Czech Export Bank has already cost taxpayers CZK 6.7 billion. And from this we have been presented so far, it costs almost 5 billion tax payers to cover the benefits of EGAP insurance funds. Why isn't an extraordinary House meeting called to settle church restitutions? This is Mr Kalousek's big home, when the state will return property worth CZK 75 billion and 59 billion will be paid to the churches for unissued property over 30 years of inflation. The amount may rise to 96 billion, while for 17 years our state will also contribute to spiritual payouts. So, overall, it could cost us 171 billion crowns. I do not deny that church restitution was the right step. But not in a form that was the only one - to pull more money out of citizens' pockets into political parties. And the main question is how this Kalouskův tunnel was realized. A memorial says that Jankovský, then Minister of Regional Development for Nečasův-Kalouskův government, received a specific amount of what the state should return and pay to the churches. Only then can we explain why according to the calculation of the Czech Statistical Office the state appreciated property too expensive in the case of church restitutions, so the price of unissued property is overvalued. According to the internal report of the Statistical Office in 2015, published by the media, the price per square metre of agricultural land should be approximately 14 CZK. And why did the state pay 44 when it was supposed to be 14? 44! And the forest land was supposed to be CZK 10 and the state paid 27! So, to put it simply, it means that by approving the Nečasův Government and initiating the entire church restitution project by Mr Kalousek, it will cost money to pay billions higher than it would have had to, and that will be until 2043. What about an emergency meeting for solar speculators? Total Čech - taxpayers pay roughly CZK 600 billion for support of solar barons, which is a qualified estimate of the Energy Regulatory Office. Plus, five of the 20 largest solar power plants had anonymous shares. Who do you think was their owner? Martin Roman? Or háva from Kalousek? Godfathers? Or even some Members? When the cost of solar power plants started to fall sharply, but not the state-funded price support, it was expected that Mirek Topolánek's government would react somehow. Nothing happened. Consequences - one of the largest tunnels on public funds today. In 2016, the Czech state budget to support renewable resources will issue almost 44 billion, of which the subsidy from the state budget is 22 billion and the rest will be paid by citizens. Privatization Prague Airport. This planned tunnel for 100 billion has declassified Janouškův's wiretap. That was Mr. ODS. Actors: Kalousek, Topolánek, Řebíček, Bém. According to the wiretaps, they were to split a commission from the privatisation of Prague Airport, which was worth 100 billion. And then, of course, Minister Kalousek was a shareholder of the airport. This billion-dollar charade stopped you from falling into government. Luckily. But Kalousek and Řebíček had at least made it to the airport to buy a total overpriced land worth $4 billion that once belonged to the state. Selling ČSA. It's that finance minister Kalousek again. Forty-four percent you sold for CZK 67.5 million. Yes, you can hear right. Do you know what the owner of the Travel Service airline said to Mr Šimáně? That Kalousek and his crew sold this share for the price of half the Boeing 737 engine. Donation scams. I am asking through the President, Mrs Němcová, who has been sitting here for 18 years. You've called an emergency meeting for, like, the biggest grant fraud in the ROP Northwest, where then Chief Petr Kušnierz has been sentenced to five years for asking for bribes? Today, the court sent him to prison for seven years for influencing grant projects worth CZK 1.4 billion. Would you be interested to know who put him in office? It's the ODS. Specifically, the then Chairman of the Regional Council, Jiří Šulc. And Mr. Kušnierz started talking in court about how he was controlled by an octopus led by people connected to the ODS. Did anybody explain that? Isn't it a waste of time to convene an extraordinary House meeting for the pseudocause of the Capi Nest? When there are 107 laws in the House waiting to be discussed! The Act on Proving the Origin of Property. Laws on regulation and higher taxation of gambling. Why is this extraordinary meeting so attentive to me? Mr Schwarzenberg through Madam President, have you ever been grilled here in the past? How did the suspicion of your connection to the Czech underworld stand? That you were doing business with the partner of the murdered godfather Mrázek. How did the House handle your pond renewal subsidies? No way. Even the media went unnoticed. I can remind you. In 2002, you submitted a request for state subsidies to repair your ponds as part of the Renovation of Ponds after the Flood program. For this purpose, you received CZK 2.7 million in September 2003 for the restoration of Kroupovský pond and CZK 1.8 million two months later for the restoration of the pond Ždír. At Kroupovský pond, the date for the housewarming was exceeded by approximately six months. But the Ministry of Finance has forgiven you the errors in using the subsidies to restore your ponds. It happened during the reign of Mirek Topolánek and, of course, Minister of Finance did Kalousek. And his office didn't find the subsidy faulty. Nobody screamed. By any chance, Mr Schwarzenberg through Madam President, were you in conflict of interest? Do you remember what you said to the media? That you didn't talk to anyone about it? Why is such assurance not enough in my case, but has everyone swallowed it for you? Have you all forgotten that Mr. Schwarzenberg and his companies received over CZK 150 million on state budget subsidies? And why didn't you in the House discuss privatizing the Becherovka Karlovy Vary? Or maybe you're all suffering from memory loss here. Well, let me remind you. The privatization of Karlovy Vary Becherovka was probably decided that the winning company had ownership structure of Karel Schwarzenberg, a friend of financialist Zdeněk Bakala, who brutally influenced the privatization of OKD a few years later and from the company he mined 110 billion crowns. Everything about the privatization of Becherovka took place on Wednesday, September 3, 1997. At the recess of the Chamber of Deputies. At that time, Klausův' government met quickly on Parliament's premises, and by a majority vote, Mr Bakala and Schwarzenberg's offer was preferred. This time, it wasn't Klaus who ran this privatization. For this project, all ministers for the Civil Democratic Alliance have raised their hands. It's funny that Mr. Schwarzenberg was a member of ODA this time. Although most of Klausův' crews, according to the memorials, preferred Stock. However, Mr Schwarzenberg and Mr Bakala have won, despite the fact that their business plan was even marked by the government's inter-ministerial commission as the worst. So why have you never addressed the strange circumstances of this privatisation in the House, which have been proven to have been influenced by a high policy, not by the economic interests of the Czech state? [[Noise in the hall.]] Unlike Mr. Schwarzenberg, I'm not a hypocrite. I'm funding YES with my money. You've been sitting here for six years, saying that ČEZ's money was funded by political parties, but everyone in this hall knows that the creation of the TOP 09 was financed by the money of ČEZ, which was arranged by Kalousek, Topolánek and Roman. [[16.40 hours]] And now I will also turn to Mr President, sorry, Madam President, to Mr Kalousek's highest moral authority. And I'm going to ask him, which of his cases, which are so many that it can't even be named, has the House come together? After all, the entire book of the Foundation Fund against Corruption is written about them. [[He's pointing.]] I'll just read the chapters to refresh your memory. What about the parachutes? How many dead were there? T-72 tank modernization. Staff information system. Selling ten MiG-29 aircraft. Selling hundreds of T-72 tanks to Algeria. Sale of barracks in Republic Square. Kalouskův's commissioning system. The Diag Human case. Airspace protection and Gripena case. It's a toll case. Yes, our government inherited a contract with Kapsch, which was closed so that it had no end. The case of electronic guilt. Gambling case. And once again, the army - the case of the CASA aircraft. Worry about nature or ecological superorder. Luckily, it didn't work out. Mr. Nečas forbids it. Worrying about church and church settlement. Did these real cases bring together an extraordinary House? And has anyone ever been prosecuted for them? For example, the case of Kalousek used a luxury apartment sold by Mr. Háva to Mr. Kašák at a time when Kalousek was only a short time a politician. His ties to his friend and later Deputy Fuksa, the contracts of Brother-in-law Kašák go in 150 miles. At a time when people were connected to you in deciding about these contracts, and later the company was a sponsor of Mr. Kalousek. The case was revealed in 2002 by MF TODAY, fortunately I didn't own it at the time. The famous armorer Háva sold Kalouskův's brother-in-law Lubomír Kašák a luxury apartment in Prague for 6.5 miles. Crowns. Kašák then let Kalousek live there for the rent of 15,000 crowns a month. Through him this apartment was then acquired after Kašákův's death by his sister, wife of Minister Kalousek. Lubomír Kašák was connected to the affairs of Příbramský Palermo and his company IDOS received orders from the city 150 miles. Crowns. Lubomír Kašák ended up shot, and his killer, according to the police, committed suicide. I don't know how many dead people were around Mr. Kalousek. I'm sure that wasn't important to the House. Privatization OKD. Because of the coupon privatization of your founder ODS Klaus, he lost his majority in OKD. Why didn't the government of Václav Klaus intervene in 1997? Why didn't the police intervene when the former head of the Czech National Property Fund filed a criminal complaint and tried to stop the process? The case of OKD is a case of unprecedented heartless tunning of the company, where its financier Bakala and his associates gained and pulled approximately 110 billion out of OKD. Crowns. Yes, dear miners, 110 billion. The crown! He made 30 billion on the sale of a share of shares in a public offer. According to the annual reports NWR and OKD received only 65 billion dividends for 2006 and 2012. Another estimate of at least 15 billion. made by selling apartments and still had another property worth 10 billion. By dividing OKD on 22 May 2006 into several companies. He transferred the property to the successor companies. One example for all. RPG RE LAND, which was renamed Asental Land on 5 May 2014. Last Friday I attended a trade union conference of miners and on that day Asental Land still owned 19 862 plots with a total area of 45 903 106 sqm of land in the whole Czech Republic and 92 properties. RPG RE Residential was renamed on 1. 12. 2006 at RPG Apartments. And what happened? The miners were prepared after the privatisation and subsequent steps by Mr Bakala for the apartments, as he continued to sell them cheerfully. He promised the miners 40,000 flats. The price at which Bakala sold them can only be speculated, but such a transaction could represent approximately 10 billion. Crowns. And what's the result today? OKD threatens to collapse. There's a threat of closing down and releasing the miners. I ask: Why are we not talking about this case and its consequences, which to a significant extent affects the state? Is there an emergency meeting about that? Of course it's not. Mr. Bakala was a political party sponsor. ODS and TOP 09. Only in 2010 he gave 15 miles. ODS and TOP 09 7.5 miles. And Public Things 6 miles. So I'm asking you to return the money to OKD. Give it back to the miners so we can pay less for their early pensions that we promised them. And, of course, our coalition government will take care of them. But the atrocities that the political parties carried out here after the revolution were so much that I could talk here for months. Now I'd like to comment on the media hunt that the system is throwing on me. It was just Bakalův's reporters... [[Voices on the right: Matrix.]] Yeah, yeah, the Matrix... who actively participates in this campaign, who didn't even get enough work to find out that the grant is 50 million, not 54. Even this morning, this lie was repeated by public Czech television. So one writes 54, and they're all copying it. I think some of you remember my tweet "I think I'm gonna buy something tomorrow," and I'm not gonna elaborate. Bakalův's journalist went further on March 7, 2016 at 13.46. Listen to what she wrote: Hello, according to our information, the police are interfering in the Capi nest. Is that true? What do you say? How will you proceed? Do you see this as a political order? I called my colleagues, and of course there was no police. The press didn't believe it, so they went out there. And there wasn't really any police. So they failed to go away. But imagine if I responded to the reporter's text, maybe it's just that I don't know anything about it. And maybe she'd publish it, and the damage would be done. And all of this is written by the media that owns Zdeněk Bakala, a man who lost billions to the Czech Republic. A man who lets mines crash and cowardly runs to Switzerland. Another creator of the hate campaign is the owner of TV Barrandov Jaromír Soukup, who denoches me through his TV and all his media. It started with a case invented by Soukup's journalist Daniel Köppl, who purposefully collects defensive information on my family. They made a "Grabs" case for my partner. My mistress was repeatedly dehonested on TV by Barrandov. Soukup's henchmen and stalkers waited in the car every morning for a few days before my wife's brother's residence and followed his wife and his own. By their articles and shows, they terrorize our family with only one goal - to damage it. It is certainly just a coincidence that Mr Soukup has helped with ODS campaigns, Green Party, TOP 09, Public Affairs and others in the past. He was the creator of the Green Party's economic programme and was in charge of subsidies from the European Union. He was also the architect of the World Ski Championship fiasco in Liberec, after which there were hundreds of millions of debts. By the way, he also tried to sell me his empire for three billion, but since there was no trade, in return, I am facing a hateful and systematic campaign to harm me and my family. Another media tycoon whose weekly is constantly attacking me and lying is František Savov, who was on the run in the UK at that time, a man suspected of tax cuts for tax evasion of 780 miles. The crown for which the search was announced. A man who participated in the tunneling of the Czech Railways and in carrying out 500 miles. CZK from the Czech Consolidation Agency, acquired millions of assets that previously belonged to the GSM. It was one of the biggest cop-pad tunnel scams. He owned companies with an unknown ownership structure based abroad. He's currently waiting for a court decision in London where he was apprehended. Even his companies or companies connected to him are getting money from the state, such as the Klasa media campaign for 300 miles. By the way, part of the campaign for this brand was working with Mr. Soukup. Another of the truth bearers and the person who expressed himself in the media with certainty that I had done a grant fraud is Mr. David Ondráčka from Transparency International. We approached pan Ondráčka before the parliamentary elections in 2013. The movement offered him to be shadow minister of the interior, but then he didn't have the courage to join us. It was only after we succeeded in October 2013 that the coalition government suddenly had a great deal of interest in being an interior minister. [[16.50 hours]] Mr. Ondráčka doesn't have any information about the case, but in public he claims it's a grant fraud. Unfortunately, Czech Television, a public institution from which spectators would rightly expect independent and objective news for their licence fees, has also launched an open campaign on the Capi nest and is unable to verify information as I saw this morning that the subsidy is not 54 million, as Bakalův journalists write, but 50, although the case is being investigated by the audit authority of the European Commission, the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and the Police of the Czech Republic, only on the basis of a series of anonymous statements to Brussels and the Police of the Czech Republic. I would just like to remind the citizens that we pay CZK 135 a month for public television and CZK 45 a month for radio charges, which is 180 a month. In 2014, Czech Television collected CZK 5.68 billion from citizens. Czech Radio collected CZK 2 billion on fees from Czech citizens. That is why I find it incredible that public institutions, to which citizens pay CZK 7.7 billion a year, are intensively campaigning for the Cape Nest, which is being investigated by the police and everyone. The Czech Radio and Czech Television are to supervise their advice, to ensure that the news is objective and balanced. They can vote and call off the CEO. The apparent objectivity is to guarantee the fact that councillors' nominations are designed by social organizations. But the traditional parties can handle themselves. They drag their man through the organization and then choose him as part of a wider coalition. Of course, they are mostly political retired, deferred members, or party activists who faithfully serve their party for giving their party a warm spot. This is also the case of TV councilman Zdeněk Šarapatka, who wanted to cancel the show of host Jílková You mít the floor. You know what bothered him so much? Well that there was Babiš and that he even talked about reducing VAT to beer, curled up, and that there he was talking about EET. It is an incredible audacity that the Czech Finance Minister can speak on Czech television about the upcoming law that will affect hundreds of thousands of Czech people. So I absolutely don't understand whose interests this councilman defends. It's probably not Czech citizens. Czech television and radio are independent of paper, in fact listen to traditional parties and for good work the directors of television and radio have a considerable counter-service. Their money management, which they receive from people, is virtually not controlled. Why, then, would they be interested in doing something about it? The moderator of 168 hours is logically willing to say, in prime time, that I sneaked 50 million from my giant. How can he even afford it? I don't understand. How can I defend myself? I'm just gonna get back to you, and everyone's gonna start screaming, "Censorship to the free media!" Also the performance of the reporter Vrána on Czech Television this morning, who claims that no investor appears in the Nest's accounts. What investor, Mr. Vrána? The investor is the Farm Capi nest. I think you meant shareholders. This can be seen as the level they invite to Czech Television. Mr. Leština also spoke the same way, from Bakala, that where is the investor? Investor and shareholder are quite different things. So try to keep things straight. As a result, the YES movement has long advocated the full depoliticisation of the television and radio council and, at the same time, strict control over the use of public money on television and on radio. That's what one of the definitions of public media sounds like. The aim of their operation is to prevent the misuse of media by political parties and to support the media as the fourth pillar of democracy. Václav Moravec, the most famous public television moderator, yes, one who belonged to the role of lecturer and protector of journalistic ethics on Czech university grounds, on his show permanently attacks my person and my companies. And so it was at Capi's čapí. I'm quoting his tweet from 14. 3.: Let's stop with the angry campaign. Why it's so hard to understand why Babiš knows the investor of the Tea čapí, but he can't let himself go public right now. Well, it's amazing that the most famous editor actually talks like that. And it's a dirty lie and speculation. Another tweet by Mr Moravec: I'm looking for a weekend villa in the premises of a company. Brand: meaningful use of European subsidies welcome. In addition, she publishes a photograph of my partner. Unbelievable. What's that? What is this disgusting act? The biggest lie of the campaign is that it's my family's luxury home and myself. That's what they say, for example. Bakalův's journalist Jaroslav Spurný. The Tea Nest farm has always been open to the public, which was a condition for granting a subsidy. The villa was never the subject of a grant and was removed from the grant applications at the very beginning. However, a diary published it. Further confirmation of the high journalistic professionalism and credibility, decency and seriousness of Václav Moravec. And all these lies and betrayals are made by someone who takes hundreds of thousands of crowns that citizens pay him from their licence fees and that affects the public by their speculations and assumptions. In this way, the campaign created the biggest misunderstanding and literally hysterical reaction caused by my relentless expression. At that time, news editor Novinek wrote that I was supposed to confess to the possession of Capi's nest, which, of course, is a lie, because I never - and I repeat again, never owned it, and at the time of the application for a subsidy, neither did my company. This misunderstanding arose from the article - title: Babiš's Chapi Nest was fined six million. In the end, he only paid 37 grand. After publishing this lie, because neither I nor Agrofert ever paid any fine, and I never said that I owned the stork's nest, so I called the editor and told her that I didn't own the stork, and I had nothing to do with the fine. Instead of "not," I said "not." I made a bad statement, I was stressed, and it all caused total hysteria. And based on that, there was another distorted headline in News. The stork nest is not mine, it doesn't concern me at all. This is, of course, a debate - the news about the cart and I the goat. This was a really big misunderstanding. Now I would like to comment on Mrs Grässle. Mrs Grässle is the head of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament. The European Parliament's budget is around EUR 145 to 150 billion. Mrs. Grässle, a member of the CDU, is probably having long-term problems with me. The CDU of Chancellor Merkelová is in Parliament in an EPP faction, in the same faction is TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. When Mrs Grässle began to criticise my conflict of interest, her colleagues commented that this was her private opinion and not the committee's opinion. Specifically, the then Chairman of the Jens Geier Committee said so. I subsequently asked Mrs. Grässle to meet. We met in Berlin on October 28, 2014. I bought flowers, talked to her in German for an hour, explained the history of the movement, and how I got into politics. She told me that I was important to the Czech Republic and that I should persevere. So we agreed to compare the legality of conflicts of interest in Germany and Austria with the Czech conflict of interest law, which I did, and then I sent her a letter on 9 December 2014. This year, I wrote a letter to Mrs Grässle on 21 January 2016 in response to her interview with a journalist who started and is the main engine of this angry campaign that speculated about the audit authority. It was, of course, a custom-made article by Mr. Wagenknecht, because a journalist has been working with him for a long time, publishing information from the Ministry of Finance and presenting Mr. Wagenknecht's wishes and opinions. Mrs Grässle clearly does not like the Czech Republic. We also remember the scandal we had here with the audit system between Mr. Wagenknecht and Mr. Šlechtová. Mrs Grässle does not like the Czech Republic, probably because Czech snitches who carry anonymous false information go there. I therefore feel that her approach is not correct and has a political touch. She spoke three weeks before the European parliamentary elections. So I'm convinced the lady doesn't do it by accident. [[17,00 hours]] Now I'd like to comment on the pseudo-case at Olaf. I would like to comment on the alleged survey of the Cape čapí at the Brussels Office of OLAF, while it also does so in vehemently by the media. On 5 January 2016, a server publishes a report that the European Anti-Fraud Office of OLAF has begun to address the suspicion that the company Agrofert has changed the hidden lobbying in the state administration of the drawing of subsidies in its favour. On 6 January 2016, the Office of the Ministry of Finance, organised by the Department of the Central Contact Point of AFKOS, addressed Deputy Minister Vyhnánek to OLAF to confirm whether or not the information is true, as Mr Vyhnánek said, from the position of Deputy Chief of Financial Management and Audit, responsible for close cooperation and communication with OLAF. In the event of the initiation of any investigation by OLAF, communication between the relevant staff of the Ministry of Finance and OLAF is necessary and absolutely standard. It is also understandable that, if OLAF had been informed of the alleged initiation of the investigation, it was his duty to verify the accuracy of the information, without a standard basis. I completely reject the fact that I would be tasking someone to investigate any case against OLAF! I'm not crazy! Deputy Minister Vyhnánek has done so on his own initiative and for the purpose of carrying out his duties, for which he is fully responsible. It is neither my place to judge why the Deputy is turning to one or the other official. In this case, he is an expert deputy who is responsible for the agenda, and I find nothing faulty in communicating with subordinates. In the statement of Deputy Minister Vyhnánek, whom he also provided to the media, she is a long-time employee of the Ministry of Finance dealing with this agenda and is considered to be one of the most experienced experts. On 22 and 26 January 2016, following a request for a meeting, I spoke to the senior clerks who turned to OLAF under the authority of Deputy Minister Vyhnánek. I was talking to that clerk's superiors. I didn't talk to the clerk. I've listened to the superiors, and I've come to know their point of view. However, since this is a dispute between employees and, moreover, concerns Agrofert, I have turned to the State Secretary under which all civil servants fall under the Civil Service Act, so that they deal with the matter within their respective competences. If I were to continue to intervene personally in this matter, I would undoubtedly be blamed for such conduct as abuse and influence of the situation. The said employees of the Ministry of Finance have not submitted any formal submissions, even through the investigator of the Ministry of Finance, a complaint under the Civil Service Act or a motion for disciplinary proceedings, although the State Secretary has been assured that if they submit a complaint, they will deal with it immediately. At the moment, I can only say that in the Ministry of Finance the matter is being handled by the Secretary of State, who informed me that in this context he would take the initiative of the Office of the Government. I firmly believe that the Office of the Government will deal with the matter and will examine all the circumstances not according to the media, where the circumstances of the case are fully interpreted and the conclusions drawn are completely false. I would like to comment briefly on the position of the Foundation against corruption. I am very sorry that the Foundation Fund did not wait for my speech and for my explanation, because Mr Karel Janeček, who is the founder of the Foundation Fund against Corruption, who is therefore abusing good morals and good manners, so far as I know, in the past he had problems with taxes on the island of Mauritius and was making up for the fact that he was not able to establish it in Bohemia. [[Laughter and applause from Members of the ODS.]] Three years after the Czech laws allow such a business, the transfer is not planned and hides its company in a luxurious tax haven. Then I don't understand why he's preaching something to me. And, of course, we have Mr. Jančura, who also amused me. [[Laughs of Members of the ODS.]] Mr. Jančura still terrorizes us with Minister Táok because of the Czech Railways, but we have taken over the Czech Railways - yes, we have. That's where you had the žaluda. And we should have left the Czech Railways that way? Or is Mr. Jančura fighting with Minister Šlechtová for bending the law on public procurement? We are paid here to stand with Mr. Transport Minister Tžok and our task is to do our utmost with the Czech Railways so that they do not go bankrupt. I also hypocritically perceive the initiative Return to us the state that calls me to answer some stupid questions. It is so smiling who is the founder of the initiative - Mr. Petr Havlík! Founding member of ODS. He wanted to run our 200,000-a-month movement. Mr. Petr Havlík is český lotynka. I don't understand how anyone can be an anti-corruption activist. The founder of the ODS, Mr Klaus's advisor and former chief manager of the ODS invites me to explain some questions that are mostly pointless. I would like to mention one more self-appointed anti-corruption expert - Mr Janek Kroupa, whom his fellow journalists covertly say is working for the money to order and does not look for anything. This guy works so unprofessionally, he's had an innocent Věra Jourová in custody on the testimony of one man! And as it turned out, it was based on the testimony of the person who committed the crime himself! And yet Mr. Kroupa walks around the world and pretends to be impartially writing cases. Right here today. He says I bought a horse's nest at the Capi's farm. So he said I was the owner at the time of the grant. I think it's preposterous and premeditated as a previous case. And I'm finally at the farm. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] To the farm, then. I'd rather show it to you to see what's going on. [[It shows a large-format photograph.]] 16. 2. 2006 Imoba buys a devastated farmstead of 80 hectares for CZK 10.431 million. 30. 11. 2007 is transformed by ZZN Agro Pelhřimov s.r.o., which was part of Agrofert group, into ZZN Agro Pelhřimov with shares into owners. Why I refused farm owners at the time of application, you will find out at the very end when I will publish them with their consent, although I would not have to. And I promised to be transparent, and I will do that, even if it's an eight-year-old thing that has nothing to do with my political career. The project is created to build a multifunctional congress area serving the public in the tourism sector. Since Imoba and Agrofert did not deal with these activities - tourism - which were different from the subject of their business, they were not interested in implementing this project. At the end of 2007, ZZN Pelhřimov sells 100% of ZZN Agro Pelhřimov's shares to three natural persons for CZK 2.38 million. On 17 January 2008, the general meeting of ZZN Agro Pelhřimov is held, where the company is renamed the Čapí Nest Farm a. s. February 25, 2008 Agrofert signs an agreement on future cooperation with the Čapí Nest Farm. Agrofert is becoming a strategic partner of the farm, which, according to this agreement, means that it will use part of the farm's capacity in the future. 27. 2. 2008 signs Imoba with Farma Čapi Nest contract for rental property, i.e. land and buildings with a lease period of up to 31. 12. 2030! So what scam? Fraud is done 22 years in advance? What nonsense is this? 2030 - rent! [[17.10 hours]] 29. 2. 2008 asks Čapi Nest farm for a grant for the project within the ROP Central Bohemia. This project happened to meet all the conditions for obtaining the subsidy. There was a clear economic assumption that fully legally obtained grant funding would stabilise the entire project economically. Unfortunately, this reasoning has proved to be wrong in the future, for objective reasons, which I will further state. 25. 6. 2008 signs Agrofert's guarantor's declaration for a loan for the construction of the project, amounting to CZK 350 million for the Capi Nest farm. And here it comes. 20. 8. 2008 was approved grant of the Čapi Nest project by the Regional Cohesion Council Committee of Central Bohemia - with the participation of Mr. Governor Bendl, Mrs. Langšádlová sat there and two other members of the committee, all voted in favour of the subsidy. [[He's doing a large-format photo. A round of applause and amusement for some Members. Vice-President Jerman is trying to reach out to him.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u25	Minister, please don't attack in person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u26	I'm just informing who approved it. These people approved it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u27	Please hide the banner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u28	In the end, there is the best finance minister Kalousek, who checked everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u29	Mr. Secretary. [[The Minister doesn't interrupt the speech.]] Minister, I ask you very much to hide the banner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u30	All those present voted in favour of this subsidy. He was not the only member of the committee who voted against. But there was no reason. If I've studied it all now and I've asked, there's no reason. Mr. Wagenknecht was head of audit department at ROP Central Bohemia at the time of preparation of the application and its approval. Mr. Wagenknecht has a problem today. He even says that subsidies are crooked by the market. So he discovered America. That's how we know. But then why are we in the European Union? Or we give it up. So the head of the audit department. He's making sense today. 22. 10. 2008 was signed a contract to grant the subsidy by the Governor for the ODS Bendl. The financial plan of the project and the budget, the content of which was the planned expenditure and the planned revenue of the project, was also the annex to this Treaty. The total amount of eligible expenditure planned by the provider was determined as follows: the total planned expenditure of the project was 436 588 thousand. So Wagenknecht lies when he says they were 203 392 625,79. Yes, the ROP has it listed on the website! But that's the eligible expenditure planned. And he doesn't have scheduled unfit expenses. The villa went away. It was never in the grant. Maneuvering again. Now I will finally say and hopefully all of Bakal's media will write it down, even Czech Television - the allocated subsidy was CZK 49 997 443,29, of which European money 42 578 135.80. Investment subsidy of the Region 3 749 808,25 CZK. Investment grants from the state budget 3 749 808,24. Someone argued that the farm had allegedly taken someone's chance to get a grant. So the total allocation for the years 2007 to 2013 for the ROP Central Bohemia was 14 922 852 962,50 CZK. By the end of the year, this programme was exhausted, or now in January, at 91,2 percent and probably the entire programme will not be exhausted. So somebody here says "we have to draw, we have to draw," and if there's a company that's exhausting, then there's a problem. The Čapi Nest farm project was repeatedly controlled by ROP Central Bohemia. 28. 7. 2008 ROP Central Bohemia - preliminary public on-the-spot inspection - significant deficiencies were not identified. That was for Mr. Bendl. 28. 7. 2010 ROP Central Bohemia - ongoing public on-the-spot check - no shortcomings were identified. That was for Mr. Rath. 9. 2. 2011 audit was carried out by ROP Central Bohemia, where a breach of the conditions of budgetary discipline for reimbursement of ineligible expenditure was found, which was that payment was included in the payment application, which had not yet been paid by the beneficiary. This was brought to the attention of ROP personnel in advance in writing. Following a request for remission on 10 February 2012, the original proposal for a contribution was dropped - I do not know why the journalists wrote six million - and it was in the amount of CZK 3 718 753. Finally, the farm - and not Babiš, as it was in the headline, Babiš had nothing to do with it - paid CZK 37 188. Mr. Rath signed the decision. 17. 4. 2012 ROP Central Bohemia says: no findings have been identified. And 12. 4. 2013 was ordered by the Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic an extraordinary audit carried out by the renowned audit firm KPMG based on the order of the Ministry of Finance. And here again is our favorite finance minister, Mr. Kalousek. Everything without finding it. I don't understand. Are you talking about fraud? What scam? How did you figure that out? Why did you even call this meeting when she's being investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic? With OLAF investigating her. And journalists who terrorize my family. Why did you call her? You couldn't wait? Or don't you have another subject? Of course. Babiš - the enemy. No audit or control indicated that the subsidy was drawn in breach of EU conditions. That is why, in all my comments, I have also reacted so that the repayment of the subsidy was never in danger and was granted under the rules in force. Previously, a media-sponsored villa has never been the subject of a grant. Not a penny of grant funds went to its implementation. By the way, the farm was defined from the very beginning as a multifunctional congress area of the Farm Tea Nest. This was the official name of the project included in the grant application. Rumours that they serve especially for corporate parties are unjustified. The farm carries out conferences, professional trainings, teambuildings, corporate management meetings, corporate seminars, weddings, birthday parties and other events. Its activities are still fully in line with the project's intention and the subject of the challenge. The Capi Nest farm - and now I would like everyone to be alert, Mr Šídlo, Mr. Rebellious, everyone - has visited more than 125,000 visitors from 2012 to 2015. 125,000 visitors! And why do you say it's Babišův's luxury mansion if it's a lie? And there were 452 schools and kindergartens. 27,398 children came to visit the Ecocentrum. If you want, I can read all the schools here - Benešov, Bystřice, Milevsko, but I won't, that would be another hour. Kolovraty, Kunratice. Yes, and the kids are thrilled when they go there. It is necessary to mention events such as open day, Easter fair for the public, Christmas tying wreaths for the public, Earth Day in Ecocentrum and show one of the best acrobatic pilots, Czech pilots in the world Martin Šonka, which took place on 26 July 2015 with the participation of almost 5,000 spectators. And this year, the action for great success will be repeated. So, guys, come take a look. 18. 6. 2016 will be Martin Šonka again on the farm! [[Reactions from the O.R.]] In the last two years, the farm has been actively helping to increase attendance in other accommodation capacities in the region during events that exceed its accommodation capacity and actively cooperates with the Association of Hotels and Restaurant of the Czech Republic in supporting tourism. The Chapi Nest farm created 51 - I repeat - 51 jobs with the majority representation of the citizens of Benešov district. For its existence, the farm took about 30 million from social and health insurance. The contractual form provides seasonal work of over 100 people and cooperates with more than 50 suppliers of services and goods throughout the region. The value of the farm's property The stork's nest as far as 31. 12. 2015 is 738 236 577 kroner. For 2016 there are planned investments of 155 863 057 CZK, namely the construction of an exotic animal pavilion, complete reconstruction of the kitchen, gasification of the premises, construction of a new transformer station, construction of outdoor pools, construction of a new spa wellness, reconstruction of a sewage treatment plant and inflatable hall at tennis courts. [[17.20 hours]] The estimated value of farm assets after these investments will be 31. 12. 2016 889 451 269 CZK. This means that at the end of 2016, the subsidy share will fall to 5,32 per cent of the total investment. I do not know how many such projects with a own resource ratio of 95 per cent and 5 per cent of the subsidy are throughout the European Union. I think it's the minimum. Between 2008 and 2013, Čapí Farm reported the loss of CZK 28 560 000. The equity was negative, minus CZK 25,844,000. The ratio of the current asset to the foreign source was at 31. 12. 2012 negative, namely 572 755 000 CZK. And this morning, the editor said she didn't actually have debts. The farm debt at the given date was CZK 615 458 000. The initial investment plan was not fulfilled due to the financial crisis in 2008, 2009 and 2010. There were insufficient orders and individual tourism could not cover the payment of the loan. Due to the guarantee of the bank loan by Agrofert, this project was forced to take over at the end of 2013. After the takeover, the farm lost CZK 40 961 000 in 2014 and lost CZK 48 456 000 in 2015. In 2016, the assumption of loss is 52 243 000 CZK. Overall, the loss in the last three years, including this year, will be CZK 141,660 000. Unlike other billionaires, I don't own a luxury plane or a luxury yacht. But my firm runs a public project that makes me happy. I believe that after the investment has been completed, the farm will make a profit on its operation. So I repeat, the project is profitable today, it serves the public. And once again, it's not my family's luxury home. Any citizen of our country can make sure of that. So what I showed you-- this is the Stork Nest Farm, this is the compound. [[He's pulling out a poster with a picture of the farm. A round of applause from members of the YES.]] You can see where you are. I think the Czech Republic has nothing to be ashamed of. So I guess that's it. And we're going to the final so I don't hold you up. In 2005, eleven years ago, I was with my children in the Prague zoo, back there, as the fences were. There was a long line, we were expecting to feed the goats, and that's when I thought I'd build a family farm with animals. The farm was to be built by IMOBA from Agrofert and rented out. However, the intention did not go well economically. Subsequently, the IMOBA considered building a congress centre for Agrofert as an alternative. Even this plan did not work economically. Specialist for European funds came in 2007 with a proposal for a new project open to the public, a multifunctional congress area Farma Čapi nest. This project, which qualified for the subsidy, was economically returnable. Since the project was not about Agrofert's business, I did not want to implement it as Agrofert, and therefore I did not want to deal with it and did not deal with it. My daughters have been riding since they were kids. I decided to give my family the resources to buy the company and implement the project. My two adult children and my partner's brother, who held a share of the share of my two underage children and my partner, owned the Capi Nest at a decisive time. I am convinced that the ownership of the Farm Capi Nest had no impact on the acquisition of the subsidy. Even according to the grant specialists, I personally and not the company could have been 100% shareholder of the farm. It's illogical, but it's true. Why is that? Well, ask Brussels. I didn't have any reason to hide anything. The subsidy was granted in accordance with the rules in force. I didn't commit any grant fraud. Why didn't I want to say the names of the shareholders? Well, because I didn't want to put my kids at risk. My family! That's the most valuable thing I have! [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] That's why I didn't always express myself correctly. I couldn't tell the truth! That's what every parent has to understand! I have, Mr Benda - Mr Benda, through Madam President, four children like you, so I'm sure you will understand. Because kids are the most valuable thing we have. They're the meaning of our lives. I don't regret my decision, because we all see what kind of media pursuit my family and I have. Family is more important to me than my political career. I have decided to publish the shareholder structure now, not under the pressure of my enemies, but at the request of my loved ones, in response to the endless attacks by journalists on me and to a project that has turned a half-breaking farm into a beautiful area open to the public, but which has been politically abused against me in order to exclude me from political life. I am informed that IMOBA, as the legal successor to the Čapí Nest Farm, has had an independent expert opinion and critical independent legal analysis processed on the issue of granting and drawing the subsidy. I've been briefed on both documents. It is available to law enforcement authorities. It is clear from both these independent investigations that the entire procedure for obtaining and drawing the subsidy was fully in line with the legislation. I believe that despite an unprecedented media massage of public and professional opinion, citizens will understand me and the authorities involved in criminal proceedings and audit authorities will retain full impartiality. Finally, I would like to apologize to my family for all the concerns and problems that have arisen because I am in politics. At the same time, I apologize to the public for avoiding the question of who the farm shareholders are. I did not assume that this great project for the public, for which the Czech Republic should be praised in Brussels, would be used against me. So much for the Chap's Nest case. I have no doubt that anything I say today will continue to hunt me. It would be best for me to resign today. At least I could go to people and explain to them what a stork nest is, how politics works. I know that today. I didn't know that in October 2013. But I'm not gonna do it because I promised my constituents that I would fight for our program. And that's why I'm gonna keep going. There's no reason our coalition government doesn't work anymore. And of course it depends on our coalition partners. But I think we've done well and that we should continue to work in favour of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u31	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue, before approving the draft agenda by stating, firstly, the cancellation of Mrs Benešová's apology, an apology from 16 o'clock until the end of Mr Zahradníček's meeting day, an apology from Mr Herbert Pavera from 18 o'clock to midnight. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Petr Fiala. We're still here before the show's approved. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I beg the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the Chamber of Deputies had allowed me, as was logical, to speak before Minister Babiš, Minister Babiš did not have to constantly ask why we are proposing an extraordinary meeting because he would have heard from me. But what happened here, I think, is incredible, and it's hard for me to comment. I have involuntaryly found myself at an election meeting of the ANO movement, and I consider that to be completely undignified. And the fact that I had to stay here, I consider it a kind of violence against me, and I'm going to think about what I'm going to do about it. But it is undignified for this House and for all of you who have allowed this, including the way in which the meeting is held, which Vice-President Jermanová has shown here, you are responsible for this. And I am prophesying to you that you will be the first, now I am speaking to democratic political parties who will be avenged and who will be paid for this, because in the Chamber of Deputies, to allow this outrageous pre-election rhetoric presented by the Chairman of the YES movement, that is simply a fundamental mistake. However, I will not be provoked and I will not be drawn into a debate in which I would throw out the individual accusations that Andrej Babiš has brought against the whole world, and I will return the attention to what Andrej Babiš ended up with and what he touched at the end of his performance, and that is why we are gathered here, and that is the case of the Cape Nest. By the way, and allow me to make that remark, before I start with the various arguments, Minister Babiš repeatedly invites the public to visit the Capi Nest, and tells us, even to us Members, come and see it, I invite you all, it's for the public. Now, Minister, I'm telling you, if this continues, you don't have to invite us there, because we're all in the Hive, or we're all going to be in the Hive, because if this continues, you're turning the Czech Republic into the Hive. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] But let's go right back to the case and the reasons why we're calling an emergency meeting. You may not believe this, but I'm not happy to meet you here today over the Capi Nest case. In the current situation of the Czech Republic, there are certainly topics to be addressed here and should be addressed, and it would be better for the citizens of our country. But the reason why we meet here, although Minister Babiš does not want to believe it, is serious and we have no choice but to talk about the case of the Capi Nest at this extraordinary meeting. I would remind you here of the words that Bohuslav Sobotka said to the Chamber of Deputies at a time when he was not Prime Minister of this government, i.e. in March 2011 as a representative of the opposition. I quote: "According to our view, the Chamber of Deputies cannot get rid of its role of control, which it has from the Constitution towards the Government. And if the government fails, if any structure of the government fails, then it is the duty of all Members and Members to deal with it. There's no way we're closing our eyes to these things, pretending that nothing's really going on, and letting these things go away like nothing really happened. Those things need to be dealt with. And if the Prime Minister does not deal with them, if they are not dealt with by the government coalition, then this Chamber of Deputies has to take responsibility for this and this Chamber of Deputies has to act." End of quote from the words of Bohuslav Sobotka from March 2011. Yes, I completely agree with Bohuslav Sobotka on this matter, and I have to say how I do not do this with other statements that these words have not lost anything on their validity. Indeed, the Chamber of Deputies must act. And they must act in this case because neither the Minister of Finance nor the Prime Minister has been able to face the case of the Capi Nest in the last three weeks. As you all know, a few weeks ago, there was serious information about the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and on the basis of this information that was not explained, and I do not think that Andrej Babiš's speech today did explain many of these questions, so it was and it is the opposition's duty to demand this explanation. And it is also the duty of the opposition, which Prime Minister Sobotka once knew well when he was alone in opposition, to demand the Prime Minister of the country to take a position on this matter, not to hide his head in the sand and deal with this case. The case of the Cape Nest damages the government, damages the reputation of the Czech Republic abroad and, above all, damages the trust of the citizens of this country in politics and politics. This case is no longer just a story, the problem of the Minister of Finance, but also the problem of the entire government, and therefore the problem of Prime Minister Sobotka. I expected the Minister of Finance to try to explain the whole case with confidence today, but I didn't see it coming. Perhaps because the speech dealt with everything and the entire history of the modern Czech Republic and various pseudo-causes and various personal attacks, so I may have lost a little bit of explaining, but I fear that even after I read the interpretation of Andrej Babiš more thoroughly, I will not have an answer to some of the essential questions that I will reminisce about and ask them again on behalf of the public. But if he can't properly explain the case to the Minister of Finance, if he hasn't succeeded and if he hasn't succeeded in the next few hours, then I think it's appropriate to demand that the Czech Prime Minister take action. There's no other option. This is also one of the reasons why we have decided to call this extraordinary meeting to bring light to a case that has been moving the Czech Republic for several weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, when Andrej Babiš stepped into politics, he blew his way of fighting corruption and fraud, and in a small part of Czech society, he gave the impression that he was a pure messiah who would correct all the world's evils. Let us remember, for example. to the 2011 words of Andrej Babiš: "For more and more people it is unacceptable to pay taxes to the state that robs them. It's taboo, a lot of things only suspect. That doesn't mean it's not true. How can politicians want citizens to save their money, to make themselves scarce when people see what huge sums are stolen from the common register?" So much Andrej Babiš in an interview for Hospodářské noviny in 2011. After two years, and not only in the light of this case, it is clear that the Minister of Finance is no pure savior, a messiah, and the current case, as explained so far, shows us that those who have full mouths of morality and constantly preach it to others, often behave much more immorally than those who criticize themselves. To the permanent conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš, who is a government, undertaking, drawing subsidies, participating in public procurement, own media, we pointed to this permanent conflict of interest from the very beginning. This problem has not disappeared, and it also needs to be addressed. But ladies and gentlemen, the Chapi Nest case is quite different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u33	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If you're discussing anything other than the subject of today's meeting, please be in the lobby. I'm thinking about all the crowds here in the hall. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u34	In the light of the Minister of Finance's pre-election rhetoric, but, of course, not only in the light of this rhetoric, it is necessary for the public to know the truth about the Capi hnízdo. And here I will remind again, even after the special interpretation of Andrej Babiš, what is actually the essence of the whole case and what the problem is. The point of the case is that the Minister of Finance is suspected of using European subsidies to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The essence of this case is that the second richest person in the Czech Republic, as we have repeatedly heard here, the billionaire, as Andrej Babiš calls himself, is suspected of artificially leading one of his companies out of his holding to reach these subsidies. And the essence of this case is also that he hid the owner of this company for anonymous shareholders, even though he himself played against anonymous shares x-times. [[17.40 hours]] We learned today that his direct relatives were the anonymous shareholders. All these published indications suggest that Andrej Babiš has been controlling the company's nest all along. And I don't know how you felt about his interpretation, but I didn't get a different opinion about it. Yes, Andrej Babiš has been controlling the nest, controlling it all along, and having a significant influence on it. What leads the media and the public to ask those questions that I have reminded here, what leads the public and the media to ask questions that we do not yet have a satisfactory answer to? Let us recall the facts or the impressions, the suspicions, what we can conclude is that this case is not in order and that Andrej Babiš did not act as he should have done. We conclude, for example, that one of Babišův's daughters and brother, Andrej Babiš, met in the statutory bodies of the company Čapi Nest, which according to Andrej Babiš, never belonged to him. Of representing the anonymous owners of Mgr on her board. Václav Knotek, who also worked in a number of other companies in Agrofert and is one of the closest collaborators of the Minister of Finance. From the fact that Agrofert was vouch for a $350-million-dollar loan to the Capi Nest farm. From the fact that another of Andrej Babiš's companies lent Chapi the čapí to one of its cars. From the fact that the web domain www.capihnizdo.cz is owned from 2007 to today by Agrofert holding. From the fact that the plots and all buildings on the Capi nest belong to the company Imoba, whose owner is Andrej Babiš. The same company that works for Agrofert carried out an audit of the management of the Tea Nest. From the fact that the general meetings of the Chapi Nest were held at the mansion of Agrofert. And so we could continue. As a result, it doesn't really matter who physically held the anonymous stock of the stork's nest. After all, no company can be assessed separately, but within the entire group in which it operates. And not only does it matter who owns it, but especially who has decisive powers in it and whose benefit it carries out its activities. The Supervisory Board and the Board shall always represent the owners of the company and carry out their tasks. To whose benefit did Andrej Babiš's daughter, sitting on the Supervisory Board of the Chapi čapí, act, if not in favor of her father? In whose behalf did Monika Babišová's brother act if not in behalf of his sister? Whose benefit was Václav Knotek, a close associate of Babišův from Agrofert? And we do not have to be lawyers to ask such questions, to raise such questions in public debate, and to have to answer such questions or to answer such questions. We don't have to base any circumstantial evidence. Andrej Babiš himself admitted several times that the stork's nest was his, and he did so at a time when, according to official documents, the stork's nest did not belong in the holding. How else do you explain his words from today's legendary Matrix AB movie "welcome to the Hive of Cap, I think it's the best project I've ever come up with"? And then there was a story about the kids waiting in line at the Prague Zoo to feed the goats. How else do you explain the tweets in which they refer to Capi nest as "my farm" at a time when the stork's nest was not officially part of Agrofert's holding? How else do you explain the words of Andrej Babiš's partner, who presented the nest as a weekend family hacienda for her life-style magazines and admitted that she was involved in inventing the interior of the villa? Of course, I listened to the Minister as much as I could. So it's not clear to me what it was, what it didn't belong to, maybe this can be explained, but it certainly raises the question of how it really is with the Cap's nest. But if I sum it up, even if one of those things didn't pay or was explainable, it all clearly points to the fact that Andrej Babiš has always been and is the owner of Capi's čapí. Farms for which he received a subsidy from European funds. A subsidy for which only projects of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs had a chance otherwise. And that's not Andrej Babiš, he wasn't, and he's always proud to claim it himself. As this procedure combines with the promises of this same Andrej Babiš, the head of the ANO movement, who declared before the 2013 elections that - I quote: only a transparent company must receive all public contracts - and that - I quote again: companies with anonymous subsidies should be prohibited from trading with the state and receiving subsidies. [[stocks?]] Yes, that's what Andrej Babiš said before the 2013 election. And Andrej Babiš, as I have already recalled, likes to refer himself to as a man who carries billions of crowns into the budget, who gives tens of thousands of people work. And as you may say, he certainly doesn't look like a small and medium-sized businessman. Mr Babiš likes to say that he is facing a huge opposition campaign that is being prepared for him for a long time. We heard it again today in the Chamber of Deputies. I said I wouldn't disprove, I wouldn't jump on the game, I wouldn't deny the individual attacks and accusations that Andrej Babiš here has fought against political parties, former representatives of this state, and individuals who sit in the Chamber of Deputies, although I must say that it is sometimes difficult to hold on to all these insults and accusations. But on this reservation that this is a huge campaign of opposition, I would like to comment briefly on this. We didn't invent this case, we didn't invent it. We don't have any investigative journalists we control. We don't control all this. We were simply commenting and commenting on the information that appeared in the media and in public, and that is the duty of the opposition, but that is what we have to do and we have to do it. And that information is here, that's what the public lives on, that's what they say in the media, and they can't be ignored. Does the Minister really think that the opposition is under the control of the European Anti-Fraud Office, the so-called OLAF that investigates the entire case? And here I would just remind the Minister that OLAF is investigating over 1,400 incentives a year, but it is really dealing with less than 15 percent, where it finds it reasonable to suspect after a thorough examination. This institution itself has launched an investigation into the suspicion itself, which shows some seriousness, since OLAF does not choose cases randomly but on the basis of its own analysis of the incentives. And here OLAF did one of those many analyses of the individual incentives, and he assessed it as serious, and put it among the less than 15 percent of the submissions, which he then investigates. Does Minister Babiš really think the right-wing opposition is involved? Does the Minister really think the opposition or the media control the Czech police investigating the case? Does Andrej Babiš really think that the opposition controls the media so perfectly that it controls the media owned by him, which could no longer be silent due to social pressure and started writing about this case herself? The Minister's rhetoric is ridiculous in this regard, and I don't think he trusts her or anyone around him. I think he would have done better to stop blaming everyone who is calling attention to the irregularities surrounding the grant, and instead, he would have explained all aspects of the case with confidence, because the public has the right to do so. It's obvious that the explanation doesn't come easily. Andrej Babiš took more than two weeks to build at least a certain degree of a credible story, but even so, today we learned only what anyone had done in the past, what someone allegedly stole, he did nothing, that it was an angry campaign of opposition, coalition partners, his former collaborators, his current associates, his former journalists, his current journalists, the German CDU and the European Union. That's all we've learned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] [[17.50 hours]] I didn't just feel like I was at the Yes movement's election rally, I've never been there, so I'm having a hard time judging it. But I figured it kind of looked that way. It reminded me of one more thing about the attacks, the rhetoric. It reminded me of an infamous speech from Red Castle or whatever it was called. And I missed the stake in the fence and the questioning of many artists and others and others. But the conspiracy, the nonsense, the things that seem to be connected, and they're not connected at all, that was all in the speech of Minister Andrej Babiš. Maybe it was a tactic to divert attention from the real nature of this case. But if such a tactic was, I think you grossly underestimate, Minister, the public and at least underestimate Members in this Chamber of Deputies, because we do not fall for something like this. But let's go a little further. Let us go a short distance from the finance minister Andrej Babiš, from whom we have not received a credible explanation, and perhaps many of us did not expect it, and let us go to his superior. I must say that if Andrej Babiš has not dealt with the case in a credible way and if he does not do so in the near future, it is time for his superior, the Prime Minister, to deal with the situation. And once again, I would like to do this a lot today, but some of the Prime Minister's remarks from the past are really remarkable, and I would like to quote Bohuslav Sobotka here again. I quote: 'Cause I think people expect the Prime Minister to be strong, to deal with things and to actually lead the government.' So those are the words of Bohuslav Sobotka from 2011. I think, too, I expect the Prime Minister to be strong, and people expect him to be strong and to deal with the situation. That's how he should remember his words. I also cannot deny the Prime Minister a certain prognostic ability because he said in September 2011, and I will quote it again literally: "I believe that every prime minister, regardless of whether he belongs to the right or to the left, should depend on the reputation and authority of his government among the citizens. I have been waiting," I keep quoting Bohuslav Sobotka, "what is the position on this case. I expected the Minister of Finance to distance himself from him, that his behavior would be condemned, that he would draw the right conclusions. But it didn't happen. Does this mean that the Prime Minister approves such a meeting? How is it that the Prime Minister has not distanced himself since the Minister's actions? How is it that the Prime Minister did not invite such a member of the government to resign as a member of the government? I mean, he's hurting the government's reputation. But if the Minister of Finance is unable to draw the consequences of this serious failure himself, the Prime Minister should act and propose his appeal. After all, in a cultural civilised country anywhere in the European Union if a member of the government did this, they must leave immediately." Ladies and gentlemen, Bohuslav Sobotka, September 2011. For the context, to understand the context that you no longer remember, I remind you that the serious failure of the then Minister of Finance was to slap a young man who attacked him vulgarly. Yes, it's nothing to praise the Minister, my esteemed colleague, at the time. But you have to admit that this situation is completely incomparable. And as the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka did at that time, and how he would have dealt with the situation decisively if it were his minister! Today has an opportunity, and we haven't received a single word. If the Prime Minister does not mind that there is a person in his government who is suspected of circumventing the grant rules, because, as the Prime Minister claims, our government is not concerned, even though this is not true, he should at least address the matter that undoubtedly concerns this government immediately. As Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš has audit of European subsidies in the Czech Republic. It is the highest instance in the Czech Republic to control the drawing of European money. It is unacceptable that, in this situation, if he is suspected of having committed a subsidy fraud or his company, he should in this situation be the highest instance in controlling the use of European money in order to perform that function in this situation. A week ago, the magazine Reporter, the Minister of Finance also mentioned it briefly, witnessed two current employees of the Ministry of Finance, when it became clear that the current Deputy Minister of Finance Tomáš Vyhnánek was tasking a ministerial official to find out in Brussels whether and how OLAF explains the accusations of Andrej Babiš companies. This is a situation that already concerns this government. This is a situation before which the Prime Minister cannot put his head in the sand. And I think the Deputy Minister of Finance, whom Andrej Babiš brought to the Ministry when he tried to get information on how Babišův's companies were investigating, acted in a way that was disproportionate. But even if it turns out that he was doing exactly the right thing, as the Minister of Finance has tried to convince us here, this case already shows that something here is not right. That it is not okay that whoever is responsible for the Czech Republic, for controlling the use of European money, is himself suspected of subsidising fraud and continues to do this control function. It's just not okay. And they will logically appear to suspect that the investigation is not going as it should. However, I believe that the behavior of Babišův's deputy is unacceptable, that he does not belong in the rule of law, and that he should not have sat in the Ministry of Finance long ago. And I ask, what does the Prime Minister say about that, what does Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka say? Nothing. As usual, he's silent on this matter. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer an Yes and Mr Babiš case, a case that casts a shadow on the entire government, and Prime Minister Sobotka should be aware of that, he should face it and act in some way. And I ask the Prime Minister why he doesn't stick to his words in the past, that the Minister should resign, that he should resign now and wait until the problem is resolved. How are we to take your statements seriously about the lack of presumption of innocence and such things in politics? That's what you said when you were in charge of the opposition. Now, as Prime Minister, you don't apply to these words. And if you have a short or selective memory, Prime Minister, I would like to remind you of your declared ethical principles of political behavior. I quote: "The moment a member of the government discovers that his co-workers are acting unstandardly, acting in a strange way in which they express themselves in a strange way, he is to act, especially if he is a minister of the government. " Those are your words, Prime Minister. Those are the December 2010 words again. And I'm asking you why you don't put the same maximum on your government members right now, the same moral requirements, the same ethical principles, the same presumption of guilt as you did in the past on the ministers of past governments when you were the leader of the opposition. However, to be fair, ladies and gentlemen, there has obviously been suspicion of the failure of individuals in the past. Recall the case of the environmental minister Pavel Drobil, who resigned after being his subordinate - subordinate! - accused of wrongdoing. Not him, but only his subordinate. Pavel Drobil did not clique, accepted political responsibility and resigned. [[Minister Babiš dropped an empty plastic bottle into the area of the rhetoric, apologizing off the microphone that he didn't do it on purpose.]] No, we didn't go down in political culture so much that the minister threw it at me, it just fell down. [[Slight entertainment in the hall.]] But let's remember the Pavel Drobil case. And I remind him even though it's not pleasant, he was the Minister for the Civil Democratic Party. When that suspicion appeared, he accepted political responsibility and resigned. And I note that the court subsequently cleared all the actors of any charges. [[18.00 hours]] In Germany, the president even resigned after being accused of having superior relationships with a businessman. He resigned, then was liberated. In the Czech Republic, all this was demanded and declared by the current Prime Minister. And how come he doesn't act like it today? And how come he doesn't go to Andrej Babiš's case? Being a politician requires something other than being an entrepreneur with subsidies, just like Andrej Babiš did. It's not enough just to use the skills of your lawyers, hide behind their loopholes and increase profits. The politician and statesman, whom Andrej Babiš wants to be, as he says himself, also has political responsibility for his actions. And Andrej Babiš didn't prove it today. He remained at the level of the subsidy trader, and that is really little for the performance of the Minister of Finance. Therefore, for all these reasons, we would like to hear the answers to these questions from Andrej Babiš. These questions that interest the public, which appear in public debate and which are not invented by the right-wing opposition. We want answers to these specific questions: 1. Who signed the application for a grant and a solemn declaration that the Stork Nest Farm falls within the category of small and medium-sized enterprises? 2. Why was your daughter and your partner's brother on the Supervisory Board? 3. For what reason did a close associate of Václav Knotek represent the Capi nest at the general meetings? Isn't that clear evidence that the company's stork nest acted in accord with Agrofert, so it wasn't a small and medium-sized firm? 4. Why did you buy land for the farm if you didn't intend to build or own this project? 5. Why are you rejecting anonymous shares when you're hiding behind them when you're asking for a grant? 6. How is it that you use the building that was built within the Farm Capi nest as an accommodation facility as a private villa? That is six specific questions, and I think it is also a guide to what you have to answer, Minister of Finance, and I think we all heard in your speech that you still owe the answer. The most important question, however, is how the finance minister wants to level up the business environment, what he likes to talk about so often, when he cannot credibly dissuade the suspicion that he deliberately bypassed the grant terms with his company. That, ladies and gentlemen, reminds us of a famous proverb about a goat and a gardener. Mr. Finance Minister, you just can't drink wine and preach water. You can't avoid responsibility. You can't avoid this case with accusing everyone around you, everyone who was here before you, everyone around you. You have to explain the case to the stork's nest, which you haven't done so far. You can't even make excuses for a media hunt. I urge you to face up to the problems, to explain the case with confidence, to explain all the uncertainties involved. The public has every right to do that. And if you're unable to do that, the only solution I see is that you step down from your post. And I call on Prime Minister Sobotka to remember his heroic words from when he was in opposition, and if the Minister of Finance is not crediblely explaining this case, he will do so and call off the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u35	Good evening, dear colleagues. Even now, with priority rights prior to the approval of the programme, President Kalousek, followed by President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow President of the ODS has been so detailed that it has facilitated my situation and I can reduce my speech significantly. I would just like to point out, in its context, that we were prudent when, at the beginning of this meeting, before the programme was approved, we tried to explain to the President that the petitioner should say what the meeting was called for. Because if it allowed us to do that, we could have saved two hours of chatting to the Minister of Finance about what had happened here or what hadn't happened to his children and his dogs and his storks, and all that really had nothing to do with this meeting. The only thing I understand is that the evil opposition and Bakalův's media or Soukup's media are behind everything, which I want to comfort the minister that I'm sure his media and his propagandists, whether they're called Léko, Kamberský or Plesl, will set it right tomorrow, or they'll be paid for it. But I would very much like to return to what this meeting was called for. It wasn't called for us to grill the minister, as I heard this morning in the papers and on television. [[emphatically:]] We really don't intend to. He, frankly, grilled himself with his comments last week, and today he made a significant contribution to this. We don't even want to ask him questions. I admit I don't care if the anonymous stock was owned by his children or his lawyer or his mare he bought in Austria. I really don't care. The important thing, regardless of who owned the anonymous stock, is the fact that even the Minister does not deny that there was a big businessman here, and there was money for small businessmen next door. And the big businessman was looking at the money for the little businessmen, and he was drooling, and he was really hungry for it. [[feeling:]] [[Report to the O.R.]] So he just made the operation property so it wouldn't be an essero so it would be an anonymous stock deal, and the owner of the big candy store went to the candy store to get the cremroles because he couldn't resist. And now it's quite possible that it's legally okay. I stress once again that the Chamber of Deputies is not here to substitute the role of the Police of the Czech Republic or to substitute the role of Olaf. Whether or not it was a crime, whether or not the Czech Republic will have to return the money for Mr Babiš with a fine and shame, it will be decided by institutions other than the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And I'm warning you to get on with it. I don't want to ask the Minister any questions here, listen to his fantasy and try to disprove his fantasy. That's what they're different about. Here is simply a situation where the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why we have called a meeting, it is not for it to substitute the role of the Police of the Czech Republic or OLAF or the Court. The Prime Minister is right about that. Politicians are not here to substitute the role of these institutions. But the Chamber of Deputies must take a very clear position, and that is the position on the reputational risk that the Czech Republic is now facing throughout Europe. Control question, colleagues: How many countries do you think are of the European 28 whose supervisor of European subsidies is suspected and investigated for subsidy fraud? I've done the thorough research. The only one. Czech Republic. The supervisor of European subsidies, Minister of Finance, Minister responsible for the audit body of the Czech Republic - the audit authority is not independent, as Minister Dienstbier said somewhere in the media. The Audit Authority is organised as a Department of the Ministry of Finance. If we read the Ministry of Finance's organizational order, we'll find that the union is not independent. If we read the naming powers of who appoints the director of the department, we'll find that the department is not independent. The union's number 52. [[18.10 hours]] I don't know what criteria his director was selected for. The fact is, his name is Bureš. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] So Department 52, the audit authority, with Director Stanislav Bureš, is the supervisor of all European subsidies for all nine programmes from the European Union. By the end of 2012, we had delegated powers, where the Ministry of Finance had only an audit authority and in all other operational programmes the executive auditors were subject to programme managers. From 1. 1. 2013 for the dictation of the European Union, otherwise it could not be enforced, we have the audit centralised, it is under the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance is responsible for it. Now imagine, my dear colleagues, that, towards the whole of the European Union, against the entire twenty-eightth, towards the European Commission, the Czech Republic has this supervisor, this super-controller, a person who is suspected of subsidy fraud and reasonably investigated by the European Office of OLAF for subsidy fraud. And once again, I ask the control question: how many countries do you think there are in the European Union? I'm not judging right now because OLAF has to make this decision. This decision must be made by the Police of the Czech Republic, which will either pass it on or not, then by the court that condemns it or does not condemn it. But it's been years! We all know it's been years. And all those years will be Prime Minister Sobotka, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dienstbier (!) and Minister Šlechtová go to the European institutions and say: Our supervisor, our supervisor and our superauditor are therefore suspected of subsidy fraud. But we mean it honestly and honestly, comrades. And this is the only thing on which, in our opinion, the Chamber of Deputies must take a political stand. Not official. Not legal. We cannot substitute the role of law enforcement authorities or courts. However, we need to give a clear political position: Is it, or is it not tolerable for the Czech Republic, that its supervisor of European subsidies be suspicious, reasonably suspected of subsidy fraud? Is it or isn't it bearable? We have to answer that question ourselves. If the Minister were subject to the Civil Servants Act, it would be very simple. Just any minister would have put that civil servant off duty under the new Service Act, and when it was clear beyond any doubt, he would have either kicked him out or returned him to that service. None of this applies to ministers. Ministers are subject to the political responsibility of the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister must look this House in the eye and the Prime Minister must look all 27 European partners and the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Parliament's Supervisory Committee in the eye and say: it is tolerable that my European subsidy supervisor is suspected of being a subsidy fraud. Or admit that it is not a fact that is tolerable, and therefore take some measures that can hardly be taken by anyone other than the Prime Minister. We have called an emergency meeting not to push for any concrete clear solution. We don't think it's our place. We just feel obliged to protect the Czech Republic from the gigantic shame, because we believe that the Prime Minister should not tell his European partners that this is bearable. We don't think he's supposed to get that question at all. Therefore - I think it is fair before the meeting is opened - I want to tell you that I will read a very simple, I think a very non-aggressive resolution on the debate when, after consulting the leaders of the other clubs with whom we have called the meeting, I will propose to the House to ask the Prime Minister to take a measure which will result in a person suspected of subsidising fraud not being responsible for the audit authority of the Czech Republic. Nothing more, nothing less. I think that the person suspected of the subsidy fraud of the definition must not be responsible for the audit authorities of the Czech Republic. [[with emphasis]] And frankly, two years ago, if we asked anyone if you could imagine this situation, you'd all be laughing. Unimaginable that the Czech Republic would be responsible for the audit authority of the person suspected of subsidy fraud! However, it is now somewhat conceivable that the Prime Minister will or will not do so. And I think the Chamber of Deputies is here to take this political stand. Not an investigation. Not a decision. I have no reason to say that Minister Babiš is a fraud. I'll be honest with you, that's what I think. But I can't say. But I can argue that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has the right to want anyone - anyone - other than a person suspected of subsidising fraud - to be the guarantor of European subsidies. That is what I think is the minimum that this House of Deputies may want from its Prime Minister, and I will insist on wanting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u37	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now with priority rights, President Kováčik, followed by President Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, in a much shorter time than the previous speakers, to convey the position of the KSČM MEP to convene an extraordinary meeting on a subject which we have been leading, since 15.30, long, places of flame, places of personality going but in vain so far. I want to say that the statements which representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and the MP club have made in recent days and weeks to the case, respectively. on the subject, because so far the case, up to how the police, is investigating, up to how OLAF, right?, but that is not our problem, has shown that we want the House of Things to deal with, and therefore we will support the proposal for an emergency meeting, especially because there is a need to finally set clear rules here. There are many times here, even in election campaigns, there have been clear rules, the same conditions for everyone, and I don't know what everything is. But you will remember who you promised before the elections on this subject. And we're way past halftime. Meanwhile, the mountain seems to have given birth to a mouse. And what she gave birth is often very useless and payable by the pressure of some free association of God knows paid, God knows appointed, but especially strong pressure on lawmakers developing - the unelected, the unelected!, no unauthorized exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point, various... And I'm not gonna name it. We know who... [[18.20 hours]] It appears, and therefore we support the agenda for this meeting, so we encourage it to be said that there is finally a need to have clear rules, who, under what conditions and in what manner may enter politics without being suspected or suspected or without being able to accuse him of any iniquities, i.e. a conflict of interest, because then it becomes a whip or a stick that will be used once a dog is found. Finally, we need to have some serious fun, and also until the end of this parliamentary term, so that for the next parliamentary term it is, after all, more clearly that we are talking about how to set rules for the cross-border interests of political or political participation, at the same time participation in the business and participation in the media. Yes, it is not our fault that this is not set, and therefore we cannot blame anyone for doing so. I know it's a bit of a verse, but unfortunately it is. It is not true, and here I will oppose the Minister of Finance that the House has never dealt with various cases. I can only remember how the KSČM parliamentary club tried, for example. bring the Chamber of Deputies into negotiations through an extraordinary meeting of the ProMoPro case. I'm sure you remember what's going on. Now feel the conscience of who you were then ruling, how did you possibly support the agenda of the meeting so that the theme of misusing funds would even get into the discussion in the light of God? And it doesn't matter who you ruled. Basically, you didn't allow it. It's not our fault that we're still moving on the edge of the presumption of innocence, the presumption of guilt in politics or in business or anywhere else, and that's why anything can always be played out, let's say, very vaguely, and then we'll be dealing with all sorts of things here instead of working out why the voters voted for us here. It's not our fault, it's the KSČM club's fault that there has been an emergency meeting, and that there have been, now forgive me, I put it in quotes, chicken feet down, chicken feet up, thief often shouted: Catch the thief, quotes upstairs, came out empty. It's not our fault, not really. We tried, we were very active in the matter, but unfortunately, in vain. And I'm worried that right now it's gonna be because the clear rules aren't defined, the meeting's lost, and that we're gonna lose the time we're gonna spend here in vain. The KSČM, and this is, say, the conclusion of my short speech, has long argued, and it is a documented expression here in the House, media outputs, etc., that simply politics and, in particular, executive policy is a full-time job that needs to be done with 100% or even more commitment, and that therefore there is no room for one to be realized elsewhere. I know it's pretty hard, maybe it's limiting the sense of justice, but we just think it's true. After all, recent conjecture about whether the same person here in that party may exercise the mandate of a Member and a Governor and Deputy Governor, and that is only within the framework of politics, isn't it?, controllable. It's called transparent or transparent. It is also not so long ago that this theme has moved some political parties here. And now the link between the policy and the business and the media is far less controllable, but it's not our fault that the mechanisms aren't. If this meeting were to have a single outcome, and that more politicians in this House realize that finally it is necessary to set clear rules no matter what various civic associations in quotation marks advise us to do - I didn't sign any promises before the elections, to which I was quite unchoosy in a way, like many of you others, forced, I just think that these things are in the KSČM program and that there is no need for us to sign any more promises that we will make something. But let's take this seriously, let's start doing this in a way that makes the next term more clear. Therefore, the KSČM parliamentary club will support the programme, i.e. the draft agenda of the meeting, which, let's say, begins right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u39	Thank you to President Kováčik. So far, the last with priority rights prior to the approval of the agenda, Mr. Chairman of the Dawn Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u40	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. There have been a lot of words here, we've learned a lot about the government, I'd just add to the influence of subsidies, the political influence of subsidies, because I think it's not negligible. Today, subsidies have become something that the European Union is buying the loyalty of the governments of the Member States. Yes, subsidies distort the market environment, and the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, especially at the time of today's security threat, is twice as dangerous. Ekonom Pavel Kohout, who was attracted by Minister Babiš to YES and who compiled the economic program of Dawn, recently said that subsidies are evil that destroys the Czech Republic. Pavel Kohout spoke above all about the economic and corruption environment in which subsidies have an adverse effect. And it's true, it's true, and we're witnessing it now. We have heard from the Minister how successful the government is, how it does not increase taxes. But Minister, we are talking about a case that has not only been cheated by the Czech media and where unfortunately several times it has appeared in the statement that it is only CZK 50 million. In quotation marks only CZK 50 million, because CZK 50 million is a huge sum. And even if it were 50 crowns, it's definitely worth investigating. You're right, there's a lot of other cases that need to be investigated, whether it's the case of OKD, which is connected to Prime Minister Sobotka and which can deprive thousands of people of their jobs and where billions of crowns have been destroyed. Or the illegal payment of billions to solar barons, as you yourself called these people. You're right. And it seemed to me - I'd like to say smiley, but it's not smiling. You're saying who pays billions to solar barons. After all, it was your government and your MPs who voted for the illegal payment of billions. Do you remember that, Minister Babiš? How many hours Dawn spent here at the counter when we proposed novels and tried to convince you not to make this payment. Remember? So why did your Members and you vote in favour when you say today that this is a case that needs to be investigated? And we agree with you. It is CZK 43 billion a year. You listed cases worth investigating. I would therefore like to ask why this is not a case of D47, a commission which has been proposed here for more than a year, and for more than a year the Chamber of Deputies has not been able to elect the President, whoever he is, the President, to start investigating this matter. I don't understand it either. You've been talking about what needs to be done. You're right. So why hasn't the territoriality of the executors been discussed? At present, everyone knows that executors are crushing people's lives, and there is a need to do something systematic about it, not just changes that do nothing in the finals. You were talking about public media. Minister, I can assure you that Dawn has great miserable experience with the public media, when our actions are distorted, when we must and we are trying to fight through to gain at least a little space. And we will be presenting a law on the public media across the House, and I therefore firmly believe that you will join this and that your Members will vote in favour. [[18.30 hours]] I ask why hundreds of thousands of dollars a month are paid on behalf of managers and directors of state firms. Why do they get golden parachutes when they're done? That is the money that Minister Babiš should focus on, that should be the case, and I have not yet seen such a thing happen. When you say how you care about people, why haven't pensions been raised to this day, when the pension went up, but a minimum amount? Why don't nurses, police, firefighters raise their salaries? I think there is also a need to take a systemic step in this regard, and it is up to you. You're the government, and you have the chance, so do it! Raise people's pensions! Not to give them a one-time allowance. You were talking here, Minister, about a serious migration crisis and impotent politicians, but you yourself said in the summer that we need migrants. You said yourself that the Czech Republic will not defend itself by suing the European Court of Justice because we would lose our subsidies. Your party voted yesterday after a crazy attack in Brussels against the Dawn proposal for a resolution to protect the citizens of the Czech Republic. It is your government and Prime Minister Sobotka, who will agree without fail visa-free relations with Turkey, mandatory quotas, the renewal of Turkey's accession talks to the EU. Why didn't you support our request to allocate funds to recruit 3,000 police officers? There's a lot of questions. You spoke to the citizens, and I will speak to them at dawn, too, because we want the elderly to really raise their pensions, and not by 40 crowns, but by more money. These people work, pay taxes, and have the right to a peaceful life. We want the disabled not to have to ask for a contribution just because they weren't so lucky in life, and I'm talking, now, at this point, from their own experience, from family experience. I know what it means to the committee where people are telling you, but there's nothing wrong with that person, he still has one hand, so he can still work, he doesn't need contributions. And that's reality. My colleague is looking at me a little strange right now, but that's reality. [[The person in question is surprised.]] But I've been there. I did! And why don't you do more for businessmen? Why is it not done more to avoid being so burdened by bureaucracy? As my colleague Lank says, the Minister is doing a two-hour commercial on the Capi Nest, inviting people, not belonging to the farm because he wrote it on his children, and everyone is unfairly evil on him. And now we're going to talk about who's actually more evil. We certainly don't want to be mean. We take that as a point that needs to be investigated, and it doesn't matter if it's Mr. Babiš. It's not our fight against one person. It doesn't matter who it is, but this case needs to be investigated. And in the meantime, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense are telling us that some House resolutions regarding the deal with Turk are entirely up to... Brussels. We'll take that as a mockery. And our colleague had quite an interesting suggestion that when Minister Babiš here invited to the Cape Nest, it would be good if we agreed and suggested that seniors would ride the Cape Nest, that there would be disabled people, miners, people who were taken away by the executors in the unauthorized execution of the roof over their heads, simply to enjoy the Capi Nest. We will watch very closely how the Chapi Nest case will end, how the police and Olaf investigations will end. And the reason I repeat why we joined this meeting is because we are talking about living in a legal state and demanding justice. And the rule of law and justice is supposed to pay - or not to pay, she has to pay for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, this is úsvit's opinion. That is why we have joined this meeting. We want people to do better, and we all made a promise to act in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic, all citizens of the Czech Republic, and we want to do that. I think this case is definitely worth investigating. In addition, we have heard that the Cape Nest is in the loss of 141 million in two years, so I hope that Minister Babiš will not be able to manage in this way at the Ministry of Finance, but that is another matter. We really care about justice. It is not a fight against one person, it is a fight for justice and I think that every politician is obliged to act in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic and in favour of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-000-000.u41	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. We will now vote on the proposal for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. [[It's been waiting for a while.]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of approving the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing, should raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 7, 148 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against 9. The motion has been approved. So we're going to approach the only item on the show that's
