ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u1	261. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations It's going to be a little complicated because of the present, virtually. The absence of government members, but we can begin. The first intervention, which is interrupted, is the interpellation of a Member of Zdeněk Ondráček in the case of foster care in the Czech Republic. It is the House Press 814 and it is an interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, who is present. So we can start discussing it. As this is a suspended interpelation, I will ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček in an open debate to comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I present to you today with a view to finishing the interpellation, which is over six months old. Six months later, the secretary didn't have the courage to come here and we could discuss the interview, so today I'd like to thank her for finally finding the courage, coming in, and today we can discuss the interview. Unfortunately, the number of Members here in the Chamber of Deputies does not give me the opportunity to vote, because there are only 52 of us registered here, but it will be enough for us to discuss. Madam Secretary, thank you for finding the courage after six months and coming to the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday morning. We can have the interpellation I gave you in March of this year to discuss. The Interpolation I gave to the Minister came out only after we had discussed a specific case of foster care for several months, when the Minister promised me several times that the matter would be dealt with. With the end of a few months when nothing happened, I finally took advantage of the Institute of written interpelations, and in March of this year I turned to the Minister to provide me with information on foster care in the Czech Republic and one specific case. You must know that we are dealing with foster care here, and there are a number of colleagues and a few colleagues who are closely following the subject, and there are several cases. I got a case that's right out of my city, and I know both foster parents very well. I know that in 2005, before 2005, two children of the deceased foster sister were raised in foster care. Then, in 2005, they took another boy into foster care. After a mature consideration, these couples decided in July 2013 - I beg you to know how foster care works, which we can talk about so beautifully here, so try to track the data -- that means more than three years ago, these couples decided after mature consideration and asked for a second child to be entrusted to foster care. After relatively fast management of their application, which lasted only 367 days - 367 days! - they were told by the Regional Authority in Hradec Králové that they could not take another child into foster care, even though it was said that they were a very well-functioning foster family with the necessary skills and qualities to care for the child entrusted to them, but they were raising a child that they took in 2005 and that they needed to devote all their energy to raising this boy. This boy has no major educational problems, he's a normal growing teenage boy, he's alive, he's got average results at school, he doesn't have a reduced degree of behavior, he's into sports, hockey, which isn't exactly a cheap hobby, and his foster parents pay him. So after a year in which the regional authority did not entrust this family with another child, they filed an appeal against it that went to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs within the "short period" when the application was submitted in August 2014, at the beginning of the month, so within a short period of 20 April 2015, in six months - so our Ministry works! - decided and annulled the Regional Authority's decision. It even said that the decision was unlawful. [[9.10 hours]] Parents kept waiting and looking for a suitable child. A suitable child was found on their own, unfortunately they were never allowed to take the child they had found into foster care. In this particular case, I asked the Minister a few questions in this particular case and asked her whether the procedure described by the administrative authorities was okay and the period for which a decision was given by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that is to say, a total period of more than two years, is appropriate for such a decision. I have asked how many children are currently waiting for some form of foster family care and what is the average length of processing of the application for the mediation of foster care in the Czech Republic. I don't think I asked for anything essential that couldn't be answered, and it's a specific matter. You know, the secretary told me that she couldn't handle a specific matter with me, and in reply she told me what the law was, how the law was to be, how the law was to be followed and what the applicant was to do, in general theoretical terms, nothing without a specific solution to the case. It's about as if I were to interpel to even today present - now, currently absent - Minister of Culture Herman and he asked me to protect a particular cultural monument and he would answer me that cultural monuments are protected by the law, such a poppy tree, and he didn't really care whether the particular cultural monument falls tomorrow or doesn't fall. So I am, and I think quite rightly, didn't get the answer to that one particular case. The Minister sent me the answer on April 29th. Today is more than half of October, I finally have the opportunity to come here before you and deal with this particular case. In the meantime, of course, events have evolved, which is, of course, right, but not thanks to the Ministry, because it didn't lift a finger in the matter, but because the parents were looking for their own child and eventually managed to find the child. In the Karlovy Vary Region, there has been a situation where I think the Regional Authority is essentially advertising what free children are, who are interested in them. These foster parents have been looking for a son or a boy, Lukas, who I think is seven and a half years old today, who has been single for over three years and could be placed in foster care. Unfortunately, he had to be in the institution for three years, because the authorities either on the edge or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is essentially not interested in children not being in the institutions to be in foster care, and they are looking for substitute problems to make things work. Madam Secretary, you're very weak to perform your duties because you can't fix this either. You can only talk about her beautifully. I will request the rejection of this interpelation because you have not answered my questions at all, and you have merely stated the dry, dry provisions of the law. Thank you. I can read, and I read the law before I gave it to you. So when I can make a suggestion, I'm gonna ask you to refuse your answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u3	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate. I will also state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec from 9 to 10 o'clock by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and Mr Jaroslav Borka from 14.30 to 19 o'clock for personal reasons. Now the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u4	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members, well, I really consider it quite inappropriate to compare a case involving specific foster parents and specific children to repair cultural monuments, because the cultural monument is an inanimate thing and I can discuss here the details of what bricks I will use, what bags I will use, and it does not matter. But with those cases involving children, there's very strict silence, and I think it's right, because we're here to protect those families and not, with all due respect, to discuss some details here in front of the forum of many people. I can't, I can't, I can't, I'd break the law. And actually, the MP, whatever, it doesn't matter, is a third person who's out of the family, and I really, even if I wanted to, can't discuss the details. And otherwise, about the process in general. Just because someone has already raised or raised children in foster care and care for these children is okay doesn't mean that the next child is to be added to the family. Each such thing is judged very individually and very strictly. And I must say that, therefore, at the KSČM club, you should clarify what you want, because I was actually glad to hear from the Member's mouth that he does not want the children to stay in the institutions and wants them to be much more in foster care. Well, I think so, too. However, on almost every committee on social policy, we are faced primarily by the KSČM MPs with constant attack, where we listen to how bad foster care is, as is known a lot of cases that are problematic, and how great our constitutions are. Which, when I'm always trying to get these specific cases so we can investigate them, I've always been unsuccessful, I haven't gotten one yet. So please just understand whether you continue to support the institutional care which, I say, we repeatedly hear from your fellow Members that they are great and the best here and that foster care is bad, or if, as a club, you rather support the opposite. Well, I'm all for the opposite. But I repeat, every new kid who goes into that family is judged individually, works with those kids who are already in that family, and we're actually very careful that the family isn't overloaded. In fact, the law limits the number of children to be in foster care today, precisely so that the family endures the burden, because the priority is that when a child comes into that family, it stays there, so that it doesn't happen that the family suddenly collapses, and the child wouldn't have to go back to the institution, which, of course, is a complete disaster for him. And other than that, the mediation just takes place on the edge. The ministry itself doesn't mediate, let me get this straight. We can, of course, then check whether the administrative procedure was okay or not, but I don't mediate any children at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u5	Thank you, Minister Marksová. Now in the debate, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u6	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Madam Secretary, you really haven't failed. You know the problem with the laute... nothing, and unfortunately not about this particular thing either. Because if you're talking about the number of children, there's one child in this family. One kid who's 13 years old. The first children they took after their deceased sister are adult children who already have their own families and live outside. That means, if the family that raised two children today has a third child, who is 14, 15 years old, is such a family under-tested for you? And for three years, you've been talking about something that needs to be dealt with, and you're wondering if a family like that where a father is educated, a mother has a high school education, he has a special education pedagogy, and he works in a child education institution, so if such a family is appropriate. You're talking about how many kids are supposed to be. Yes. We're fighting transitional foster care, where the kid goes for a year, and if he creates some kind of social bond, you're gonna put him back in the foster home again. It's important to you that those kids are in foster homes so that you have a job so that you can have those kids there and you can take money for them. I will read to you the opinion of the Social Affairs Officer of the Hradec Králové Region, who says: "We do not currently have a suitable child in the register to provide foster care. And unfortunately, I cannot say what the indicative waiting time will be, since children are reported according to need." So the Hradec Králové Region, the Hradec Králové Region does not have one single child suitable for being entrusted to foster care. And the Karlovy Vary Region advertises and has hundreds of children they want to entrust to foster care. So unify whether it works the same way on the edges, or whether one region is not burdened by having hundreds of children, and there is not one child on another region, because it is not true, even in the Hradec Králové Region there are suitable children, but you have just decided, now I don't mean the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you just decided not to give the child to this particular family. When they found it themselves in the Karlovy Vary region, they brought the baby, they had it at home for six months, and suddenly the problem passed away. You're just messing with these kids! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u7	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. I'm asking who's still reporting for the debate. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I came later, but I have to get involved in this debate because the Minister here spoke about the fact that the KSČM MPs, members of the Social Committee, are against foster care. We never said we were against foster care. We just want the system to work as it is now, and not to constantly favour foster care, namely short-term or professional foster care, given that the system that is set up in the Czech Republic, and I stand by it, is set up very well. What Mr Ondráček was talking about here. Each region has its own system, or of course it's integrated, but each region really treats it a little differently, both the foster care and so on. We in the Ústí Region really took this seriously and I must say that we are trying to keep our foster parents under our supervision so that we can have the best care so that we can have the best foster parents. And I also have to say here that it is true that it should always be (?) being a kid and a kid picking a foster kid. Unfortunately, in the whole Czech Republic, it really does not treat it the same way and not always as correct. And we know about the regions where this is really happening - now the Minister will not like it, but it is so - very into non-profit sectors that are not to the extent possible to have the supervision that is needed by the Regional Authority. Mr Ondráček may well have also said that children should be at least one year in the case of professional foster parents, and until then the interest of the OSPODs and relevant organizations should be, in order for the child to have long-term care, that is, either to go back to his parents, if possible, or to find a long-term foster parent, or - I think that adoption is probably best for the child. Unfortunately, I also have to say that even some of the OSPODs, whether regional or lower levels, do not work as they should, although I stand for some of them. And sometimes they really go beyond their powers, and I think that they should also advance on how they make decisions and how they approach in the best interest of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u9	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I will therefore ask my colleague Ondráček to make a motion for a resolution under the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, as I have announced, I cannot agree with an answer that answers a specific question as to what the wording of the law is. I have been given the power of attorney from my parents to deal with this matter, so I expect that I can also get sufficient information. It's not about the answer, it doesn't have to be discussed anywhere, and I haven't mentioned a single name to the applicants or anyone else. Instead of protecting your parents adequately, protect your children. Protect children, and give them the opportunity to grow up in long-term foster care. So I ask that the Chamber of Deputies reject your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u11	Thank you. We will therefore vote under the Rules of Procedure Act by voting number 100, if we comply with Mr Ondráček and with the resolution we ask the Minister for a new answer, stating that Mr Ondráček does not agree with the answer. There are plenty of people present. I have begun voting number 100 and I ask who is in favour of refusing the Minister's reply? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100. Of the 81 Members present for 23, against 26. The motion has not been accepted, and that concludes the interview. Another intervention is the interpellation of Mr Petr Bendl to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Since he is absent and we already have a resolution on this matter, the discussion of this answer was interrupted by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, so he remains suspended because Minister Jurečka is excused for the whole day. The same situation is in my interview with Prime Minister, press 864, because it was discussed and interrupted because of 11 o'clock. And he remains interrupted because the Prime Minister... I will, for sure, because it was interrupted because of the 11th hour, not because of the present, so I will ask the House to interrupt the presence of the Prime Minister to continue to interrupt the interpellation under House press 864. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this interpelation into the presence of the Prime Minister? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 101. Of the 80 Members present for 64, against no one. So this interpelation is interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Interpelation along with response is presented as press 865, but here we are in a different situation. I'll just check my apologies for today's meeting day... And Mr Stanjura's colleague is not here, he is not excused, so there is nothing left but that this interpellation is failing for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's absence, so her discussion is closed. [[9.30 hours]] Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Ivan Adamec to the Prime Minister, with the Prime Minister absent and Mr Adamec duly excused. I am therefore obliged to say that this reply to the written interpelation is also failing in the absence of Mr Ivan Adamec, and the negotiations on this interpelation are concluded. We also have Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's intervention on the Prime Minister, who is excused. This interpellation has not yet been discussed. The Prime Minister is duly excused. I am asking Mr Grebeníček what he is proposing. He proposes to interrupt the presence of the Prime Minister. I'll put it to a vote. The vote number 102 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting the presence of the Prime Minister. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102. Of the present 83, for 66, against no one. This interpelation has also been interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr František Adámek to the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. It's printing 889. I am opening the debate to which Mr František Adámek is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u12	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the Government, Mr Minister. When I prepared a written interview under number 961 to finance music festivals in the Czech Republic, believe that I was not easy. It's not normal to interpel your coalition minister. Believe me, I could say a desperate step has forced nearly three years of communication with some of your ministry officials. Minister, I just don't want to and won't assist in how your ministry is slowly destroying music festivals with 52 years of history. Ludwig van Beethoven Music Festival in Teplice, or the 37-year festival Smetana Days in Pilsen, or the 25-year festival in Český Krumlov and other important festivals. I don't know about you, but I consider this government to be my government and prime minister. And that's why I wrote this interview. I'm very sorry that you didn't understand my motives and motives. What am I judging from? From how your answer, Minister, is conceived. Dear Minister, I must strongly reject the tone, arrogance, instruction and speculation of my education, which your answer is full of. Dear Minister, if we weren't on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and I didn't respect you, I would use a famous saying that we didn't feed the geese together. And now, in a matter of fact, to the content of your answer. Dear Minister, your response to my interpellation has forced me to examine the arguments you put forward even more. First to evaluate the commission and its cast. The results of the first round of evaluation of applications for grants in the field of music. The easiest proof of the Commission's bias is the difference in the scores of individual members. Some festivals show a whole range of one to ten points. For example Bohuslav Martinů's Days, Music Summer in Lake and others. It means that a member who has awarded one point considers the festival to be completely worthless, on the other hand, he considers the same festival to be absolutely top-notch. You've written to me about how professionally erudite your commission is. Such a difference between true experts who would evaluate the festival according to predetermined criteria cannot simply arise. The only explanation is bias, preference of a close type of music, relatedness with evaluated festivals, whether in an organizational or artistic area. The preference of certain types of music is quite obvious from the results. More points get festivals closely focused on modern or old music. The notification of the subsidy procedure shall include information that the projects will be evaluated in the form of scoring according to substantive criteria. Let me remind you of them. Benefits for the field, high artistic or professional level, artistic creativity and so on. The contribution of the project in terms of preserving and developing artistic diversity. A contribution to creativity and innovation. Geographical scope. The requirement of super-regional, national or international importance. Content processing of the project, clear formulation of content and objectives, compliance with the declared heading, specific implementation plans, personnel security, timetable of the project. Ability to provide multi-source funding, public budgets, private resources. Reality of the project, including the adequacy of costs, the ability of the applicant to implement the project, the effectiveness and legitimacy of the use of the Ministry of Culture subsidy in the previous period, including compliance with the date of its billing. While the contents of the first three criteria cannot be clearly explained or evaluated, and after all, everyone will evaluate them according to their vision of the world, the remaining six are measurable, objectively enumerable, verifiable, gaining two values - met, not met. The organizer of a traditional festival operating for decades in a given region can hardly be considered unable to provide multi-source financing as an incompetent festival. If they have already received a grant many times, they cannot be suspected that they would not be able to properly fill out the application and bill the grant. Such a festival with a clear fulfilment of six of the nine criteria cannot be evaluated by one or two points. However, there are similar examples in the scores table. However, according to the evaluation of previous years, I found that the number of points gained in the first round was not very important for the amount of the subsidy allocated. No algorithm, system, mathematical formula derived from the number of points obtained can be traced in the calculation of the subsidy. I do not know what practical algorithm Professor Medek created. In 2015, he received the highest score of the new music festival Ostrava Days 2015, but in the second round he received neither the highest amount nor the highest percentage of his demands from his budget was revealed. The highest amount and the highest percentage of coverage of the requirements was obtained by the Prague Spring, which was in the point evaluation up to the tenth. The highest percentage of the budget was won by the Music Summer Festival Kuks 2015 located on the 21st place. The same was true in previous years. In the second round, the Commission allocates subsidies at its own discretion and does not follow its assessment in the first round. If a system cannot be found in the evaluation of the grant commission, i.e. a rational explanation of the points and subsidies allocated above, the path to irrational, desperate explanation, humanly unhappy and damaging not only the personality of the commission, but the entire cultural public is opened. Then it cannot be noticed that festivals with their representatives on the committee have clearly better results. For example, this year's Janáčkův May jump from 19th place in 2015 to this year's fifth place when the festival director became a member of the commission. I've come to the conclusion that there's no point in finding out the relationship between the members of the committee and comparing the results. It makes no sense like the whole system of alleged grant artistic commissions. In a small space of Czech culture, infinite amounts of ties can be arranged because, in fact, they all work together somehow and they are all connected somehow. The value of music has no one's right to judge according to their personal taste. Only transparent assessments according to objective, unambiguously identified measurable criteria have a purpose. [[9.40 hours]] However, if you still believe that the Music Summer Festival in Jezeří is more important for this state than the 52nd year of the Ludwig van Beethoven Music Festival in Teplice or the 37th year of the Smetana Days Music Festival in Pilsen or the 25th year of the International Music Festival Český Krumlov and other important festivals in this country, then we really do not understand each other. We also do not understand the fact that you say that funding in 2015 festivals was extraordinary, even though you had 96 million more year-on-year live art and the budget of the entire ministry was higher by more than 1.4 billion. Your subsequent argument about the lack of workers, when you say that you have only one reporter for 280 applicants for subsidies, is not an argument for me, but is rather a guilty bad result of the Ministry of Culture's activities. I would like to quote from your reply: Your other demands, which would prolong the Commission's negotiations on multiples of time, verbal justification of the Commission's decisions, payment of subsidies within a month of the announcement of the results of the public procedure, unfortunately, indicate that you are not orienting or moving in live grant practice, as the current practical conditions of the Ministry of Culture allow it. [[Public hearing]] Within the framework of the rules as laid down by the Minister's order within the limits of financial remuneration for commissions due to the utilization of the members of the commission and in a situation where the entire musical area, i.e. subsidy service, 280 recipients in the entire professional musical area of the classic and partial field are managed by a single official, your requirements are still unrealistic. So many quotes. I'm glad you're at least working on improvement. How long, Minister? Three years? Let me quote you from the principles of government for granting subsidies from the state budget of the Czech Republic to non-state non-profit organizations by central government bodies. Approved by the Government Resolution of 1 February 2010, No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Council Regulation (EEC) No 479, and Government Resolution of 6 August 2014, No 479, 657. This subsidy may be granted under point 7 (a) of the Guidelines. 8 provide these principles to others - I quote - to legal persons whose main purpose is the provision of health, cultural, educational and social services in particular. I quote: The subsidy is granted by the central authority to which the application submitted belongs in substance. Deadline for receipt of requests from the first, so-called The basic round of the selection procedure shall normally be determined by the central authority by 30 September of the calendar year preceding the financial year in which the requested subsidy may be granted. The central authority which provides grants to non-profit organisations will publish on its website - I stress - by the end of the calendar year preceding the financial year for which it provides the subsidy, a list or order of success of applications successfully passed through the selection grant procedure. [[correctly: grants on request]] Allow me another quote from you: Mr. Ambassador, you ask why, according to available information, the Ministry of Culture in a number of cases no recipient, theatre or gallery until 31. It shall not send at least 50 per cent of the funds in a given year. There are basically two reasons. The first is the number of beneficiaries, respectively. applicants, in the order of hundreds compared to the number of civil servants who carry out the grant agenda in the field of professional art and the Ministry of Culture in the order of units. The second reason is that the subsidy can only be granted to the applicant if the Ministry of Culture has proof that the decision to grant the subsidy has taken legal power. End of quote. Further on, Minister, you are throwing a change in the sections in an effort not to have to admit that you simply do not respect the above-mentioned principles of government. Further quotations from government principles, point 8: The central authority which grants the subsidy on request shall pay it, on the basis of a final decision, not later than 31 March of the financial year, if the applicant meets the conditions for granting the State subsidy by that date. As a rule, the subsidy is paid on a one-off basis. If the subsidy is granted in instalments on the basis of an application selected in the first round of the selection procedure, it shall be paid in two instalments. At least half of the total amount of the subsidy shall be released by the central authority by 31 March of the financial year for which the subsidy is granted. The second part of the total amount of the subsidy shall be released by the central authority not later than 30 September of the financial year for which the subsidy is granted. Point 9. The central authority which grants the subsidy on request shall be fully responsible for verifying its legal personality. Dear Minister, I will not forgive you for quoting me once more. I think this sentence is really smiling in the sense of the above. Quote: Member, I am in a hurry to assure you that the local authority respects the rules for granting subsidies to non-state non-profit organisations, as set out in the Government's resolution. Dear Minister, in your reply you further tell me that you can only take into account the opinion of the subcommittee and the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies or the opinion of the Association of Regions, but you cannot consider it a binding basis for the Ministry of Culture's activities. I would therefore like you to explain here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, to me and our colleagues why you are at the meeting both on the subcommittee on culture and on the Committee on Science, Research, Education, Culture and Sports, clearly supporting our parliamentary proposal, which we have consulted with you in the subsequent resolutions, so that you will then act completely contrary to these resolutions. My concern about the major problems of some festivals is certainly reasonable, because you too must have noticed a significant reduction in the number of concerts and other expenses as soon as you informed them of your decision. Finally, I want to and must correct my claims on Mr. Ivo Medek. I want to apologize to him when I used the term "educated mathematician." I apologize to him. After all, I told him personally. However, in his claim that in my discussion period, i.e. 2015, he was chairman of the Grant Commission, I was right. I was coming out of the Ministry of Culture's website. Unless you're telling the truth on your website. Finally, let me say that your answer, Minister, is in the spirit of Mr Donutil's famous programme. Ask me anything you want, and I'll answer anything I want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u13	I thank Mr František Adámek. The Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, is reporting for the debate. Before I give you my word, Minister, I'm stating new apologies. First Mr Pavel Šrámek until 10:30 pm, then Mr Jakubčík from 10.00 for working reasons, Mr Vozka between 14.30 and 19.00 pm, Mr Benešík from 9.30 to 10.30 pm and Mr Michal Kučera from today's meeting due to illness. And I am of the opinion that my colleague Karamazov is voting today with a replacement card 69. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Ambassador. First of all, I must clearly reject the arguments you have put forward here. Grant management in the music field works very well and efficiently at the Ministry of Culture. The system has been decimated to the smallest detail over the years, complaints are in the order of promile and still from the same subjects, i.e. large festivals of classical music with large budgets. Over the last three years, the number of musical applications for grants has increased by 40 percent, and we must therefore appeal more than before to the quality of projects seeking funding from state money. For this purpose, the evaluation of the 11-member expert committee on classical music, which is regularly and consistently amended in accordance with the validity of the mandate. The expert opinions of the commission, which points secretly, are nevertheless consistent for many years in the opinion of a couple of festivals, which are mainly in complaints, i.e. the Czech Touches of Music and the Český Krumlov Festival. In other words, in the traceable history of the grant procedure since 2007, these festivals regularly end up in the table of results of the grant competition on the lowest floors. For example, this year they ended up in the 60s, respectively. 52nd of 75 places in the festival theme area. [[9.50 hours]] If one or the applicant is or is not a member of such a professional association, he shall have no influence on the decision-making of the grant commission. All attempts to challenge the competence or bias of the commission can be very easily refuted. The Commission shall be independent and highly competent. Its members do not act according to projects in which there is a conflict of interest. There is no legal right to a State grant, as provided for in Section 14 (1) of the Guidelines. 1 of Law No. 218/2000 Coll., budgetary rules. The absolute exceptional situation of 2015, i.e. 100% support for selected festivals would be unsustainable in terms of the distribution of public funds regardless of the quality of the projects. The Ministry of Culture is governed by Section 21 of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., Constitutional Laws, Laws and Resolutions of the Government. The opinion of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic or its subcommittee or the opinion of the Association of Regions cannot be considered as a binding basis for the activities of the Ministry of Culture. Here I refer to the SAO's findings No. 14/10, which drew attention to the subsidy failure of providing support on the basis of political incentives and interventions. The fact that the applicant has contacts on the political scene cannot be an order for our office to pay hundreds of thousands or millions of subsidies to projects regardless of their quality. It is and will be the main criterion for us. We intend to have the professional opinion of our advisory bodies when financing so-called. live cultures will continue to rely primarily on and, however well-intentioned lay opinions and political interventions, we will only take into account. And now I want to touch what you have named in connection with communication with the officials of our Ministry of Culture. I've never talked about it publicly before, but you've challenged me to do it yourself. The communication seemed that I have rarely been subjected to as much pressure as the pressure on your part, even to the appeal of the coalition deputy, doktorka Kalistová, Deputy Minister for Social Democracy. The pressure was so great that I had to inform the Prime Minister of the government, whom I was a member to inform the coalition deputy, whose work I was very satisfied with, protected and defended against the attacks of a social democratic Member. That's how it is, Mr. Ambassador. I remember it well, and I have witnesses. So I completely reject the manners that you have put in place here. I stand by the quality of my people, the quality of my work, and I reject any political pressure that I encounter on your part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u15	That was Minister Daniel Herman. Now, my colleague František Adámek, further in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u16	Colleagues, colleagues, I like to take advantage of the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure to comment on what has been said here. I think it's a matter of fact first. Minister Herman talks about grant artistic commissions. Please, those are such big words. I know what grant management is. I know it needs to be identified in Brussels. I graduated from this procedure. What the Minister here refers to as grant artistic commissions is, please, common advisory bodies of the Minister are in quotation marks. Because the procedure that's going on isn't a grant procedure like I wrote in my original interpelation, after all. The answer, except for the conclusion given to me by the Minister, was de facto just a quote from the original answer to my original interpelation. At least I didn't hear any position on the relevant part I was talking about. Again, it was a mistake to make sure that everything was okay, that we were sticking to the law, to respond to my quote, that there was at least one government resolution, and more. However, in fact, as far as the big festivals that the Minister has been talking about are concerned, and it connects me with at least two of these festivals, although frankly, I would like to refresh your memory, Minister, when you call it that. I've been lobbying for at least three festivals. At least three, which, let's say, from the first five biggest festivals there are at least two or three. This does not happen to mention when there are complaints about the big festivals, that they are needed for these big festivals, as well as, after all, the subcommittee on culture and the large committee on education, science, education proposed and proposed, i.e. totally different rules for big festivals, which are undoubtedly governed by a different way of financing, organizations etc., than for - and I put it in quotes - small festivals, because no festival from the point of view of its reach is small. I know that the government has adopted a programme that is, say, a partial that your ministry has processed, and I have been involved in his comments, I would say quite factually, with Deputy Minister Kalistová. And it was adopted by a partial hybrid based on those two different opinions on the financing of living art, especially music festivals. And unfortunately, as I have seen the outline, or better said, of the Ministry of Culture's budget, so this promulgated and promised program, which is supposed to solve these problems that we are talking about, is essentially not going to be launched, because the program says that if there isn't 100 million, then the Ministry doesn't have to let it go. And you're currently proposing $45 million there, so it's probably just a decoy. And now let me express myself - I have to comment - on that conclusion. If, Minister, you consider the debate on this subject that I am talking about, i.e. financing of major music festivals - several of my colleagues have spoken about this topic over the last three years, whether it was from the opposition or from the coalition, I recall a few names, Mr Kalousek, Mr Stanjura and other colleagues, as well as from the ANO movement - and the debate on this subject with you, because this section is run by the Deputy Minister, and I have always been critical and, as you say, I have also informed the Prime Minister of my critical views on, say, the philosophical one in quotation marks, I apologize to all philosophers, the philosophical approach to financing this sector, to this part of living art, i.e. The festival, if this is what I said here, if you consider it pressure to appeal to Deputy Minister Kalistová, then we really didn't understand each other, as we don't understand each other in other ways, after all. Never, and you can have ten witnesses, I never asked you to call off Deputy Secretary Kalistová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u17	I thank Mr František Adámek. The Minister is still reporting for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u18	Thank you. I just have to repeat what I said a moment ago that I reject the arguments that are false, which Mr Adámek has made here, and I stand fully behind the professionalism and quality of the Ministry of Culture's staff. I am only surprised by the degree of deviation from reality and from truth in what you have completed this speech. According to the Deputy Minister, she was little bit observant and little obedient, so you asked me, along with some of the representatives of some of the big festivals, to call her off. I said no. And precisely because the pressure was so great and unacceptable to me, I had to inform the Prime Minister. It is very sad that, as a coalition MP, you are putting the government in such a bad light. And who among us speaks the truth, let colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies respond by their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u19	Mr Adámek is now reporting, then Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u20	Minister, I do not want this response and discussion to turn into some personal dispute between you and me. I respect you - and I would like to stress this - in many ways for last and other acts. That's what I need to say. Anyway, and I don't want to burden my colleagues, but since we're playing the truth, I'm gonna say something that you asked me to do. You asked me to help you with the Deputy Prime Minister because you had problems with her at first when she replaced her predecessor. Well, now that we're playing the truth, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Vladimír Koníček in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a review conclusion of 14/10 has been recalled here. The Audit Committee hasn't discussed it yet, but I'll try to quote some of the sentences from this audit conclusion that concerns the funds of the state budget intended to support cultural activities from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture. For example, the audit conclusion concludes: "The provision of grants for cultural activities and the promotion of important and exceptional cultural events in the Ministry of Culture was unsystematic. The Ministry of Culture did not conduct individual trade unions and separate departments methodically, as a result the departments of the Ministry of Culture did not act uniformly, especially in keeping records of applicants and subsidies, in providing subsidies and in conducting the file service. In the audited period, the Ministry of Culture did not have its own single and comprehensive records of applicants and recipients of subsidies from its budget chapter. It created unequal conditions for applicants for grant in the audited period. The Ministry has laid down rules for granting subsidies which, in some cases, did not follow." It's just a few quotes from the audit conclusion of what it looked like at the Ministry of Culture with subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u23	I thank Mr Vladimír Koníček. František Adámek continues to report to the debate. Then Minister Herman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u24	I'm more of a matter of fact. I would like to propose a resolution for the House which would read: "The House rejects the reply of the Minister of Culture Herman to Mr Adámek's interpelation, the House Press 889." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u25	Thank you. After the debate, I would call on you to make a proposal. Please, Minister Herman. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleague Koníček for quoting the SAO's findings here, because he actually pointed out some of the vices that have happened in the past, as the Member quoted precisely, in the past time. And that's why I said that over the last three years, the number of music requests for funding has increased by 40 percent. That is why we need to appeal more than before to the quality of the projects. And the important thing that that finding said, or what it pointed out, was that subsidy disorder providing support on the basis of political incentives and interventions. And I've put an end to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u27	If no one signs up for debate, I am done with the debate. In the debate, Mr František Adámek's proposal, which envisages the Act on Rules of Procedure, is that the Chamber of Deputies will agree or disagree with Minister Herman's reply to Mr František Adámek's interpelation. Before we vote, I'll have you all checked out. [[There were over 80 people present on the board, and there are only a few Members in the benches.]] I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in the vote. I'm gonna go on because I've called on my colleagues to stay calm and discuss outside the House Hall. [[There's 55 on the board.]] I believe we'll be able to get the necessary kvorum. So far, we've had him at an ongoing interpellation. [[At least 67 Members present are needed. He's waiting for a few seconds. Several Members are coming to the hall.]] Just a minute. I'm asking the club presidents to secure the presence. I'm gonna reengage. [[There's a noise level rising, 65 on the board.]] I understand that some do not want to take part in the vote, but the presence in the hall is certainly higher than the number of entries. If you don't, I'm gonna have to interrupt. We still need two Members. The following interpelation is for Minister Took, who is present, and the Interpelling Member is also present. So we'll continue the negotiations. I believe we'll reach the necessary courtesy, otherwise we'll have to, of course... [[All Members speak loudly to each other. Some require interruptions when no one wants to sign in. Other Members ask for a little more patience that their Members are on their way.]] I'll wait a little longer. Opinions of the Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the Members' Clubs, if they presume to be present? If I don't, I'll have nothing left but... Do you want me to wait? [[65 still shines on the board, although in the meantime several other Members have arrived.]] I won't wait any longer. I interrupt the interview until the next session of paragraph 261, with the understanding that part of the Chamber of Deputies has no interest in deciding in the vote. [[There's a Kalousek MP at the microphone.]] Chairman TOP 09 wants to protect me from a decision. [[With laughter.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u28	Thank you for the floor. I want to make such a remark in my own ranks. I am also one of the uncompromising critics of the government that its members do not go to interpelation. But if we want to continue to criticize this government, then so do we. There's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u29	Thank you. Given that there are enough Members who can decide in the vote on the proposal by František Adámek, who has proposed the rejection of the reply of the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman and his intervention, we will decide in the vote number 103, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the proposal proposed by Mr Adámek. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, from 74 present, for 39, against 23. The motion was accepted. Minister Daniel Herman is obliged to prepare a new response to Mr František Adámek's interpelation. That concludes this interpelation. Mrs Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u30	Mr President, I am sorry, but I voted in a very different way than I wanted to, and I am therefore questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u31	Madam, I can't do that. You may object.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u32	I pushed another dot wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u33	That, Madame, is not really possible. Act on Rules of Procedure -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u34	I voted yes, so I pressed the dot yes, but I wanted to press the dot no, which I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u35	I understand your truthfulness, Madame. [[Mrs Nováková: Yes, like this.]] But in that case, I can't suggest--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u36	Sorry, Mr President, I understand that this is fun, but it is not an intention and an act. I wasn't really squeezing a dot with my finger. And I'm high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u37	All right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u38	I'm high and I'm high and I'm really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u39	You're on drugs, yes, okay. In that case, I will ask the representatives of the various clubs to check the electronic record of the result of the vote. But your proposal, as you have put it, is an unvoting proposal, because only electronic minutes of votes which do not correspond to the will of the Members expressed by the vote can be questioned. Of course, this can happen because every electronic has its own faultyness. We've been through a lot here, like spilled water into a voting machine. I cannot really vote in this case. Chairman of the TOP 09. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u40	At your call, I have checked the junk, Mr President, and I have found that I am not on the junk, although I have voted yes. Since it was one single vote, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u41	Okay. That's a different suggestion. I have closed the debate, I can give the floor to those who question the electronic record of their will in the vote. That was expressed by the President. We will decide on the objection to the vote made by the Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. We will decide in the vote 104, which I have just begun. I ask who is in favour of accepting the objection to the minutes of the vote. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 104, from 84 to 54, against 9. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote once again on the objection of Mr František Adámek's proposal, who rejects the reply of Minister of Culture Daniel Herman to his reply. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you again to log in with an I.D. card to remove any possible errors that are. I hope the system's okay. Since the number of applicants has stabilized, I have begun voting order number 105 and I ask who is in favour of Mr František Adámek's proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 105, from present 84 for 43, against 36. The motion was accepted. I repeat that Minister Herman is obliged to prepare a new response for Mr František Adámek. That's how I ended the interpellation. I shall read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. President David Kasal apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock, Mr Beznoska from 13 o'clock to the end of the day and, for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Ploc from 10 o'clock to the end of the day. Mr Stanislav Berkovec also apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. We're off points, I can give the floor to the President of the House of Deputies or someone with priority rights. I can't give anybody else, or I'll open another interpellation. [[He responds at the request of a Member from the auditorium.]] Questioning. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u42	I'm sorry. I would like to say that I voted differently than... [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall.]] I voted no, and I have a yes in high school, which is why I question this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to me by the chairmen or the vice-chairmen of the clubs! I am interrupting for four minutes of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, and I ask the club presidents to attend!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, after clarification of the minutes on the outcome of the vote, we have come to the conclusion that this interpelation is terminated. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] I ask the House to remain calm and we will continue. Another interview with which the MP was not satisfied is the House Press 898. This is about interpelling Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the employment status of Czech carriers on the French market. Interpelation, as I said, is in print 898. Calm down, please! I am opening a debate which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is the first to report to. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u45	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the interpellation is a bit of an earlier date. I sent her on July 1st. The Minister replied to me on 29 July and I must say that we clearly agree from the text of the reply that the law adopted by France is against the interests of the Czech Republic and against the interests of Czech carriers. Why I expressed my opposition to the answer is that I would like us to try and tell ourselves in the debate what else the government can do to increase the pressure on France, even though it has already taken steps. That's what you'll find in the Minister's reply. In particular, I want to ask if we are going to think of this as an extraordinary step. If the action comes and if France is finally convicted, it will be forced to repeal this law, so it will take some time. I don't know exactly what happens to our carriers having to pay fines. It's not a theory anymore, it's a practice. We have noted in the press that some carriers have already received fines for this - it is completely absurd - that the Czech driver who drives for the Czech company does not respect the French minimum wage. If you put that sentence together, you'll find it absurd and we have to fight it. Each state has its rules and only that someone is passing through another state can suddenly not, in my strong opinion, pay employment relations. This could also be where there is more liberal labour law than in our country, which we find enough of such states, the employer could give a statement on the territory of the state that he will wait for the driver and say: for example, in this country there is a notice period of a month and not three months, so here I am giving you a statement because we are in the territory of another Member State, so these rules apply. We ourselves acknowledge and agree that this is absolutely unacceptable and truly absurd. First question, did anything change since the end of July? Because we have found allies: a total of 11 states from 28 Member States are protesting this proposal. Because he's dangerous about one thing. If we keep it that way, other states will join. And now I will note that this will, of course, be unacceptable from an economic point of view, because each country has different economic strength, otherwise set minimum wage, but also otherwise set expenses than in the Czech Republic, and at the same time administrative demands for carriers. When I imagine that the driver will travel over three four states and in these states the employer will always be forced to pay the minimum wage of a particular state in a given section, imagine how difficult it will be to calculate the wage at all. So another bureaucracy, other costs for Czech entrepreneurs. I think we need to say it exactly. These regulatory measures are adopted for the protection of the domestic market. It's unfair competition from my point of view. It is smiling that those who have the most words about free competition and free market, then in their legislation, or in their practice, violate this and protect their necks. Imagine a situation where it would be the other way around. That would be critics from the old EU Member States, what the rookie dares, how he sets his rules! We could also reciprocally accept that if the French driver passes through the Czech Republic, the Czech minimum wage is sufficient. I think French employers would even welcome it, because they would reduce their costs. That would be screaming! This is the first question that has changed, whether we have developed further steps or what the next government plan is. And the second question relates to alleged fines, if we are not prepared from my point of view for extraordinary steps, such as some state budget participation in these additional costs that the employer has not caused, but this results from membership of the European Union. These are two questions I would like to ask the Minister, which is why I have expressed my disagreement. It is not that I do not agree with the answer, rather I ask for additional information, which I am sure will suffice as an oral form. I will not suggest disagreeing with the answer, but I really wanted to take this opportunity and get support. I believe that we agree that such a measure is discriminatory against Czech entrepreneurs and Czech carriers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u46	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Minister of Transport of the Czech Republic Daň Ťok has entered into the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u47	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am fully in agreement, and here we are probably in agreement with Mr Stanjura through Mr President, yes, there have been further steps since then. Firstly, our letter to 11 ministers, Commissioner Bulc, sent eight Western Europeans again, from the old countries, ministers, seven plus Norwegian, a letter pointing out, in turn, unfair practices, that social aspects in transport need to be addressed. I would just perhaps pick up one aspect from the letter that I find very controversial, and that is that they are protesting and need to take action against so-called letterbox companies, which are actually Western forwarders who set up a branch in Romania for example and hire Romanian drivers for Romanian wages and let them drive around France or Germany or other countries, which is basically a kind of slave labor. However, it is the problem of countries and carriers from countries, not the problem of the new Member States. If they hired them for French wages, I don't think there's a problem. However, we continued as a response to the fine that fell there in France, I have a letter prepared today for my ministry colleague, Minister of Transport France plus his supervisor, so the letter is now finished and will be sent. There, we want France to do what Germany has done to suspend this law at the time of their initiation. Unfortunately, they did not take the same step as the Němec, I was in Brussels last week on another matter, and I spoke with Commissioner Bulc, and we also discussed this issue. She has suggested that our carriers, and I have dealt with them and I will still negotiate with them, are now involved in the public debate, because not this one, but the next Council of Transport Ministers in Brussels will discuss precisely the road package with these aspects. We're definitely doing footsteps. As a V4, we're going to take the next steps. Minister Adamczyk from Poland, where I was yesterday, also spoke about this. So it's not like we put our hands in our laps. In what way, if it helps forwarders, if they are fined, I think it is a sensitive question that would need a longer debate, especially because we agree that no country should require the use of a minimum wage especially for transit. It seems meaningless for us to transit. [[10.30 hours]] On the other hand, it is difficult for us to argue that if the driver drives only on the territory of France or on the territory of that country and does cabotage there, in this case, it will probably be difficult to defend our position. And there was quite a look from the messages, but we need to check that the driver who was fined was doing cabotage. But I don't want to pretend what was or what wasn't. We need to get familiar with the case and maybe think about whether and under what conditions to help drivers or not. I just want to say one thing. It is, of course, a question that is very sensitive. I know that from the Government's point of view, Minister Marksová is also involved in this matter for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The government confirmed that it would also protest by letter against the French authorities' progress in this fine, and during the debate on the government, the Prime Minister also promised that he would raise this issue in various ways at the Prime Minister's Council and that he would also open this issue within the framework of the debate. I'll get back to the road package. I think there are other things the Czech Republic can't just leave behind. There is also a need to try not only to fine the minimum wage, but, for example, to force drivers not to sleep in trucks to use the hotel. It paradoxically applies even to the cipher, which means they have cabins on the ship and everything, but they say you have to dock and go find the nearest hotel and sleep in this hotel. So there's a lot of things that we're attacking in both the V4 and the V4. There will certainly be a big debate about this, and I might want to take advantage of this opportunity here, if you can hear it, so it is necessary for the public debate, in the commentary procedure that is being held on the Internet website, to log as many Czech operators, Czech comment points as possible, so that the European Commission has enough incentive to deal with it. The fact is that at this point, as Commissioner Bulc pointed out to me, Western Europe is leading. They may have a larger number of those who log and send comments, but I think we have to do it the same way or to an even greater extent. And from this point on, I would like to conclude that I completely agree with what Mr Stanjura said here. It is, in my opinion, pure protectionist measures, and in debates both informal and formal, I have heard French colleagues declare that they also have their constituents and that they are doing this for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u48	Good morning. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u49	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I don't think we can let go of the pressure. The question is whether it would be advisable to involve the Chamber of Deputies as a whole in this pressure and you consider it yourself. I'm not suggesting it at the moment, but it's a matter of debate. Even with the compensation, I know it's a complicated question, but compensation can be different. And we can compensate them indirectly, for example, by reducing some taxes. It doesn't just have to be pure subsidies. These are things we should consider in the context of these things. After brexit, there is a debate on how to move on with the EU, and I really mind that if we remember the four fundamental economic freedoms that I support, and not only me, my political party, that is, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, this proposal is clearly against these principles. And then consider one thing - and I'm not a friend of protectionism, I'm a friend of the open market, but the terms must be fair. So let's consider one thing: in that case, we'll make the same law the other way around. We're just gonna copy it and put in our terms, and it's gonna apply to those who are somehow moving against our interests. And they can't even say ashes, because what would happen if we accepted the same diction, for example, that French drivers must sleep in Czech hotels when they are in the Czech Republic, or that the Czech minimum wage is sufficient when they pass through the Czech Republic. Yes, it's protective measures, but if we go against who started it, he can't have a counterargument. And we have our constituents. I don't think at all in electoral terms right now because I think there is a big consensus and that this is not a matter of political disagreement within the Chamber of Deputies. So let's consider it and not be afraid of it. And I would quite like to see the reaction of the French carriers when they say, well, they can't sleep here in the parking lot. Here we have a nice hotel, there are good services, good prices, chop, chop. And now I'm really serious about this meeting. This is not for the parliamentary initiative, it is indeed for a wider debate, and if it is, such a law can be prepared very quickly and can be approved very quickly. I imagine it's in the '90s. Then it will pass through the Senate, the President will sign, and three months from now, the same obligations are for French employers, and I would even do so only for those countries that target protectionist measures against the Czech Republic. For those who don't, there's no reason for us to be the first and then wondering if we'll get it back from the other side. Thank you for the information, and it really is quite comical, and maybe it is one of the things that we're going to have here today as a Commissioner, and I think I'm going to have it at least as one point in the debate, so that she, too, can interpret it as if it were Parliament's position. There we can even adopt a resolution at that point if there is a will to do this, for example, that the Chamber of Deputies supports the government in its duel for banning the discriminatory law of France, etc. I think that if, for example, the Department of Transport officials had prepared it by then, we would have been able to accept it. I do not want to do this again without the Minister's consent, because this is really not a political dispute and it is a practical example of protecting national interests. And let's say, frankly, the old Member States can do it better, and they still sell it, and they train us how good it is. But even the case you described that a Western company would set up a branch in Romania and then do business in Germany is not against the principles of the internal market, the free movement of capital, services, persons and goods. On the contrary. On the contrary! So we could also say next time that foreign managers must not be in Czech companies. Then when the protectionist war starts, it just escalates, and, of course, who pays for it is the consumer. If our carriers have higher costs abroad, these costs will also be reflected by Czech customers and Czech clients and this is in the detriment of our entities. It can also lead to job losses, etc. That means we really have to fight it hard. And I say for our opposition that we are ready to support the government in this. I'm saying there's no dispute. Let's just look for tools. I would quite advocate that the House of Deputies should enter into this with its strong resolution. It is also an argument for the government that it is support across the political spectrum and that this will not change. Whatever government formation is here, we will defend the interests of Czech entrepreneurs so that they have fair conditions with other Member States. We don't want any extra benefits, we want the same rules for everyone. In this case, our entrepreneurs will follow the Czech legal order and not foreign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u50	I thank Mr Stanjur. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Member Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the words that have been spoken here show one plane or one side of the coin. Yes, as she said here, she certainly deserves attention, but the other side of the coin is that Czech wages are highly undervalued in the Western world. I think that there is no one in this House, except for some possible one or two exceptions, who would think that the Czech employee has a salary equivalent to the EU level, and that that is enough, and that he should not push to raise his wages. This is also the message that Western Europe sends and says: dear Eastern Europe, try to increase the standard of living of your citizens, level the standard of living of citizens, let them reach the level of us, the old Western Länder. That's the message the Francouz were sending. And they may be looking for inappropriate methods, but we don't really want to do anything about it. And maybe that's the mistake, too. [[10.40 hours]] I would like to welcome it if it were said here: yes, in the current situation this is a very competitive problem for us, but within three or five years we will work gradually to level out the wage levels between Western Europe and the Czech Republic. And I think that this should be the objective of all Members in this Chamber of Deputies, so that a citizen of the Czech Republic increases his standard of living faster than we have so far, so that we have some horizon, when we are already talking about the adoption of the euro, that we accept the euro as economically equivalent, or at least brought closer to the level of the historic countries of the European Union. I would see this as a goal, which I would see as a challenge to our government, which the Chamber of Deputies should support, so that a citizen of the Czech Republic has a comparable salary to a citizen of the old Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u52	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u53	Who wouldn't want that? These are general claims that no one can speak out against. But the economy has rules, and politicians don't. And those who think they're gonna take the wind, the rain, or the market, they're gonna turn out bad. I always warn in economic debates not to use just one parameter, e.g. GDP growth or, in this case, the average wage. It must also be said that in France, unemployment is almost twice as high as in the Czech Republic. We have to consider that, too. Of course, unnatural wage increases through administrative measures by foreign states can, yes, lead to increases in the wages of some, but at the same time can lead to the loss of many jobs. Employers and employees know much better than we do what the company can afford to raise wages on the one hand, but at the same time to make the company profitable, to create jobs, and not to reduce the number of employees and, at the same time, actually to the detriment of raising wages for those who remain. But I say, if this is the decision of a particular Czech entrepreneur, it's perfectly fine. But here costs Czech companies increase the parliament of another country. It's that simple. And we shouldn't let that happen. What to do to make the economy grow faster, and when the economy grows, wages rise, and now I'm talking about real wages, so that's what we're arguing about. That's the right-wing center. You believe in more regulation, we believe in more openness, less bureaucracy, that's legitimate, and that's what we'll be arguing about all the time in the democratic Czech Republic, and that's what we'll continue to argue about. But we can't let someone else raise our costs. This is outside our national debate, outside the opinions of our voters, that one day they will lean towards the model, at other times to the model, and that changes, for example, tax laws or social laws or labour law. And that's perfectly okay. And someone here in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate wins, somebody loses. But did we have a chance to fight for the wages of Czech drivers in France? We didn't. Then let's not hide it for other good goals. I have nothing against the objective of increasing the standard of living, on the contrary. But let us do it ourselves in the Czech Republic, and if we are in a union - and I am in favour of being in it - and there are rules, let us require them not only for new members but also for old ones. Not that everyone is equal, but some are more equal. Unfortunately, the old bonmot confirms that the European Union has a system of measures that apply as long as it complies with France or Germany. And then, if it doesn't work, there are exceptions. And we are just talking about a country that has long violated the Maastricht criteria as a member of the euro area. So imagine what would happen if he were a new member of the European Union. There would be so much understanding, there would be so many delays, and another year and two more and three more, and I don't know how many years, we understand you? Well, it wasn't. That's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u54	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u55	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think this debate is moving a bit towards problems - and now I apologize for generalising - the functioning of the European Union. We're dealing with some anomalies here. I was at a conference on economic cooperation on Mondays and Tuesdays, an intergovernmental conference in Bratislava. That's where I heard another pearl. It has a little bit to do with this problem of differentiation. It is planned to create a common European fund for the unemployed, where we will all contribute. If unemployment increases in a Member State of the Union, this will apply from this fund. Here's the question: is this going to apply at what level? With us, do we contribute there or in a given country? It's kind of an anomaly with Řecko. We know the Řek have big financial problems. They have them because they have high rigid socialism there, that they have high pensions. I'm really sorry to generalize the problem here. Here we come to the problem that it is not nearly as easy to function in the European Union as we think it is. What I also heard at the conference, just another centralization, another transfer of power to Brussels. We are certainly somewhere else than we were when we joined the European Union. And I do not pretend that I am the one who rather has reservations about the European Union that I am not very happy about it. I think that what Stanjura brought up is a beautiful example of the fact that it cannot be planned, that it cannot be planned - and now let my colleague Luzar not be angry with me - to plan something, to direct the order. That's not gonna work. Nor will it be possible for unemployment to be the same everywhere, for everyone to contribute evenly to those funds, and for wages to be the same. We're getting to the point, if the moloch can actually work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u56	I thank Mr Fiedler. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura does not propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. Thank you, and I'm done with this interpellation. Another written interview is an interpelation to the Minister of Agriculture. Minister for Agriculture Marian Jurečka responded to Mrs Pěnčíková's interpelation on Government Resolution No. 170 of 18 September. Interpelation together with the response shall be presented as printing of 916. However, the Minister is not present, he is excused. I propose a vote on the interruption of this interpelation until the Minister's presence. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Minister Marian Jurečka. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? This proposal has not been adopted. So we will continue to interpelate without the Minister's presence. Whoever wants where, let's help him there. [[He's laughing.]] There's a request for a vote check. [[He's waiting for the result of the check-up.]] Does anyone want to question the vote? [[He doesn't want to.]] Let's see. I'm sorry. According to the legislation, Mrs Pěnčíková should have proposed this. I therefore declare this vote confusing. That's how we got out of it. This is Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u57	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have really gotten used to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture does not come to our meetings and that he always has a lot of other work obligations at this time as far away from the Chamber of Deputies as possible, but I am still an optimist and I hope that he will attend to us at least once by the end of the term, and I will have the opportunity to discuss my intervention with him. That's why I'm asking you to interrupt the interpellation in the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u58	Thank you, Madame. I'll put it to a vote, and I wish her optimism would last a long time. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[Waiting, the number of Members in the Chamber is monitored.]] Yes, and what I was afraid of is happening. So I am interrupting the House of Deputies' meeting for the absence of a sufficient number of Members within 11 hours when we will continue the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, today we will welcome a member of the European Commission, Mrs Věra Jourová, in the Chamber of Deputies, and it is therefore necessary for us to agree to her presence in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to do so now. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on this following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the participation of a member of the European Commission, Mrs Věra Jourová, in the Chamber of Deputies'. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 107 vote. 104 Members and Members are registered, for 87, against none, the proposal has been accepted. I would remind you that at today's meeting we included paragraph 229 concerning the operation of the Ministry of Defence forces in the Republic of Iraq and then we will address paragraph 219, which is precisely the point of the Commissioner. We would also discuss points from the report block, proposals and other points from the first and second reading block. I'm asking who's applying to the agenda. prosit, Mr. Chairman of the ANO Parliamentary Club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u60	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of our MP, to propose a fixed classification of a point that did not reach yesterday. There is item 175, government bill Civil Code, House print 642 in third reading, for tomorrow, on Friday 21. 0. 2016 as the fifth fixed point, i.e. in front of the environmental minister's points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-001-261.u61	Thank you. I'm asking who else is applying to the agenda. If there is no such person, we will vote on President Faltýnek's proposal that paragraph 175, the Civil Code, the Amendment to the Civil Code, House Press 642, his third reading, be placed as the fifth fixed item tomorrow. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It's a 108 vote. 115 Members and Members are registered, for 77, against 19. The motion was accepted. That's all on the agenda. We'll continue with the first point number
