ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u1	232. Oral inhalation The first interview was drawn by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the absence of members of the government on interpelations, which is a very current interpelation today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u2	Absent Prime Minister, allow me to refer to you again in the matter of non-government participation in oral interviews. In your final response to my interpelation on this matter, you said in response to my complaint about the frequent absences of certain ministers that you would have to draw up statistics that would result from what is actually happening with the attendance of ministers. Not long after that, I learned from the media that the statistics were actually produced and that there were really unflattering figures about a number of members of the government. These include Prime Minister Babiš with a participation of 32 percent, who was even heard that he did not go to interpelation because he had to work. I find that to be completely absurd. Part of his work is from the Constitution and answering questions on Parliament's soil. But to point to the question itself. In response to my interview in April, you said that on the basis of this statistics, you would talk to those ministers who have the worst results and ask them to participate in the interview. I would therefore like to ask which ministers you have spoken to and how they have opposed your request, whether there is a promise to improve the current bad situation. I'd like to believe that I do, even though the view of the government benches doesn't suggest much. Perhaps this is why I would like to express my conviction that repeated interpelations between my colleagues and mine are not a sufficient solution and that it will be necessary to devote the point of negotiation itself to this problem, during which there will be enough room to clarify constitutional rights and the obligations of the members of the government and Parliament. I will propose his inclusion on Tuesday, and, as far as I know, other colleagues also have the support of this step. Some members of the government despise this House, and this House must not take it. That's for your information, Prime Minister. In any case, thank you in advance for your written reply. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I just add that last year, the Prime Minister baptized a zebra and this year, he lays the foundation stone of the firehouse during the interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Perhaps the Prime Minister will also take the criticism into the ranks of the members of the government. Mr Stanislav Mackovík, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the military significance of the passage by the Czech Republic of the American colony, will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u4	Hello, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members. I would like to address the absent Prime Minister with these questions. The official website of the US Army in Europe states that the United States Army in Europe plays a key role in promoting US interests. I therefore ask what are the interests of the Army of the Czech Republic in custody of the Saber Strike exercise, which will take place in the Baltic and with which is connected the transfer of the American army through our territory. What is the goal of 500 soldiers and 225 pieces of military technology when a single vehicle comes up with a little more than an average of two soldiers, in many cases an incomplete crew? Why is this technique not being moved by rail or by air, where other types of troops, i.e. traffic air force, could be trained? And why is moving along the road causing traffic restrictions, which are a problem for our citizens? I would also like to ask if sharp ammo is in the vehicles of the U.S. Army, and if the Prime Minister knows how much and what kind of ammunition is being held, and why the North Atlantic Alliance is more or less engaged in exercises in the Baltic States and the Russian border, and that is all the less concerned with the refugee crisis and the associated humanitarian problems. And, of course, why he's less concerned with the war on terrorism. And yet, how many hours in the upcoming exercise, along with our army, will the U.S. military soldiers devote themselves to the declared joint training in shooting, climbing and driving in vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. The third interview will be given by Mr Radim Holeček, who will interpel to the Prime Minister on the contribution for OKD's redundant staff. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u6	Dear Prime Minister. Isn't that bad luck for me? Now that I'm lucky to have moose and family support at the gallery, you're not here. I intercede you in the case of a social contribution for fired employees of OKD in the amount of CZK 8,000 for a period of three years. I understand your motives that at all costs you want to cover up your error in selling OKD to Mr. Bakal and the subsequent deflation of the company for which it will now be unsystemically paid. I want to ask you if the state would have acted the same way if the North Bohemian mines were to be found in insolvency, for example, in the region that I represent here. I don't think so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Karel Fiedler, who will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the question of interpelling Members, will give the fourth interview. Interpel, Mr. Ambassador, about the interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. If citizens are watching, it is a really grim view of this hall, where the presence of Members is small. But it's because the Prime Minister isn't here, and it doesn't look any different at the other ministers' interviews, just like at the government's meeting. We have a minister here today who needs to be present to meet the House. And often the House is present at meetings - I call it the Minister for the Present, Mr Herman, who always represents an absent government. So if it was said that the Prime Minister would draw any conclusions from the appearance of interpelation, then today we had a clear opportunity to see how those conclusions were drawn, how it seems that only one was dealt with in the morning written interventions. The rest of the interpellation was canceled, the House didn't sit down. If you don't like it, citizens that the House works the way it works, it is a matter of government that doesn't run the House, but significantly affects it. When I look at the list of Members to be interviewed today, it is surprising that there are no members of social democracy. As I did once statistics, once 70 percent of those who intersect their own minister are not here today because the Minister is not here. So the words from Stanjura's colleague this morning that they're asking their Prime Minister how he's doing well, and he's answering them how well he's doing it here, so it wasn't that much fun, it was unfortunately a very cruel reality. I expect the Prime Minister to take real action to do this - and we should seriously consider, as the House, what the interpelations in the Parliament of the Czech Republic look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u9	I thank the honourable Member and, after the sitting, I will be happy to propose a solution to him from the position of managing meeting. I'd know how to rebel against it. Mrs Alena Nohavová, who will interpelise the Prime Minister on the speech of a member of the government at the Sudeton German Assembly, will give the fifth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, since the new meeting point proposed by Vojtěch Filip was not adopted, who requested information from you about the appearance of a member of your government, the Minister of Culture, Mr Herman, at the Sudeten German compatriotic assembly with official government sanctification, I ask you about this through intercession. Unfortunately, you're not present today, so at least I'll read the interview. Alexandr Mitrofanov commented on this situation in Právo - I quote: "In contrast to some Czech politicians, Sobotka supported this speech. Politically, he pricked the way to him." Is that true, Prime Minister? Unlike the President, who distanced himself from direct support, I have not yet noticed your distancing. Am I gonna get it? Or should I understand, along with other fellow citizens, your opinion published in this matter as a sign of the fact that President Beneš's words on the expected efforts of some forces to rewrite history are no longer relevant to the Prime Minister? Or was it enough for you that among the leading protagonists such efforts to rewrite the history of World War II, which we are witnessing today and daily on an ever greater scale, the Sudeten German Union is no longer standing just because it has modified its statutes slightly? However, I must point out that the release of property requirements has been declared invalid by the court. Furthermore, I have the impression that the foreign orientation of the Czech state is fundamentally changing in favour of extremely national to almost neo-fascist tendencies seen in Austria and Germany. [[Attention on time.]] Or am I wrong? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u11	I thank the lady who will be answered in writing. Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpelate the Prime Minister in the case of air rescue services in the South Bohemia Region, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I turn to Prime Minister Sobotka, who is not present, with an interview on air rescue services in the South Bohemia Region. In 2015, the post of Medical Rescue Service of the South Bohemia Region was opened at the airport in České Budějovice, the main part of which is a heliport for air rescue helicopters and facilities for these machines and their crews. Landing area and other facilities are designed for helicopters up to three and a half tons, which are usually provided by air rescue services in the world. The government of the Czech Republic decided that the South Bohemia Region is excluded from the tender for air rescue services in the Czech Republic, and decided that air rescue services in southern Bohemia will be provided by army helicopters. But they have a weight of six and a half tons and can't land on the heliport of the bedujovice airport. The solution is that these helicopters should land at the army airport in Bechyně. Now, then, questions for the Prime Minister. Why did the government so unsystemically decide and appoint army helicopters to provide air rescue services in South Bohemia? Were the arguments taken into account that the investment of CZK 50 million from the funds of the South Bohemia Region was actually wiped out? According to the Prime Minister, what is the South Bohemia Region supposed to do with the heliport and its background when the air rescue service in this form can't work there? And the last question: Will it not be possible to accuse the regional representatives of not acting as proper economic operators when they invested the CZK 50 million? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u13	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová will interpel in the seventh interview of the Prime Minister on the Government's position to address the social consequences of the decline in brown coal mining in the Ústí Region. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am interrogating you on the Government's decision to provide support only for the redundant employees of Ostrava mines and the abolition of financial compensation for miners in the Ústí Region, respectively for ČSA Dolu employees, following the October 2015 government resolution. The Government's decision to support the miners released from OKD, belonging to a private owner, is purely up to it. In the Ústí Region, however, the government decided to end mining at prosperous companies, which had to start firing against their will. It was companies that managed to take care of their employees. Moreover, the failure to provide financial support to the recently released employees of North Energy and other downstream suppliers is quite different from the promises made by ministers to the miners during their visits directly in their mining companies, where they were regularly reassured that they were doing their utmost to make them feel as little as possible about their job loss. The management of the Ústecký Region, as well as the Economic and Social Council of the Ústecký Region and the Association of Trade Unions, also strongly disagrees with this ruling. They consider this decision not only unserious, but also an attack on the Ústí Region. Prime Minister, how do you explain your position in this serious situation? And how do you really want to address the question of firing miners when you yourself promised all the help you could get? So far, you're just turning your back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u15	Thank you, ma'am. We'll proceed to the eighth interpellation. Mrs Miroslava Němcová will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka with regard to the conflict of interest law. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u16	Thank you for the floor. In this interview, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic what the real priorities of this government are. However, bearing in mind that the Prime Minister himself's priority is not today's interpelation or today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, but he taps some firehouse's base stone, so I can actually respond to the priorities of the government itself. Nevertheless, I will try to formulate the question. Once the Prime Minister and his entire coalition announced that one of the main priorities of the Czech Government was the adoption of a law on conflict of interest. This law was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a year ago. Six months ago, the first reading began. Two months ago, both in the guarantee committee of constitutional law and the committee of mandate, immune and other amendments, and they are available, so the law could continue to be discussed at second reading. Since then, although the Prime Minister has strongly cursed himself that this is a key law, in which he will stop the conflict of interest that exists directly in his government, nothing is happening. Every week, we put different government points here, but this point is not assigned by the government so that it can be discussed. My questions are: Prime Minister, is this law still a priority of the government? Why, then, if the government is a priority, why don't you agree on its precise inclusion so that it can be discussed? Thirdly, will you, as you promised, support Mr Plíšek's proposals on this bill? Fourthly, will you support Mr Chvojka's proposals, for which a large part of the leadership of social democracy was behind, with the fact that it will support this law in a firm way within the framework - that is, this proposal in the context of conflicts of interest? Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Jana Hnyková, who will interview Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the remuneration of non-medical staff in hospitals, will give the ninth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you all a lovely afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, as the media is going on, health salaries should increase by 10 percent from 1 January 2017. That is what your coalition agreed on at meetings with regional representatives, medical chambers and medical and health unions. I hope that you will adopt a resolution on this in the Government and your negotiations with Minister Babiš will be successful in payments for state insured people and will really increase. [[14.50 hours]] I'm worried about something else. Great problems in health pay is fragmentation in remuneration. Some health establishments are rewarded by salaries and some by wages, whether they are state or regional or private, and there are large differences in the order of thousands of crowns, and I consider this to be discriminatory. After all, the same work should be done for the same remuneration. When will you unite, Prime Minister, the remuneration of bedside workers under one system, and I consider that the most important, according to the tables? As Prime Minister, what do you do with your ministers and when will you eliminate this discrimination between employees? I do not believe that any pending memorandum that the government wants to close with the authorities will ensure a comparison of health-care remuneration. The health memorandum was adopted by a number and none was fulfilled. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u19	Thank you, Madame, for this urgent interpellation. Mr Stanislav Grospič, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the case of the Sudeton German Regional Association, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear absent Prime Minister, allow me to address you with an urgent question as to how I should perceive and how the voters and citizens of the Czech Republic should perceive your words, which you have made for the Journal Law on 21 May of this year, when you literally said that we need Sudeten Němec as allies in this uncertain risk situation in Europe. From this point of view, I would like to remind you that the Czech-German relations are regulated by the currently valid declaration, which replaced the Treaty between the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, which was concluded in the 1970s. In this context, I would also like to remind you of the disproportionate number of victims that the Sudeten Němec have just brought by creating and causing the collapse of the first Czechoslovak Republic on the eve of World War II. [[unintelligible]] At this point, I think that the message of truth, which is undisputable, is very positive, and a government representative at the level of the Prime Minister should not be reduced to going to a debate with a compatriotic society that aims to revise the postwar arrangement, the Yalt agreements of the victorious powers of World War II, and which primarily attack their demands and the Czech-German relations in this form and seek to achieve a revanishment and revision of the results of World War II. In this context, I also express my concern that your words could potentially arouse claims that will later be reflected in the demands of real restitution claims and deal with the precisely displaced Němec who have been made (?) on the basis of post-war agreements. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Tomio Okamura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u22	Dear Prime Minister, did Minister Herman go to the convention of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft with the authority of the Czech Government or in agreement with you? At the moment it is speculating that Germany is talking about a potential variant of agreement between the Sudeten Němec and the Czech Government, which would approve in quotation marks a partnership settlement, in which even though the Sudeten Němec will not get their immovable property and land back, but according to the already existing model of Czech church restitutions they could claim financial compensation from the declaration of final settlement, which Mr Posselt spoke of three years ago. The Sudeten Germans would have been given financial compensation from the Czech government for pushing Angela Merkelová from the Sudeten Němec to back off the compulsory quotas for migrants. You personally have already mentioned in this context, virtually. You said that the Sudeten Němec are supposed to need the Czech Republic as allies due to risks in Europe. And with this justification, it is said that mutual trade between your government and the Sudeten Němec would be defended in front of the Czech public. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you - are you preparing a deal with the Sudeten Němec? Are you preparing a similar trade with the Sudeten Němec? Are you preparing a new deal for the Sudeten Němec? Thank you in advance for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u23	I thank the honourable Member, perhaps he will have a specific answer. The next interviewer will be Mrs Jana Fischerová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of the absence of ministers in the consultations. Very current interpellation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u24	Mr President, thank you for this. Yes, it's an actual interpellation because I'm not the first and I won't be the last during today's interpellation, so I'm going straight to the question. Mr. Prime Minister, today I had a student here asking me what value interpelation in the House is. And I had to answer it: if they worked as they should, they would certainly have their value, because that is the only way in which we, in particular, can ask the Prime Minister and other ministers about matters, if we are not allowed to put our questions into the agenda during the House's agenda, the specific question we receive from our citizens. I also listened a week ago to Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who asked the Prime Minister, i.e. you, how will the correction be ensured in these interventions and the specific participation of ministers and ministers. Mr. Prime Minister, or you, Prime Minister, have promised to make your participation better. There were written interpelations this morning. There were ten interventions and only one minister was present. These are my particular experiences after a week. And I'm asking you - hello to the Republic where you're moving, knocking on the foundation stone. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry you're not here, because I'd like us to face-to-face and answer our questions. So I'm asking you what kind of remedy is going to be, what is your priority, and when I do some kind of duty and it is known in advance that Thursdays are for interpelation, each member of the government has to take this as their priority. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u25	I thank the Member, she will be answered in writing. Mrs Jana Hnyková will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the solution of social benefits and programmes for children from the age of 15. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, yesterday's article led me to my intervention - I quote: After elementary school straight for benefits, a trend that is beginning to frighten politicians. This article states that this problem occurs in the Ústí Region. But I also encounter this problem in my Liberec region. I attended a meeting at the Tanvald School a while ago, which triggered this meeting and drew attention to this big problem, when parents recommend that children go to the employment office after graduation, or leave the school after a month in the field of education and receive benefits. This involves hanging out with these children, early pregnancy, increased crime, and increased risk of drug addiction. I understand that if someone finds themselves in a difficult situation, that they must be helped, but here we are growing up another generation of children who will only have a basic education, often not finished, but for the future and the labour market this generation is absolutely useless. I want to ask you what measures you are preparing in this area. There are a number of projects financed from the European Union, the agency works here, nonprofit organizations with these communities, and the results are minimal. On the contrary, more problems are rising in this area. You've decided to take refugees to our country. This government cannot cope with serious problems in our country, so I do not know how you can integrate these people into our society. Thank you for your very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u27	May that be so. Mr Mackovík is withdrawing his 14th interview, so we are getting to the 15th interview. Mr Tomio Okamura will intersect the Prime Minister in the matter of freedom of speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, express yourself freely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u28	Dear Prime Minister, attorney Klára Samková is being investigated by the Bar Association for her public appearance in the Chamber of Deputies, where she drew attention to the dangers of Islam and compared it to Nazism and communism. Disciplinary proceedings within the Bar can only end with the exclusion of doktor Samková, which would mean a ban on further law practice. Prime Minister, I see this and other cases as another attempt to publicly and exemplaryly punish those who do not have an official opinion. The entire government recently rushed ahead of it to be in solidarity with HateFree, when this business concept became a victim of a staged provocation that was meant to damage and degenerate the criticisms of Islam. Aren't you and the government worth thinking about standing up publicly for freedom of speech, even those you disagree with? Showing civil courage is not a honking in the safety of the mainstream herd, but the ability to stand up for the unpleasant truth or stand up for the unpopular person. I have a challenge for you. Find you and your government and stand up for people who are persecuted for other opinions. Not for them, but for you. Otherwise, your government's time in history will be marked as the onset of a new totalitarianism. I ask for your opinion on the above.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u29	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Mr Karel Fiedler, who I do not see, is due to the 16th interview, and we are coming to the 17th interview. Mrs Věra Kovářová will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of the Government Coordinator for the Digital Agenda. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u30	Dear Prime Minister, the government has recently decided to establish a government coordinator for the digital agenda. On the one hand, I consider this decision to be good, because, for example, in eGovernment, we cannot boast about many achievements, and Mr Prouza, as far as I know, wants to devote himself intensively to eGovernment. On the other hand, I wonder if the establishment of this position comes later than it would be desirable, and whether this effort does not say, above all, that the government has neglected this area so far. Perhaps my mixed impressions will overcome what the new government coordinator will actually perform. Mr Premier, at this point, is it possible to say what topics Mr Prouza will be dealing with, with what deadline for implementation and what priorities? What is his responsibility, what is his relation to other members of the government, which of the members of the government will be responsible for his actions and their implementation or failure to do so. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the participation of ministers in the interventions, will give an 18th interview. Rather, the absence of ministers in interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u32	Thank you for the floor. It would almost seem unnecessary to repeat this, but sometimes it may be true that repetition is the mother of wisdom, so I will still try to touch on the subject that I opened this morning at our meeting. I asked the Prime Minister about past oral interventions how he would ensure that the interpelations had a normal parliamentary dimension, that the expelled ministers would come here and that those who apologized had a really serious reason. I said that we are rationally able to accept these serious reasons. We know that ministers have to go to important foreign negotiations. We know that they may have personal serious reasons or health reasons, and we certainly would not question such an apology. The Prime Minister pointed out that we seemed to understand each other, and I also hoped that we understood each other that while he, the Prime Minister, was sitting here, his first prime minister was handing out doughnuts on the election campaign. I thought that the Prime Minister would understand that this was not supposed to work, and that he would therefore make the Minister of Finance accountable. And it turned out the opposite. The week he met with the week, and although the Prime Minister promised me how to fix it, it turned out that he took a role model from the First Deputy Prime Minister and went off to campaign as well. So, while the Prime Minister was here last week and the campaign was done only by his first vice-president, the week after that they both campaign and prefer these things to the duties in the Chamber of Deputies. It's a grieving view of how they get rid of their responsibilities. But what's always true is that the fish smells from the head, and in this case, the Prime Minister will have what he sowed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u33	I would like to thank the Member and ask her to hold a seat at the counter, because she is following 19th interpellation in the case of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on gender policy. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u34	I would like to ask the honourable Prime Minister what he says to his secretary Marksová Tominová's ideas. I think that this Minister is characterised by over-creativeism, perhaps the greatest in terms of members of the government. And perhaps one of her craziest ideas from my point of view is that companies are supposed to create an anti-stress environment, and if one of their employees happens to have stress in the workplace, then somehow those companies will be punished for it. I don't think it's legislative yet, but as an idea, it really beats everything we could have expected to come here. However, another such idea, which already has a tangible form, is that the Minister has decided to distribute CZK 400 million to his friendly non-profit organizations, in which it has also moved a lot before, to the so-called gender policy, which is intended to cover the equalisation of salaries between women and men in the business sector. No offense, people are to be rewarded for every job so that there's no difference between them whether he's a man or a woman. But CZK 400 million to give nonprofits to deal with this thing somehow, to fix it, it really seems like Mars to me. That is why I want to ask the Prime Minister when the government decided on this, what the conditions for choosing those non-profits that are going to do this, when we have to know their outcome, how they will assess it, which companies are doing well, which are not doing well. Just what criteria these non-profit organizations will accept so that the CZK 400 million will be spent to actually produce a result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u35	I thank the lady of the house for her interpellation. We're getting to the second-to-last interpellation. Here too, Mr Tomio Okamura, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of referendum, will interpel here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u36	Dear Prime Minister, do you think citizens have the right to decide their country? Yes or no? If so, tell them why you are blocking them from deciding in a referendum on all issues as usual in democracy and as citizens also wish. Or do you think you are wiser than the 10 million citizens who feed you, your government and your party well? No restrictions on people's voting can apply in real democracy. It is clear from the principle that the country belongs to the people, not to party elites, on the one hand, because if anyone feels that citizens are not qualified enough, it is clear that neither does the House have any qualifications, which in that case would only consist again of unqualified representatives of those - in quotation marks - of unqualified citizens. And let me just remind you that the referendum law that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD has already submitted, and you, your government, Sobotkův, Babišův and Bělobrádkův's government, our SPD movement, have rejected - this proposal of ours has enabled us to vote on all issues in the referendum and also that the referendum be binding on Parliament. On the contrary, your government proposal, which has been here for quite a long time in the House, and clearly there is no strong will to discuss it, limits fundamental issues, and the referendum is not even binding on Parliament. So a spit in the face of the citizens. And I'm asking you to really answer all three of my questions specifically, because every time I ask you a question here, it's kind of me on the wagon and you on the goat. So you can never answer my questions, avoid answers, or always talk about something completely different, because you just don't know the answers to my questions or are uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. I wish it wouldn't happen this time. Mrs Miroslava Němcová will give the twenty first interview, and the Prime Minister will be consulted on the tobacco lobby. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u38	Thank you for the floor. I must say that the appearance of the representatives of the government coalition in yesterday's television broadcast of Czech Television, ČT 24, in Events, comments has led me to this interview. There were representatives of all three parties forming a government coalition, and they rushed to see who would call who more paid for the tobacco lobby in connection with the adoption of the anti-smoking law yesterday. I thought it was incredible what happened on the screen. And if there were such strong claims and such strong accusations against each other from all three sides, then I must ask the Prime Minister what he says that his Minister of Health is referred to not as the Minister of Health, but as the Minister of Tobacco lobby, as the representative of the YES movement said on this programme. These are such serious suspicions that the Prime Minister should take a clear position on this. So my questions are what the state of the government coalition says after yesterday's anti-smoking law hearing. One. Secondly, what he says about the blame is that Minister Němeček is, in other words, paid for by the tobacco lobby. He's not the Minister of Health, but he's the Minister of Tobacco lobby. And how he intends to explain to his coalition partners that this is not the case and to refute these suspicions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u39	Thank you. That was the last written interview for Mr. absent prime minister. And if the House doesn't object, we'll move on to oral interpellations for members of the government according to the winning order. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on tax payments, will give the first interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u40	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, it's been a long time since we've talked about paying with a card that pays taxes. Recently, this issue resurfaced in connection with another legislative package prepared by the Ministry of Finance. According to my information, however, credit card payments are, if at all, to cover only a certain amount of payments that are subject to tax rules. Minister, can you please clarify the situation? Can citizens expect to be able to pay taxes through a credit card or not? If so, then when. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Let's move on to the second interpellation. Mr Radim Holeček will also interpel Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš on missing documents to the Chapi's nest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u42	Dear Minister, by the way you're still absent, we've actually already created a kind of writing series. Maybe one day we can publish it in a book for your čapí's nest. You have now answered me that, at the time of the application for a grant, that is to say, on 29. 2. 2008 was no longer part of the Agrofert Group and was therefore not listed in the consolidated financial statements of Agrofert, a. s. for 2008. But the audit team in connection with the general meetings of the farm Capi Nest, a. s., held between 2008 and 2010 requested copies of the full powers for shareholders' representatives to participate in the general meetings of the company. The audited person states that the documents present and the power of attorney were not able to be traced. The server Do not influence also quoted another interesting passage from the audit report: "The failure to provide explanations explaining the participation in these general meetings is still another indication that increases the risk that the farm is a nest, a. s. was one economic entity with Agrofert Holding." Doesn't this all seem suspicious to you? I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u43	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Jana Hnyková, who will interpelise the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on social benefits for children who have completed school, will present a third interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u44	In the introduction, I would say to my colleague Holečka through you, Mr President, that if we founded a magazine, there could be written interpelations, answers to that, and citizens would learn a lot of things. I'm interpolating to the Minister on the same matter as I did to the Prime Minister, and it concerns yesterday's article, which I have already quoted, after elementary school straight for benefits. A trend that's starting to scare the politicians. As I have already said, this problem concerns not only the Ústí Region, but I am also meeting this problem in my Liberec Region. You mentioned in this article that you are proposing to extend the school. That means you know about this problem. It is not possible to move this problem to another resort, but it must be approached comprehensively. What are you going to do about it? The benefits are paid from your ministry, and they don't fall even during economic growth. What concept do you have prepared in this area? How are these children involved? After all, we are preparing more problems in the future. You yourself visited Tanvaldsko. You know how much trouble we're in there. And I have to repeat that this phenomenon is associated with increased crime, increased risk of drug addiction, early pregnancy, and I can name other pitfalls. I also have to tell you that there are a number of projects financed from the EU. The Nonprofit Organization Agency works here, but as I said in my previous interpelation, the results are minimal, and, on the contrary, more and more problems. It is necessary to address this issue immediately and not toss it all over like hot potatoes. Thank you for your answer and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Ladislav Okleštěk, who should interpel his Minister of the Environment, is to present the fourth interview. Oh, he's here. He's going to interpel his environmental minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to your colleague Bendl for the delay, but I had a physiological break. So I have a question for the Minister. Dear Minister, it has been very common lately that ministers participate in various intergovernmental delegations, etc. I noticed that you had a long weekend in Israel, and I didn't catch the exit from your meeting anywhere. I wonder how the visit really went. What were you guys talking about? 'Cause it seems to me that no one travels today isn't a minister. And at the moment, it seems to me that we should do more work in the House, if these are only roads that are roads for travel. So I'd like to hear from you if you're... foreign visitors, we have a performance, and then I'll keep asking questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, how was Israel?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u48	Thank you for asking. Mr President, honourable Member... [[Fun, laughter in the hall.]] That's a friendly interpellation to your minister. At least you can see it's not easy for us. First of all, it wasn't a long weekend, virtually. such an extended weekend, a fellow Němeček was there with me, can confirm that it was a really short weekend. We flew there Saturday night and came back Sunday night. Early Monday morning, about two o'clock in the morning, we landed at the airport, and in the morning there was a government. So it was very hectic. But I think it's very intense, because that one day we spent there acting - Sunday, which is a working day in Israel. I was looking forward to their Sunday off, but they're not. They're on a business day. That is, of course, how we met both the Israeli President and the President of the House. But above all, we met with our departmental colleagues, which was the main subject of negotiations for the negotiations to be relatively short, so I think it was very interesting, because Israel is the world leader in water management. It has very little water and can manage it fantasticly. I'm sure we have a lot to learn from him. I fear that the period when we will be forced to use some of the technologies is coming very quickly. [[15.20 hours]] So we agreed on a specific form of exchange of experts. Israeli experts will come to the Czech Republic and we will discuss three topics. One theme will be the use of water, i.e. both raw water and then waste water, because they have extremely interesting technologies for the use of waste water or for recycling of waste water. And we have opened up two other topics, where Israel, on the other hand, has a great deal of interest in working with us, and this is in the field of waste disposal, because Israel is surprisingly dumping a large part of its waste, and therefore also interested in Czech experience with gradual diversion from landfilling. Last but not least, Israel is surprisingly solving very similar problems as the Czech Republic solves in its industrial areas, and this is air quality. They also have very industrial regions, such as the port of Haifa, which are heavily burdened with toxic substances, dust microparticles. We actually solve a similar problem, for example in Ostrava, albeit in a slightly different dimension. So here too, we have agreed that there will be a great deal of room for meetings and meetings of experts and possible joint projects. But for the Czech Republic there is now a very interesting area of cooperation in the field of water, be it the use of the precipitation water, of course also in the area of waste water or sewage water. And I think we've done a lot that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u49	Thank you, Minister, that was exhausting so much that the Member no longer wants an additional question. Thank you. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Ivan Adamec will intersect the absent Minister Jan Mládek on market economy status. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, dear rest of the government, I would like to stop by to address the problem that our chairman of Zbyněk Stanjura Club has opened here in approving the programme, and this is the admission of market economy status for China, the People's Republic of China. So I have to say that when I first heard this term, I thought it was a very bad joke, because if you remember what happened after the opening of the Czech markets, the de facto opening up of the Asian market, including the Chinese market, started rolling us very hard in some fields, and even tax defenses weren't enough for this rolling. Because to say that China should have market economy status, I would say a bold statement, because in China, although capitalism is capitalism, but state-owned state capitalism, there is intervention for the benefit of China's currency, as it suits them. Moreover, China, if I had experience getting to know it personally, I was also there on a foreign trip, it's about eight or nine years ago, so China doesn't more or less respect the licensing agreement, copy what it wants, sell it under its brands, for other money. In the end, even in the field that I do as a hobby, it is the same because Chinese products simply roll products from the Czech Republic. It's a shame we didn't put it as a new point. I think that even what the Minister said here in the introduction that they are going to do about it is a good answer, but I would very much like to be assured, and all of you and the public, that this is simply not going to happen. It's a big problem. I understand China's economy can't be overlooked, it's a huge economy, it's modern to talk about China today. [[Time.]] And so I would like you to describe to us how you see it in the future and tell us whether you are really strong enough in the campfires to basically not support this status award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the present Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, on the Fund of Unable Risks, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u52	Thank you for the floor. I must take advantage of the situation when the Minister of Agriculture is finally among us. I wanted to ask - the right name would probably be uninsurable risks, I don't know how it got inconvenient. But basically, it's the same thing in other words. Last year, the Czech Republic and a number of farmers suffered extreme drought, and since then, through the promises of the Ministry of Agriculture that there will be some financial assistance in this area, because this is a situation from which farmers cannot help themselves, it is promised that there will be some assessment of the matter and possibly payment of aid. Because it hasn't happened until today, I wonder how things are going to happen, when things are going to happen. As far as I know, there aren't even proper forms yet to collect the individual documents, and time is running out. So if you really want to help them, so hopefully not in 2017 or 2018, but we're already over a year after the event. It is a question of how much further it will help someone who still exists. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u53	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, I would like to clarify the terminology. We've been talking in the department for the past two years, and we're talking about a fund of difficult-to-insolvency risks. So that's the first one to start with. We never talked about any other name or other principle. The fund is intended to insure risks which are difficult to insulate by commercial entities, namely drought and rainfall during the harvest period. Insurance companies today, for example, will not provide you with grain or most of the other commodities at the time when they run out of maturity, and experience from past years is such that during the harvest period it will start raining two for a week and at that time the crop is grown and the crop is damaged and no one can assure you of this risk from insurance companies. The principle of the fund is to work by putting money into this fund by the state, by way of a contribution by farmers depending on whether it is permanent grassland, arable land or other special crops, and we have prepared different rates so that it is an acceptable rate for farmers to enter this fund by most farmers, because if the majority does not enter it, let's say the principle of solidarity will not work. However, last year shows that although many farmers said "I will never be concerned with such a matter, because I am in a good area, I am not at risk of these risks" last year, so last year showed that drought threatens absolutely everywhere, and we have a period in which rainfall during the harvest period also showed in the past that it can affect various production areas in the Czech Republic. We started working very intensively on this fund last year. I was repeatedly assured by the then PGRLF Director, who was in charge of this issue, Mr Karban, that in the first quarter of this year we will be able to launch and launch this fund. However, after the personnel exchange at PGRLF and after the new leadership took a real look at the issue properly and comprehensively, it was explained to me that we have two basic problems, and this is the notification of the European Commission, which was still in progress at the time, and then, above all, the quality legislative framework for this fund in the Czech Republic legislation. We have completed the notification, but from our point of view, the Commission's statement left some formal administrative deficiencies, so we asked them to clarify and supplement the notification. So we are waiting for their comments, and we are also preparing a legislative framework, because the fund, which, on the one hand, collects money from private entities, from the state, then has some mechanism to distribute this money, so this issue must already have legislative support. So we're undermining the Hardly Insulable Risks Act. I must say that I really see the activity that awaits us, whether communication with the European Commission, the preparation of legislation, its approval, at least for the next 12 months. So, unfortunately, the expectations that we had of making this fund this year will not come true. I told the farmers, and I apologized for it. [[15.30 hours]] If last year's drought has fallen and has been criticized that it hasn't been paid yet, I'd like to say that it isn't entirely true. Last year, the European Commission approved a rescue package for farmers and its compensation for the effects of Russian sanctions, but also for last year's drought. It was CZK 304 million that the European Commission allocated us from the European budget. We as the Czech Republic could add a hundred percent to this. So a total of approximately CZK 605 million was paid to Czech farmers this year by the end of April, mainly farmers and producers of milk and pigmeat. Of course, we are also working to compensate for drought for other commodities, especially for fruit and vegetable growers, but also for crops intended for feeding purposes. Here we are in the process of receiving applications for this grant title and money should be paid to farmers during the months of August and September. Some people can say yes, it's only a year later. It should be noted that by the end of the year we collected data from farmers through their agricultural unions and at the end of March within three months material was prepared for the government, including a discussion of the allocation to be paid out. Today, the decision is at least 600 million, which will be paid on the basis of the applications received. So it needs to be realized that even though it was a drought in July, August, we had to wait for the final harvest and the final state of damage that the drought caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bendl's supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u56	Thank you for the floor. Minister, at the end of your contribution, you said that $605 million would be paid, at the beginning you said it was paid. So I'd like you to make it clear whether it's a misrepresentation or a misheard. So I take you at your word, although I really think the sentence that you are currently collecting requests, that is, in May 2016 you are collecting requests for events that happened in the summer of 2015, it is really a little late, admit it. Farmers didn't know what you were gonna ask them to do. There may also be a problem there, that it is not on the side of farmers, but rather on the side of the Ministry of Agriculture, that it was not able to say which information is actually there. And the question is, to what extent farmers will put them all together now. But I'll take your word that by the end of September, the whole thing will be out of the world, and these things will be settled and paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u57	Please, Minister, a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u58	Let me explain one more time, maybe you weren't paying attention or didn't hear right. I was talking about one amount, which is compensation, which was decided by the European Commission last October. It was about 304 million crowns. We have added so much to this amount about once more, so it is a little over 605 million crowns, which were already by the end of this year April (?) paid and paid on farmers' accounts. This is, say, a package made by Europe and the national budget. Then the sum of another CZK 600 million approved by the government, and we are now managing these funds, we accept these requests, with the need to realise that the beet harvest, for example, one of the commodities covered by this compensation, and its processing took place by the end of January of this year, that we were gathering material from the unions during the autumn until all commodities were harvested... [[Mr Bendl is having fun in the ODS bench with his colleagues.]] Mr Bendle through Mr President, please pay attention, because you then do not know and ask questions that most of the audience here will normally understand in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. [[Screams from the right: Through the President!]] Yes, through Mr President, of course, otherwise I would not dare. And for these closed damage monitoring, the government has approved a methodology, conditions and allocation within two months. Farmers have known exactly since February, these conditions have been posted on the Ministry of Agriculture's website, and there is now a sharp acceptance of applications for farmers to submit those applications, to conduct the damages commission and to pay the money if farmers meet the parameters of the programme as notified to the European Commission. So we're trying to move as fast as possible, but it needs to be realized that the commodities were harvested throughout the fall, and until the agricultural unions had added up the damage, we could hardly say how much money we'd want from the government and how we'd run the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u59	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mr Simeon Karamazov, who will also intersect the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka in the case of the register of contracts, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u60	Dear Minister, last month I asked you about the possibility of exempting from the register of contracts of those entities whose position is in fact the same as that of the national company Budvar, Budějovický Budvar. I had in mind state-owned enterprises and commercial companies owned by state or local authorities. In your written reply, you correctly compared Budějovický Budvar to ordinary business companies owned by private individuals. The purpose of all these entities is to achieve profit and the only difference between them is that while Budějovický Budvar owns the State, the owners of the commercial companies are most often private persons. Therefore, I fully agree with your conclusion that a national enterprise must be removed from the register of contracts, otherwise we will put its competitiveness at risk in vain. However, Minister, I would like you to specify your answer even further. If you compared Budějovický Budvar to ordinary private-owned business companies, doesn't your conclusions apply to state-owned business companies as well? Indeed, there is no difference whatsoever here than who owns such a business company. I therefore ask you, Minister, whether you will support those amendments in the third reading of the Act on the Register of Contracts, which will mean the exclusion of commercial companies owned by the State or local authorities. In view of your previous answer, a different answer to my question would be very illogical. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u61	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u62	Thank you. I have to say to your interview that I have now tried to remedy this amendment with my colleagues in the context of the acute situation that concerns Budvar in particular, within my department as an enterprise that we have identified as having the biggest problem from the register of contracts. As part of our department, we also have other companies, such as state companies such as river basin undertakings and Forests of the Czech Republic, where after discussion with management it has been evaluated that the register of contracts and the whole process will not endanger the functioning of these companies, will not reduce and impair competitive position. So it cannot normally be said that every type of state enterprise or property-owned enterprise will have a register of contracts, such as Budvar. I must say that in the submission of my proposal there was also a Deloitte study, which was commissioned, if I am not mistaken, by the Ministry of the Interior, and, of course, by many other entities, either within the departmental organizations or possibly other entities such as universities, did not know exactly yet and could not interpret the full application practice of the law, including all its effects. As regards the discussion of this law in the third reading, I expect the various amendments relating to other state-owned enterprises to be addressed by my Resort colleagues to say how much they have an analysis to make that this Act on the Register of Contracts could threaten the Czech Railways, ČD Cargo, Čepro and other companies, whether with 100% or majority ownership of the state. Their position will be important to me in the way I choose. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where the second reading was discussed and proposals are read, which are more or less able to address the companies we are talking about, which means companies with majority ownership of the state. So the door to the solution is open here, but the rest of the colleagues have to express themselves. I did not have the capacity and I do not have an analysis of the impact this law could have on the already mentioned České dráhy, for example. That must come and say the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u63	Thank you. The Member does not have an additional question. Mrs Dana Váhalová, who will intersect the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán in the matter of the Council of Europe's Laundering Convention, will address the eighth question. And hold on. and conf. revenue from t.no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, I would like to ask you, Minister, about the current state of affairs of ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Searching, Detention and Confiscation of Crime Income and the Financing of Terrorism. This Convention adapts to new conditions and forms of money laundering, while reflecting the fact that terrorism can be financed not only through illegal activities, but also through legal activities such as charitable collections or legitimate business activities. So my question is, when will this material be sent to the interim review procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u65	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least those who are here. If only ratification. The Convention is not yet signed by the Czech Republic, although it was opened for signature on 16 May 2005. Why has it been so long since we've been the second-to-last country, only Ireland is holding the black Petr with us, you'd have to ask somewhere else. Unfortunately, we have inherited a larger deficit in this regard, so for the time being, as far as this convention is concerned, we have completed the translation into the Czech language, and as soon as we finish the next priority, I have some further interpelations, it seems that today I will have a little scrutiny in this direction, so we will also get to this one. So far, we're counting on us to submit it to the government for approval of the signature by the end of this year. In order to say something positive, however, a legislative response which corresponds to those commitments, you know that the law, the regulation of our criminal law, and one more regulation concerning terrorism should come here in the near future in the second reading here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u67	Thank you. Additional question, Madame, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u68	Thank you, Minister. I actually have a point here that this is a presidential contract which was opened for signature in Warsaw in May 2007 and that this material should be in the interim review proceedings until the end of 2016. I just hope that's the way it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who will interpelise the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the issue of foster care for a transitional period, will give the ninth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u70	Thank you. Madam absent minister, I was recently approached by my mother, the adopter of a 19-month-old girl who, thanks to the gap in our laws, got into a difficult financial situation. A transitional foster child, who had taken care of the little girl before this adopter, was set to draw parental allowance in the shortest possible length. So the foster mother almost exhausted all the resources from the parental allowance package, namely 218 500 crowns, which is related to the little girl. Thus, there was only CZK 1,500 left for her to draw, which would amount to 125 crowns a day if she wanted to be home with the little girl until the age of three. We all know you can't live on it. So I would like to ask you how it is possible that such cases are still taking place, although I have been assured in various places and on the part of the MPSV in the past that such behaviour by foster parents is no longer possible for a transitional period. Is there any legal solution to help this mother? I note that she has been in contact with the Labour Office as well as with the MPSV and, in addition to the advice, she should quit her job and take unemployment benefits, which I think is absurd, she has not received any constructive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u71	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mrs Jana Fischerová will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the Havlíčkův Brod Financial Office building. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u72	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I confess that I am the former mayor of Havlíčkův Brod, and of course I am conjoined with the city and people are turning to me in their affairs, joys, but also worries. And one of those big worries is the current financial office building, which is actually the property of the Ministry of Finance, by virtue of the Office of State representation in property matters. Absent Minister, we have already discussed this matter, I have already exchanged correspondence with the Director-General of the Office of State Representation in Property Affairs. The answer was that this building, which I am pointing out, is in absolutely no longer satisfactory condition, because the panels, so-called. The sore panels, the facades fall off and there are security nets, and people are wondering what's going to happen to this building. The written answer from the Director-General, who is now about six months old, was that all this will be dealt with in the second half of 2016, probably going to be offered for sale. The second half of 2016 is coming, and I will therefore say to the Minister here: I would be very interested in what was further done on this matter, what is planned. And I will be very happy to be a contact person so that I can carry this on to Havlíček's Brod. It is also important that the construction be secured, because even the neighbors who live close to it turned to the town hall there and to me, so that it was well equipped and there was no accident. So thank you for your written reply and I will be happy to give you information on how this will continue to be dealt with directly at the site.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Let's move on to the 11th interpellation. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček on the non-liquidation of commercial companies Hospital Na Homolce. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, on the inspection committee of the Chamber of Deputies you appointed director of the Hospital Na Homolce Mr. MUDr. Ivan Oliva introduced us to the plan to liquidate the subsidiaries of Na Homolce Hospital. I remind you that this is a non-standard hospital within the Czech Republic, which has already established two companies - Holte, s.r.o., Holte a.s. These companies also set up other companies Homolka Premium Care and Homolka, Kindergarten, a.s. I would like to ask why the liquidation of the company was stopped, i.e. the timetable presented by the Director shall not be complied with. The entry into liquidation was 14. The 12th of last year. As of 11. 5. This is stopped with the justification that the hospital did not request the formal approval of the government. It's very strange to me, she could have asked for permission, and the liquidation could have gone on. The next thing is the future of the grandson companies of the Hospital Na Homolce, because the director announced that Homolka Premium Care will be sold. I'd like to ask why. It is a company that is profitable, but from this profit, which was needed in the amount of CZK 7 million in turnover of about CZK 28 million, e.g. In 2013, the remuneration was paid to the members of the institution of 3 million 753 thousand. I'd like to ask if it's standard and if that's how other hospitals want to provide high-standard care, and why Homolka doesn't have a kindergarten like another hospital, why it has to be a business company and why it has to be sold out. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u75	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u76	Mr President, honourable Members, the Na Homolce Hospital received instructions from the Ministry of Health to take action immediately to liquidate Holte Medical, a. s. and Holte, s. r. o. as early as June 2014. After making personal changes at the post of director and vice-president of this hospital, a set of concrete steps were prepared at the end of 2014 to address the identified problems. Their important part was also the plan of necessary steps to ensure that the subsidiaries of the Na Homolce Hospital are ready to enter into liquidation. Since both subsidiaries of the hospital provided a number of key activities, it was necessary to take these activities first to Na Homolce Hospital before the start of the liquidation process, which was a hugely demanding and time-consuming task, and I am very glad that the hospital management is doing well and that they are fulfilling the intention that we have of course given them, even if there are some new obstacles. The situation is even more complex than it looked before this process began. However, Holte, s. r. o. has now ceased its activities. Basically, there's an empty shell left, if I may call it that, where it is necessary to complete this liquidation. [[15.50 hours]] However, the necessary step before entering liquidation is according to Act No. 219/2000 Sb. obtaining the consent of the Government of the Czech Republic to this step. Unfortunately, because the hospital's legal department has neglected this step, we have agreed with the hospital's management that we want this process not to be called into question and that this step will be corrected by the liquidation being initiated only after, formally, the government has given its consent. The material with the application has already been sent to the Government and immediately after the consent has been given, the decision to enter into liquidation will be decided and the liquidation of the company will be appointed, which will subsequently carry out the liquidation itself. I assume that the company's own liquidation should start by the end of June of this year. As far as the activities of Holte Medical, a. s. are concerned, they are continuously transferred to Na Homolce Hospital as individual commodities are competing on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. As soon as these activities are transferred to the hospital to the maximum extent possible, the liquidation process will also be initiated. Even in this case, however, it will be necessary to obtain the government's approval first. I assume that the liquidation process will begin by the end of the year. With regard to the liquidation of the grandson companies you mentioned, according to the new information I have now received from the hospital management, this concerns Homolka Premium Care, a. s., and Holte, Kindergarten, a. s., will be ensured by the liquidation process of Holte, s. r. o., which is its 100% owner. And I assume that the liquidation of these companies will be launched together with the company Holte, s. r. o. by the end of this year. I am now unable to comment on the rewards of the authorities in 2013, but I must say that what has been mentioned here does not surprise me, because there were many non-standard steps in the activity. That's why an order was issued to transfer those activities to a standard allowance organization mode. And I believe that a kindergarten for hospital employees will work in this similar regime. I don't think it should be a joint stock company. If the hospital can do it with its own strength, I think it's standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u77	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u78	Thank you for your answer. I just don't understand that maybe the director didn't keep an eye on things like he was supposed to have the prior approval of the government, virtually. That the Ministry of Health didn't notify him. That's one thing. The second thing is that we've been introduced to the fact that these grandson companies are supposed to be sold. They found that the cleanest way to sell these companies or to liquidate those companies is to sell them. And because it's a matter that de facto through that subsidiary is actually, it's in the property of the Hospital in Homolka, so I don't think it's a good solution, given that there are examples of some companies in different hospitals that have a certain portion, and that's the profit part of these hospitals, and they just leave here money that can be used for the hospital, for the treatment of the patients. So it doesn't seem like a reasonable solution to me, I'm asking for more information on these grandson companies and the debt of a kindergarten, which is obvious from the documents I have at my disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u79	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u80	Mr President, let me add my answer. First to the administrative error. Yes, there was a mistake, indeed, we discussed it with the director, and the alternative was, and there were various legal analyses that maybe even the consent did not have to be obtained or had to be obtained. I confess that I advised the Director that we should proceed through legal certainty, because the Director has a very difficult situation at Na Homolka Hospital. And given what he had to correct there and who he probably didn't take pleasure in interfering with some of the interesting business opportunities, I think he must be very careful not to turn the whole situation against him in the end and to end up like Mr. Mayor of Svoboda in Prague, that in the end there would be an existing director who makes order there, the one who will be covered for some formal misconduct. Therefore, in terms of certainty and some legal purity, we have decided to admit the error and to proceed with some delay in advance. I think everyone can make a mistake, especially if we take the situation that the director has to deal with there. Recompete the whole range for the hospital, solve a lot of legal problems. I have to say for myself, I have an understanding that in this situation, a mistake will happen. There was no financial or economic damage. There's been some minor delay, but I think it's worth making sure we're progressing well. As for the way those grandson companies were liquidated, I have to say, I think responsibility is now up to the hospital director. He will bear all legal responsibility and I am convinced that he will proceed very carefully with the care of a good economy. That before every step he takes, he will have appropriate legal and economic analyses and audits carried out, that this step is okay, especially given that it could be used against him. [[Attention on time.]] And that they'll choose the path that's best for the hospital, whether it's liquidation or sale. I am convinced that he will proceed with the care of a proper economy. And, of course, we'll keep an eye on that. But the director has my trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u81	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. Mr. Vojtěch Adam will give the 12th interview. He will intersect the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the issue of trucking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u82	Fortunately, the present Minister Took. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you a very simple question. Why don't we develop a legislative initiative that will address the ban on overtaking trucks to the left lane on the freeway where there are only two lanes? We who spend a lot of time on D1, we know what we're talking about. I don't want to pawn and throw all the truck drivers into one bag. But what's happening on the freeway now goes beyond any level of carrying capacity. What is published and accidentally captured is just a fraction of reality. For the discomfort of driving a car on the freeway, it is enough to pass through reconstructed sections. And I must say and commend the Ministry that they are actually very intensively working on them. When the total ruthlessness of truck drivers is added to this, the stress for the driver is absolutely perfect. A constant and continuous turn to the left, i.e. a fast lane to overtake another truck, which has only slightly lower speed, and the manoeuvre takes even a few kilometres, threatens the flow of traffic. Not to mention the behaviour of drivers in the cab, when it is clearly seen when trucks pass, that, politely speaking, driving is not much of a priority and it is not their priority. So I'd like to ask you a simple question again, why don't we develop a legislative initiative, and we don't drug trucks or truck drivers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u83	Thank you, honourable Member. We D1-riding people know what they're talking about. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Adam, through Mr President, overtaking freight vehicles on motorways can be regulated in places where this is undesirable by local traffic arrangements on roads. By means of a traffic ban sign. The infringement of this prohibition, i.e. overtaking of a vehicle in cases where it is carried out by general, local or transitional arrangements for road traffic, is a separate factual nature of the offence pursuant to § 124c para. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) point 7, for which a fine of between 5 000 and 10,000 is now imposed in administrative proceedings and a ban on activities from six months to one year. Seven points are entered into the point system. [[16.00 hours]] As part of the prepared revision, we have tightened these sanctions and we propose to allow a fine of CZK 5 000 to be negotiated for this offence in block proceedings. We propose that this offence be dealt with by means of a point system, where the driver reaches 12 points on repeated commission of this pursuant to the proposal for a six-point offence and the driver loses the ability to drive a motor vehicle for a year. Your question specifically. I believe that a general ban on overtaking freight vehicles on motorways would not lead to an increase in road traffic safety and continuity. On the contrary, a flat ban would lead, in our view, to the fact that the right lane would be clogged by trucks that would move at the speed of the slowest of them, their drivers would be nervous and embark on various neck maneuvers that could be far more dangerous than overtaking in a suitable place. As a result of such a situation, for motorways where there are two lanes simultaneously in each direction, moving all other vehicles into the left lane would also mean excluding the possibility of overtaking them. The flat ban on overtaking would thus significantly reduce the flow of traffic, which always leads to a threat to its safety. Although I perceive that overtaking trucks is a very dangerous phenomenon, I do not consider it an effective solution to ban it. It is far more appropriate, in my opinion, to place prohibited traffic signs, which will allow the conditions in particular places to be taken into account from the point of view of the parameters of the infrastructure, as well as in the light of its utilization and other circumstances. That means, I don't think they could take advantage of the ban tag much more than they currently are, but for myself and for the resort, although I originally had a similar view as you, I do not recommend that we make a flat ban on all the highways where there are two lanes, for the reasons I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u85	Thank you, Minister. I am asking the honourable Member. Yes, he will ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u86	So I would shift my attention to another interpellation not today, not to the Minister of Transport, but to the Minister of the Interior, because I've been driving on the freeway for the eighth year in Parliament all the time, and I haven't really seen the police there. Customer brands are, of course, appropriate, but it must also be checked by someone and required to comply with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u87	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u88	Just for a little while. I'd have to stand up for myself here. I think they're doing their job, and on the other hand, we were discussing the possibility of measuring and monitoring these truck offences, for example, newly using drones, and I think it's a matter that we're going to talk about, and it could help to make sure it's not a solid patrol, but it would be documented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u89	Thank you, and please, next in line, and that is Mrs Adamová, to present her intervention on Mrs Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u90	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, last month, I've been intersecting you on your commuting allowance. I questioned the introduction of another social benefit at a time of favourable economic situation and record low unemployment rates. You argued that even in a situation where there are over 100 thousand. job vacancies do not succeed in occupying these jobs by the unemployed, which is around 460 thousand. That is why you are introducing a new social benefit that you want to move the labour market, and for the pilot phase of the project you are counting on supporting about 7.5 thousand. People. I know that the pilot project has been working since April this year and it is, it seems, a little early, but after more than a month of operation, we already have numbers on which we can illustrate what interest it will be in the future. In the five regions where the pilot project works, the labour authorities recorded a total of 97 900 long-term unemployed persons in April, of which they requested a contribution in April to commute 27 people and only one received this contribution. It is about 0.03% of those who should be entitled to apply for this benefit. These figures do not testify to the movement of the labour market and also do not suggest that your target should be met in a year, i.e. to support 7.5 thousand. People. However, representatives of regional branches of labour offices are said to be putting together comments asking the Ministry to mitigate the rules for granting this benefit so that the contribution is accessible to a wider range of persons. Madam Secretary, does the MPSV intend to mitigate the rules of entitlement to the allowance in order to reach a wider range of people, such as those who have no promise of work, or do you accept that this new levy is unnecessary and ineffective and will be abolished without compensation? Is it one of your ministry's aims to save money from the state budget? In this case, I think it would be appropriate. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u91	Thank you. The Minister is not present, so I ask another in turn, and this is Mr Mackovík, to present his interpellation to the Minister of Defence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u92	Madam President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, allow me to ask you a few questions concerning the crossing of the US military motorcade through the Czech Republic. First, why this technique is not moved to the Baltics by rail or by air, thus becoming the cause of traffic restrictions that are related to the transfer of this technique. I also wonder if sharp ammo is being transported in vehicles moving across our territory, and if so, if you have any knowledge of what sharp ammo is in the vehicles. My next question is as stated in some media that American soldiers will train together with our army's soldiers, namely shooting, climbing and driving in some vehicles, so how many different types of training will be given during those few days when they are to move to our territory. And of course, how many police officers will be deployed during the transfer of technology around our territory, both the Police of the Czech Republic, if you have a reputation, and of course police officers of the Army of the Czech Republic. And I wonder what the tactical theme of the Saber Strike exercise will be in the Baltics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u93	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The planning, virtually. the entire passage has been planned for many months. We were asked sometime last November when we received a request from the United States to secure this transfer. Then the negotiations were conducted. The first was 30. 11th of last year. This was also attended by representatives of the United States embassies and the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Czech Republic, our intelligence and our police. A working team, such as in similar cases, was created to determine different responsibilities for all coordination, a joint operational center, which was at the Ministry of Defence. The next meeting took place in December before Christmas, with the participation of members of the second driving regiment, i.e. those directly affected by the transfer. Then there were other regular meetings and all planned activities were consulted with the competent authorities of the state administration, i.e. border police, Police of the Czech Republic, respectively. its transport parts, roads and motorways etc., as well as we informed the general public in advance. What's the benefit to our army of such a transfer? It is primarily a strengthening of some elementary partnership between the armies of both states and some contact, including the human attribute of this contact, it is a demonstration of the interoperability of common military activities, because in many cases there is an addition and some mutual dependence of activities, further an exchange of experience using the training already mentioned by you, and these are trainings in shooting, in driving combat vehicles, in joint ground preparation, joint work on moving in the colonies is also of course part of some training and it is also, last but not least, a verification of the ability to provide support by the host state, so-called. guest nation, according to NATO standards. [[16.10 hours]] A benefit to the U.S. Army, a reason to move. As has been said, it is a move to the Baltics to the Saber Strike 2016 exercise, which is an exercise that has been planned for a long time and is based on the demands of Baltic states that feel threatened by continuous disruption of airspace, large accumulation of weapons in the Kaliningrad area and so on. The practice of moving an alliance country across the territory of another alliance state is also an attribute that needs to be tried. If anybody thinks there's more of those moves now, he probably doesn't. It's consistent with reality, it's consistent with an enhanced security situation, and those movements are part of some kind of ability. As far as rail transport is concerned, this is just part of the rapid shift. The rapid shift training that needs to be practiced in this way, that is, after normal road roads to shorten time. Of course, if it was a purely logistical transfer, just to get the material from point X to point Y, the railroad is used standardly and normally, but it's not a drill after that. This is a practice of something that should be done quickly, organized and without major technical problems. It has to do with what I've already indicated, that is, with increased training activity in Europe as such. With this exercise, NATO responds to development - now I mean this Saber Strike exercise - to the security environment and presents the coherence and readiness of the Member States to collective defence. It's so that I don't exceed a lot of time. In short, I can fill in the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u95	Thank you. Will the Member ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u96	I'd still go back to the possibly loaded sharp ammo, whether it's in the vehicles, and then why, if it's supposed to be a fast move that lasts a few days, so what's the tactical significance of not being used by the air force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u97	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u98	The movement concerns mainly Hummer vehicles and Striker vehicles, trucks, containers, also self-propelled howitzers, and ammo is in those containers. It is ensured in a standard manner for compliance with all strict standards. So there's no danger in that sense. He participates in this whole - I think I have not answered that in the first block - in cooperation with the military police of course and the transport police of the Czech Republic. And I dare say that after this rather large shift last year, we have quite a solid experience with this, and I don't think that will mean a great deal of restrictions for citizens, which we always try to keep to a minimum. That's why the whole column is divided into nine currents. It's 500 people, 225 vehicles, roughly. And these nine sub-colons, let's say, are going to have 30-minute spacing between them. There are also selected stops at rest stations, so that it will disturb the smoothness of traffic as little as possible. Training - it can't be done in a nonstop way, it has some rules, some criteria, some technical requirements and so on. And, of course, the security that costs time. Security always costs some time. So the optimal way to use it is that after the first night at the barracks in Ruzyn, the next morning there will be training in the shootings. Then the transfer will continue to Vyškov and Práslavice and there it will be dedicated at least the following morning to those activities, including training on trainers, which I have already mentioned. The next day will continue training and only at the end of it, there are the beds two - yes. [[Time warning]] And on Monday, I think it's 30, now don't take me literally, it's Monday, and that's the day that the motorcade goes through Bohumín to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u99	Thank you and, please, next in line, Mr Nekl is to load his interpellation with the Minister of Agriculture. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u100	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members. I got my hands on a document that processed your Department of Agriculture. It's this document. [[He's pointing.]] It is an opinion on the discussion of the authorisation of genetically modified maize for representatives of the Czech Republic in the European Parliament. The Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed disagreed in support of the conclusion of the European Food Safety Authority that the use of genetically modified maize does not raise any safety concerns. This conclusion was also taken over by the European Commission. The European Parliament presents a motion for a resolution in which it considers that the Commission's draft implementing decision goes beyond its competence and requests that this proposal be withdrawn. For the record, the position of the States in the Standing Committee meeting on 25. 4. was the following: 10 countries for, including the Czech Republic, 13 against and 4 abstained. There is no room to quote the entire opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, which seems to be minority within the European Union. Just perhaps the last sentence from the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is - I quote: 'We recommend the Czech MEPs to vote against the motion for a resolution.' That's against the withdrawal of this motion from the hearing, I'm supplementing it. I ask, Minister, what led the management of the Ministry of Agriculture to support the Commission's proposal, when most countries disagree, has led to this. Among them, for example, Belgium, Slovakia, Poland, Germany, France, Italy, Hungary and others, due to concern about food and feed health risks. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u101	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, I must say that the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture in this area always try to hold up the expertise and all the scientific knowledge we have on the issue, namely we rely on the European Food Safety Authority, which always gives opinions on this issue. So if this authority gives the opinion that in the given situation, given the possibilities of knowledge, these foods and products of GMO production of maize or other crops are safe, then we take this opinion, of course, after consulting the authorities - the Scientific Committee of GMO and the Czech Commission of GMO, which are expert teams of people working under the gesture of the Ministry of the Environment, because it is the resort that is in charge of this issue in the Czech Republic as the main resort. And if these authorities also express that it is from the perspective of the current level of knowledge, the commodity grown and produced from it for food purposes, safe for human health and, where appropriate, safe for environmental impacts, we hold this expert opinion, even if we are a minority compared to other European countries. Because it is one thing to come today and say: GMO we do not want, and I often talk about it with my ministerial colleagues, but then I also ask them: and do you have an alternative if you do your country or the whole EU as a community of states where GMO production will be banned, do you have an alternative to providing a feed base for, for example, the entire animal production? Where do we get that much protein feed? These people are no longer able to give answers to that. So that's why, on this issue, which at first glance is very medially interesting, many people with no expertise express themselves to it, we really hold on to the things that today are able to tell us professional scientific capacities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Are you going to ask a follow-up question? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u104	I'll give an additional opinion. Maybe not a question. The answer, of course, is based on the material that you sent to our European Members, but I have a serious concern that it is part of such a salami tactic, where various recommendations or resolutions will gradually be adopted or various decisions, which will then form part of the TTIP Treaty, the agreement on transatlantic investment and trade cooperation between the EU and the United States of America. And because this agreement has a huge resistance in the countries of the European Union, with its citizens, I think it is precisely steps to take gradual action, and then it will come together and, in fact, the demand of the United States of America and the leadership of the European Union will be fulfilled, as they imagine. That's why I don't think I know if the Department of Agriculture accidentally fell for this tactical move. But that's a little question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u105	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u106	We didn't fall for a move. I have to say here also with respect to my profession, experience and professional training of a plant doctor, when gene manipulation began to be carried out more than 140 years ago by Johan Gregor Mendel, when he began to detect individual properties of pea genes and began to combine them in various ways so that it would be the highest possible benefit. We've been doing this for decades, and now, of course, for the last two decades, let's say, with a lot more intensity, because laboratory techniques have shifted us to completely different spheres of possibility, and we don't have to deal with everything today with semi-operating experiments on experimental plots. We didn't fall for anything in the TTIP area because there's a simple guarantee. If any Member State does not agree to the final TTIP form, for which we do not yet know how, for example. the agreement will be in the area of food safety, let's say the negotiations are not even in the middle, and I spoke on a visit last year, when I was in America, both with the main negotiator of the American Party and with the main negotiator of the European Union, and precisely in the area of food security and GMO, the negotiations seem to be the most complex. And if any Member State and its Parliament simply do not agree with the agreed form, then this treaty will simply never be ratified and will never enter into force. So we really have a lot of confidence here, citizens, that at the end of the process, we can say, we want it, it's fair, or we can say no. So here to talk about us falling for something or not falling for it, I refuse to do that. We strictly adhere to those things that are designed to protect consumer safety and health and to protect the environment, and on the basis of available knowledge and information, decide whether we want to go this way or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u107	I thank the Minister for his reply, and now I ask for another microphone, and that is Mr Grospič, to present his intervention on the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u108	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, like most of our fellow citizens, we have regrettably registered your participation as a member of the Czech Government at the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft convention, where you gave a speech that you started with the words 'dear', some media are saying 'loving compatriots' and in which you apologized once again for the expulsion of the Sudeten Němec in the postwar period. So I would like to ask you a few questions in this context, and that is how you yourself personally look at the postwar arrangement that was agreed at the Yalt Conference in August 1945. As you look further at the issue of post-war arrangement and the ongoing efforts of the Sudeten Němec, now gathered in various compatriotic associations in Austria or the Federal Republic of Germany, who were very actively involved in the absence of the Czechoslovak Republic in 1918, and then took advantage of the opportunity to break up the single Czechoslovakia, which was expressed, for example, by the last vote in the 1938 elections in the municipal elections in the votes for the Sudeten German party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u109	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u110	Madam President, fellow Members, thank you for this question. Maybe I could correct the introduction a little bit. As far as the response is concerned, at least the responses I'm getting are about 90 percent positive, and people thank me for being mature and for going to Nuremberg to this country meeting. But to your question. As far as the post-war arrangement or the 1938 elections are concerned, only if we look chronologically at the whole thing is an 80-seventy-year-old issue. This means that the people who had the right to vote at the time are all in eternity now. So the meeting that's currently taking place is either children or people born after the war. Thus, the children of that time, those who still remember the war and postwar events, are now about the age of 80. As far as the postwar arrangement is concerned, this is obviously one thing, but the following is a very interesting fact. After signing the Czech-German Declaration in 1997, I was invited by the then co-chair of the Czech-German discussion forum by Pavel Tigrid and his German partner Günter Verheugen to join this today's coordination board of the Czech-German discussion forum. One of the main tasks was to create a comparative study of legislation at the time, how individual countries faced the issue of German minorities on their territory and the issue of collaborators or war criminals. That makes a pretty clear difference. Countries that were later part of a free part of Europe with German minorities, such as: Denmark, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Italy, dealt with this issue by political optics. That means, war criminals, Nazis, collaborators were rightly punished, while countries that became part of the Soviet Empire were dealing with this issue with the optics of ethnicity. That is, there was no investigation of guilt or innocence, but only of ethnic origin, on the basis of which these people were expelled from their homes. And this often happened anyway, and here I can also speak on the basis of experience from my own family, that, for example, the žid of the German language, who had ever survived the Nazi rampage, were then assigned to new transports after returning from the concentration camp and, like this time, the Němec were therefore removed from their homes. This means that this principle of collective guilt based on ethnic origin is simply unacceptable and must be rejected. I didn't apologize for the expulsion, it was already done by President Václav Havel. I applied to this idea from 1990, as well as to the other continuity, I mentioned the Czech-German Declaration of 1997, which deals with this issue, then the gesture of the then Prime Minister Jiří Paroubek, the apology of the Sudeten German anti-fascists, on whom the fist of fate actually fell twice - at the time of Nazism for their political beliefs and after the war for their ethnic origins. Then Prime Minister Petr Nečas, in the Bavarian Land Assembly in 2013, also spoke on this topic, and the Deputy Prime Minister of our Government, Pavel Bělobrádek, last year in his video greeting at the Regional Association, also addressed this issue. This means that one thing is legal matters and one thing is excesses that have occurred. That really was violence of a very brutal nature. I think we can all imagine that things were really terrible. Of course, in the context of the Second World War and the crimes of Nazism, this can be understood to some extent, but it cannot be excused. And if I may, Mr President, you repeated the optics that the matter was going on at the time. That means you're talking about the Sudeten němec. They're not the Němec or the Čech or the žid. They're always specific people with specific responsibilities. Because if a person is born a member of one's ethnicity, he doesn't say anything about the quality of the person's life, but only about how he lives. [[Your time, Minister.]] Thank you. And unfortunately, that has not been investigated. So once again, I say as a nucleus, you can't put an equal between ethnic and political affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u111	Mr. Ambassador, are you going to ask an additional question? That's right, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u112	Thank you, Minister. Of course, I agree with you that there is no equality between political and ethnicity. However, the historical dimension is very serious and I think that in this context the whole regional association of the Sudeten German is very problematic because it raises and raises significant claims against the Czechoslovak Republic and the Czech Republic. In this context, it is not excluded that it will continue to take these steps. I would therefore like to know if you have any assurance that the German court will actually decide and confirm that the wording of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft will be deleted from the wording of the hovering of property claims against the Czech Republic, and whether this will not be done in fact, that is, leading to a reminiscence towards any other potential restitutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u113	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u114	Thank you. My participation was just an answer to the fact that these property requirements were removed from the statutes of the Sudeten German compatriotic association. This means that the vast majority even voted twice that it is simply impossible to question the property security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I think that's a pretty straightforward gesture. And we see that no property requirements have been implemented in practice and are not. It means that it's more like a kind of haunting by some kind of fancy fantasies that aren't real. The association has renounced this, looking into the future. And that was my philosophy, too. Of course, I have also dealt with those issues in the past, but I have basically said that we need to heal the wounds of the past so that we can build together a future that we can change in contrast to the past that we cannot change. And the challenges that await us in Europe are great. That was accepted. I am very pleased that this has also been accepted by the overwhelming majority of politicians here in our country. Of course, I consulted these things ahead of time, because these are not things that could be done in so-called guerrilla. And I am glad that, in fact, apart from your party, and in addition to - through Madam President - some of the isolated opinions, this has been accepted positively, which I see as ageing in our society, and I am glad for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u115	Thank you. Minister, I just point out that when it comes to interpellation, you can address the interpelling Members directly. Thank you. Now, to the microphone of Mr Vilímec, please give his interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u116	Madam Vice-President, Minister, I am addressing you with a matter which coincides with the circumstances of the territory of the electoral region in which we were both elected by a Member. This is the announced cancellation of the breeding station of the service dogs in Domažlice, which has been operating in Domažlice since 1962, i.e. more than half a century, and is to be cancelled at the end of this year. The reason is the transfer of this breeding station to Pracovic. It is interesting that the breeding station in Prackovice, which is in the Ústí Region, was closed in 2012 for economic reasons. Police management claims that the station building in Domažlice does not own and the current state of the station is unsatisfactory, but also the station in Prackovice has to be renovated. According to the employees of the breeding station in Domažlice, on the contrary, this station was abolished four years ago because the local runs were inadequate and the ground is allegedly contaminated. According to available data, 17 people work at the breeding station in Domažlice, and in addition to the head of the station and his representative they are civilian employees. The breeding station consists of 11 experienced instructors who engage in this activity very professionally and with great success. Of course, none of these people can go to Pracovice. They would have to leave Domažlice completely and go to a completely different region, which is hardly possible for them. I note that the breeding station, and you know that, is practicing and supplying German Shepherds to the entire police and partly to the mountain service, Customs administration and army. So, Minister, I ask you whether this breeding station must really be abolished, and at the same time I ask you to investigate this matter and to assess whether this breeding station of service dogs in Domažlice really has to end. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u117	I thank you for your answer and ask the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vilímč, I was still communicating with the Police President today in order to find out the details of the question. I understand that the breeding station has been there for years, that it has a tradition. If I remember correctly, it was created in 1954. The decision to move, not to abolish the cynological unit that falls under the Police Presidium, but to move it to the Ústí Region last year, I believe, in May. The Commission of the Police President, with the participation of representatives of the Regional Directorate of the Police, sat down as members of this Working Commission and assessed the options - either investments in Domažlice, where the last investments were 1994, not since then, so the building is not in a satisfactory state or the reopening of the facility in the Ústí Region. The committee finally decided to vote and decided that they should move to the Ústí Region. It is fair to say that representatives of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic of the Plzeň Region opposed. Even so, the committee had a majority of the votes to move it. I asked the police president today if it was a final decision. He told me that the construction work is currently underway in the Ústí building, which is said to be multiplely lower than the construction work in Domažlice. I asked him today to check the whole thing out to give me detailed numbers, and of course I'll send you the detailed numbers. But the position of the police, the police president to date, is that he agrees with the transfer, even for reasons that the economy works better for the facility in the Ústí Region. They claimed that the condition in Domažlice already contradicts the so-called zoo hygiene that the premises for dogs are cramped, that they do not have green areas to run, etc., etc. I'm going to get a whole lot closer, and I think within a week, a maximum of 14 days, I'd send you a letter explaining why and how, and if there are no major doubts, the process will continue. Those employees should either move within the police department to the Regional Police Directorate, so far a transition has been offered to one employee, which may have happened, and others have an offer to travel to the Ústí Region. I understand that it's 200 km and that it's very difficult to implement. This means that we will see to it that, if necessary, these people are employed by the police within the Pilsen Region. That's gonna be in the position report I'm sending you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u119	Thank you. The Member will not ask an additional question, so please take the next step. This is Mr Zahradník, who will give an interview to the Minister of Agriculture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u120	Madam President, I am addressing the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Marian Jurečka, with an interview on the following issue. This is a problem of subsidies to agricultural operators in the Czech Republic, which have not recently been paid or held by the State Agricultural Investment Fund. This fund does not pay the funds for 2015 at the usual dates and those farms that have fulfilled the conditions for granting subsidies have not yet received them in the past year. The farmers thought that this was an isolated, random problem, but it turned out to be a systemic problem and that eight months after the end of the season, the state owed 65 to 75 percent of the money for the work and activities carried out by those farmers last year. My question is, first of all, how do you want to address this situation, Minister? How do you deal with your officials, who have not been able to answer questions from affected farmers even after a long period of time and after repeated emergencies? Finally, where the funds provided by the EU to cover these agricultural subsidies lie. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u122	Thank you. I would like to say on this question and on the question that it is necessary to realise that last year there was also a reform of the common agricultural policy, or the first year of application practice. We have been preparing farmers for this in the long run that there will be changes here, where there will be far more so-called grant titles under the common agricultural policy, that is, there are titles for sensitive commodities, for greening, it is a far wider breakdown than it has been so far. So the farmer does not receive one area payment, which has been around CZK 6,000 in the last year, but will receive more payments linked to more activities if he meets them. I've had my share of funds paid out here today. I have one more thing to say. I told you this morning. In October last year, we presented to farmers and NGOs a schedule for all payments of these grant titles for 2015. They've been able to understand this in the long run, that we've kept the whole schedule as SZIF. Only in the case of one single payment, and this was the payment for the so-called Greening, when the deadline for payment of these subsidies by the end of February was to be found during January that our supplier of the IT system, one unnamed company, made a mistake in the formula for calculating the entire payment and the control mechanisms associated with it. Therefore, the reprogramming of this payment had to be made again and the payment was extended until the end of April. We apologized to farmers for that. However, we communicated the information immediately at the beginning of January when we heard the information. Today the situation is such as it is with regard to the basic payment of saps, it is paid, now I will say in the financial statement - 99.4% of farmers. As regards so-called LFA payments, these are farmers in naturally disadvantaged areas, 98,7 per cent of farmers are paid. As regards dairy payments, 99,41 per cent of the funds are paid. As regards payments for young farmers, 93,5 % is paid. Transitional national aid relating to livestock - 98 per cent is paid. And for greening, that's the most tilted measure, today is paid physically 86,7 percent of the money, with decisions already issued by SZIF being 96 percent. 96% of the amount of payment is subject to a decision and the farmer, if he wishes, can immediately waive the right to appeal and receive the money paid to the account in practically one calendar week. Here on this payment with wonder - so many farmers asked about it, but about a month ago there was a difference in the fact that 90 per cent of the decision was to be issued and only 70 per cent was paid because farmers did not give up the right to appeal. I have to say, I don't quite understand what you said here that most farmers didn't get paid. I've got a complete list of all the payments. [[unintelligible]] I'll leave it for you. You can take a closer look at it when we knew there would be a certain complication, so I had for example. in person negotiations with all banks in the Czech Republic that invest or respectively. the financing of agricultural holdings. That's where we gave the information in advance. They said, yes, we in this farmer, if they have a problem with the payments, we are ready to accommodate, one month to two instalments to postpone without penalizing them in any way. And then, in April, we opened up the opportunity to draw investment and operating loans from PGRLF for farmers, especially for those who have problems with checks. Those are some of the tenths of the percent that are missing up to 100 percent. That means an agricultural holding that doesn't have closed control, there's a problem, so it didn't get paid out. For them, we have made this mechanism so that they can borrow from PGRLF, if necessary, for a period before the entire administrative process of the end of the check is resolved so that they can bridge it. I think enough has been done for farmers in this. They were informed at a two-month or two-and-a-half-month long blackout at greening. We apologized for that. I apologize again, and we explained it to them. But I have to say, the whole payment pie doesn't make the greening 25 percent, the location the farmer gets. So it wasn't like they were missing the main money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u123	Thank you. Will the Member ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u124	Thank you. It looks like these farmers are complaining about something unjustly. But it's not like that. They just had problems. They still have them. That's not old. That's not some old information I have about late payments. And they are also interested in the fact that when does the money actually come from the EU? When do you get them into your account? When is SZIF getting it into the account and how long is it in the account before some, perhaps bureaucratic, delays are finally paid to farmers?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u125	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u126	I have to say, it's certainly not that it's unnecessary bureaucratic delays. We can pay the money when we're checked out at the farmer's, for example. verified with the livestock register to see if what we've been reported fits, because not everything can be checked completely physically. We're checking some samples from the farmers. With the fact that we don't have money in our account that the European comics would pay us back sometime in September. And here's 33 billion and you're going to split it up. We, of course, will also publish the timetable that we publish for farmers to the European Commission, which will gradually release funds to us, for example. At the turn of February, we were in a situation where we still had 600 miles. We are able to borrow CZK operationally from PGRLF so that we can cover the end of the year and the beginning of the new year so that we can pay the money so that farmers do not feel it, because at that moment we were unable to draw the money from the European Commission. So in this, we're acting really, really, really surgically. It's not like we're sitting on a bunch of money and not paying them off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u127	Thank you. I now ask Mr Soukup's microphone to present his interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u128	Madam President, Minister, Karlovy Vary is difficult to cope with the loss of Russian and Ukrainian clientele. The reasons are well known. The economic problems of both countries. Client agencies have begun to focus on other rich post-Soviet countries, such as: Uzbekistan. However, the big problem at the Czech Embassy is to get a vacancy in the EU Visapoint system to get a tourist, respectively. The spa guest could apply for a visa. Trouble is mostly summer. According to the staff of the representative office, the problem could be solved by the summer staffing of Visapoint. Agencies had a real opportunity to get around 700 clients from Uzbekistan for the coming summer, as I was told. They had air transport secured. Of course, contracts are likely to go away. Today it is almost clear that visas will not be available on time. Clients would pay almost 24 miles for accommodation and other services together according to agency data. Crowns. I don't count the cost of the tickets. Moreover, in shops and services, one client spends an incredible CZK 54,000 on average every day in this area. All of this can be deducted as losses. Minister, wouldn't it be possible for us to step up Visapoint in Uzbekistan, but also in Kazakhstan, there's a similar problem, couldn't we do something?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u129	Thank you. And I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u130	Hello. Yes, thank you for asking or interpelling. You actually answered the question of what the problem was, almost right at the beginning of your performance when you said the problem was the capacity of the Tashkent representative office. If I wanted to shorten the answer, the only solution really is to strengthen personnel capacity. And we're doing it right now. For one thing, the representative office will be supplemented by one station, a visa station, including a fingerprint reader, which is happening these days. And the other factor you just mentioned is that we will increase the systemization of the Tashkent representative office, another consular officer. This is actually what's happening at this point. And it's actually what you said, there's a shortage of staff. Moreover, the solution is that we have concluded a concession agreement with an external service intermediary in Tashkent, thanks to the solution here that you are implying, to the problem. This partially solved the problem. The possibility was created to transmit applications for residence permits where applications for Schengen visas are concerned. The problem is that despite all efforts, we have not been able to fulfil the contract because of Uzbek legislation. It does not allow for the selection of the visa fee by the concessionaire and its subsequent sending to the account of the competent representative office. So we now have another option that we consider using another visa destination to transfer visa fees. Specifically, we'd be dealing with this through Moscow's representative office. So that's one problem that might succeed there. And the only way to increase the capacity of Visapoint is by increasing the number of officials who are going to process it. The change that is happening at this point should improve the situation. He is also in charge of other countries, carrying out the visa agenda for Turkmenistan and Tajikistan, so the strain is also given by the fact that there are still applications coming together from other countries. [[16.50 hours]] As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, I'm not going to tell you exactly what's going on with the capacity, if we can also increase the capacity there. But in principle, if we want to improve the situation where we have Visapoint as the Internet application used for the registration of residence permits, it turns out that capacity increases are the only way to do this. You mentioned the problem of Karlovy Vary and guests. This, of course, is a matter that we also engage fairly consistently. In general, in the last year, we have managed to almost replace the capacity of former Russian visitors in the entire Republic in the spa places by those who are arriving today mainly from South Korea and from China. So in the rough figures, it was able to replace it. However, it doesn't rule out that there are places, and I think Karlovy Vary is an example where they don't quite have the impression that it replaced them, that it was just the replacement that was appropriate. So I think we're looking for ways to help where possible, and if clients are needed for a spa right in Uzbekistan and in this region, then we're really going to try to let them get into our spa. So some of the steps are in motion, and I think we can watch it together to what extent we can solve this problem. But it's serious, and I think I understand your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u131	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u132	Minister, thank you for your answer. Anyway, I'm a maximumist, so I'll ask. I made it all clear that there were around 700 clients, that there were air traffic and everything, and it's not really falling. Do you think there's any way we can save this situation for this year's contract?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u133	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u134	I can say that we intend to improve the situation this year, of course. This contract right here, I'm not going to tell you exactly, so we're going to have to look at it individually, whether it's possible or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u135	Thank you. Now allow me to load the apologies that have gathered here. From 16.45 for working reasons until the end of today's meeting, Minister Brabec apologizes for personal reasons today, for personal reasons Mr Heger apologizes for the afternoon meeting until the end of the day, for reasons of work Mr Válková apologizes for his apology, Minister Pelikán is present, for reasons of work Mr Šarapatka apologises for today's meeting, between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work Mr Korte apologises for family reasons from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, for reasons of family reasons Mr Miloš Babiš apologises for Mrs Golasowská, between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work Mr Lank, and from 14.30 to 16.30 today Mr Miloš Babiš apologizes. That was an apology. The next in line is Mr Šincl, who I do not see here, so his interpellation is failing. I will now ask Mrs Hnyková to give her interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, I am also very interested in the remuneration of workers in the health sector. I have worked in the service for many years, and I don't care how the situation in this area develops. Despite the increase in salaries during your ministry, salaries in this area remain at a very low level. You, too, must have noticed that there is a lack of workers in social services. The directors not only complain about this in the Zlín Region, but we also heard it at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy from representatives of the Association of Regions. What are you going to do about it? I would like to point out that, if there is no more significant increase in the salary assessment of social services workers, the quality of services will go down rapidly, and this is sad and unfortunately alarming for our future after years of intensive improvement. I would also like to draw attention to the long-term discrimination against these workers. They carry out the same work in direct care as nurses and ambulances in hospitals and are still evaluated in a different table. You know in what state of health users are admitted to the facility. What are you going to do with this discrimination and when will you fix it? As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you should not only respect and respect the rights of seniors and disabled people, but also respect the rights of employees in social services and eliminate discrimination that has been committed on them for years. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u137	Thank you, Madame. And now, to Mr Bendl's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u138	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, my question is simple, as I promised a few months ago, when I intersected you with the same matter, Minister, and this is a matter of building a railway link between Kladno and Prague, in short, a speedway that is interested in the whole part of Kladno and its surroundings, as tens of thousands of people commute to work here every day not only from Kladno to Prague but also from Prague to Kladno. So I want to ask you what's new in this matter, if some things have changed since the last time I asked you. And then, of course, I wonder to what extent the failure in the area of the EIA, the environmental impact of the construction, may also apply to this construction. To put it simply, what's new and when what's up to now, if any, is up to date, so that we know whether things have moved or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u139	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u140	Madam President, honourable Members. Mr Bendle, thank you for this question. I'm sure you know from my previous answers that a feasibility study on this connection was approved last year. SŽDC had to discuss the approved semi-surface variant between Veleslavín and Dejvice on the basis of the requirements, which was among other things the requirement of JASPERS. However, this discussion did not meet with success, there was a long-term supposed disapproval of Prague 6. In Prague 7, the willingness to find a compromise is higher. In the area between Veleslavín and Dejvice SŽDC therefore decided to explore the technical feasibility with an easier way of discussing the route in the territory and the variant that would lead in the section between Dejvice and Veleslavín in the tunnel. This would eliminate not only the negative effects of the operation, but also the construction itself, although, of course, at higher costs. However, this variant passing through the roofing rock massif would also allow partial shortening of the driving time. The disadvantage, of course, is the need for changes in territorial planning documentation, but overall, the expected ease of discussion would not mean a delay in time to start implementation. In other, less problematic parts of SŽDC currently processes updates of the preparatory documentation, then verification and verification will be requested and the EIA will be gradually initiated. In other words, we have decided that even though the economic evaluation of the tunnel between Dejvická and Veleslavín is not working out, we will discuss it. And here we are in a little bit of a clinch that the European Commission is saying, or our calculations and the European approved calculations say that the economic subsurface option will not pay off, but another probably will not be able to build. [[17,00 hours]] In any case, we are ready to proceed from Kladno, which means our priority is to bring or modernize at least the line to Veleslavín and to the airport. At worst, you could temporarily use the subway to Veleslavín and transfer to this station, which is probably not the most optimal case, but this is what it looks like. I have a feeling, but I'm gonna make it so clear to you that the EIA for this case is being processed under Act No. 100, so there's just a verification position. And on sections that are not problematic, that means Kladno up to Veleslavín, I think today it is asked for the territorial decision or it is being processed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u141	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u142	Thank you very much for your answer. I think that if it starts from Kladno towards Prague, at least something will start to happen because it's really being talked about and it's been working on the track for a very long time. I know that Prague 6 and Prague 7 logically have their interests, that they will probably push to make the fast track as little as possible bother, and that we should also have the courage to go the way you are talking about. The fact that this may not be economically working at this time, I believe that in the future, not only the Prague and Central Bohemia region must be paid off economically, because the number of persons transported and the interestingness of Prague, even after the modernisation of Ruzyne airport, suggests this. Thank you for the information. So when do you assume at least some loose terms that can be held 100%? [[The Minister gestures that they're not or doesn't know.]] But I'm sure you're working with some deadlines, so if you could say something about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u143	Your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u144	Dear Member, we are at this stage in the preparation of documentation for the zoning decision. I don't really want to go hunting these dates from memory right now. I suggest we send you the deadline in a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u145	Thank you. Now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Váhalová, to present her intervention to the Minister of Justice. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I would like to ask you about the current state of affairs of ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and at the same time its signature of the dependent downstream Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The submission report should have already been included in the interim review procedure by the end of April 2016. The reminder procedure was then 15 days and was to be submitted to the Government by the end of June at the latest for signature and consultation. In this context, I wanted to ask you whether the material is ready to be presented to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u147	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u148	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, the material is basically ready. [[10 Members and Members are present in the Chamber]] Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I returned it with one little reminder, so it will be settled there by the end of the week, and then it will go to trial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u149	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u150	Just a reminder, Minister. This contract is from 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u151	The Minister won't respond. Okay. Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Kovářová to give her interview to the Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u152	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have been given a rather serious initiative on the amendment to the Road Act, which we know under number 268/2015. This amendment has complicated life for many municipalities, since it does not allow the disposal of the sewer system into the body of communication other than local roads. Since most municipalities are logically intersected by a state or regional road, this is a big problem, because sewer systems must be connected and, somehow, these communications of the higher order cannot be missed. For municipalities and cities, this is a really serious obstacle. For example, because of this problem, they cannot benefit from subsidies for infrastructure construction. Dear Minister, does the Ministry of Transport know about this problem? Is he going to deal with it? When will he submit a proposal to the government? When to the Chamber of Deputies? And when is it expected to take effect? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u153	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u154	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kovářová, of course, the Ministry of Transport knows about this problem. However, it is a problem which the Ministry of Transport has in no way caused. Amendment to the Road Act, which brought this amendment to the provisions of § 36 para. 4, it was only proposed during the discussion of this law in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, by Senator Eybert. We rejected this amendment in plenary, but the Senate approved it, and therefore the approved version was approved by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, so it is valid. It's not a matter that the Department of Transport would like, or it would like to add to the adjustment. Now I'm going to do the lyrics. [[He reads from paper:]] The Ministry of Transport takes the view that the provision in its effective wording now interferes with the current practice of placing civil engineering networks in road roads, but it is still possible to impose the management in accordance with § 36 para. 2 and 3 of the Road Act, i.e. to road auxiliary land. I'm not reading it here. [[It shows in the paper.]] In other words, how do we fix this? The Association of Towns and Municipalities seeks to remedy the situation, its aim is to return § 36 para. 4 to the original form, i.e. effective before 30 December 2015, by means of a draft law. In this effort, the Union of Towns and Municipalities has full support from the Ministry. For your information, we wrote the proposal, it's ready. Now all that matters is the Union of Towns and Municipalities, how and which Members will receive for the submission of this amendment. Or not, that's the draft of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u155	Thank you. The honourable Member will not ask an additional question. Thank you. I ask Mr Holeček's microphone to present his interpellation to Minister Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u156	Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you, like Mrs Hnyková, on a bad phenomenon of recent times, in cases where 15-year-old boys and girls run away after elementary school with an unabated report card to the unemployment office. This is an increasingly common phenomenon in our Ústí Region, which is why you will have to solve this problem. So I'm asking you how we can prevent it. Do you think it is the solution to deny benefits to persons under the age of 18 or to extend compulsory schooling? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u157	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Adamová, who is already coming to present her intervention to the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u158	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to your coalition partners, the ANO Coalition Treaty broke yesterday by not being united in the vote on the Government's proposal for health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances, so-called. anti-smoking law. In the media, you defended the movement by not voting on the proposal as a whole, as the tobacco lobby influenced ČSSD members who voted in favour of the opposition amendment, namely Mr Marek Benda, who turned the anti-smoking law into smoking laws. I am aware that you have not been present for the vote and that therefore you do not have an overview of how your Members voted. However, when your media advisors advised you on this argument, they forgot to tell you that eight members of the ANO movement, including your President, Mr Faltýnek's MP, also voted in favour of the vicious opposition proposal, i.e. in quotation marks. Dear Minister, if you say that naughty Members voted in favour of Mr Marek Benda's amendment, it means that such a tobacco lobby has also been influenced by members of the ANO movement and that the tobacco lobby has impressed and influenced, among other things, the tobacco lobby. and the chairman of the ANO MP's club? I'm sure you are discussing individual proposals within your club, and I'm sure you're also talking back on this matter, and you're wondering why eight Members from your club voted in favour of this proposal. So can you tell us what kind of explanation you received from these colleagues? I assume you will argue that Mr Faltýnek and seven other members of the ANO movement were not about malice. Therefore, I directly attach an additional question and I very much ask that you do not avoid the answer to it as your favorite tactic, but really answer it. Do you have any evidence for your claims that Members have been maligned by the tobacco industry? Can you be specific about that? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u159	Thank you and I now ask Mr Hovorka's microphone to present his interpellation to the Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u160	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, as a reason or reason for the proposed abolition of the training field, the Ministry of Education presents the following three reasons: adverse demographic developments in the field, increasing the need for transparency between disciplines and compatibility with the European system of doctoral education. Are there any other reasons for disturbing this teaching field? Is the objective of abolishing the field to ensure sufficient doctors to provide emergency services? Do you consider reducing the amount of practical teaching in the newly prepared education programme to be a step in the right direction? Do you consider that the current care of children and youth in the ambulances of practical doctors for children and adolescents is not provided enough? And how it will improve, if necessary, following the abolition of the education programme in this field. When preparing a draft amendment to Act No. 1995/2006 Sb. did the ministry verify the satisfaction of both parents and care payers with care for children and adolescents, or did not verify? Why are you interrupting an educational field with over 2,000 doctors? Do you currently consider childcare and youth in the Czech Republic to be sufficient and quality compared to the countries of the European Union? Do you expect to increase or decrease the number of doctors in hospitals and in the field after the withdrawal of the practical doctor's training programme for children and adolescents, and how will this increase or decrease be achieved? So I ask you to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u161	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me answer briefly. First of all, the Department of Health isn't disturbing anything. That amendment is in the draft Act No. 95, which is currently in the Health Committee, and which field remains or will not remain, will be decided by Members both within the Health Committee and, of course, here in plenary. That's one. Two. What leads us to believe that it would be good to return to standard European practices and have one field of pediatrics is that we believe that the permeability between hospital and outpatients will only be for the benefit of patients and their parents, because we do not consider it completely normal that, for example, the head of the children's department with 30 years' experience, with a huge erudition, he does not have the expertise to operate an ambulance for children and adolescents. There's absolutely no medical reasons for that. And it is probably no coincidence that such a department of the outpatient and hospital sphere is nowhere in the world, and we do not see why this should be the case in the Czech Republic. In addition, both the fields, both hospitally but to a much greater extent the field of outpatient care for children and adolescents, are in a rather difficult personnel situation. In the field of pediatric pediatrician, the average age of those doctors who are there is even higher, and we think that there is nothing against anything to make the permeability both ways here. We believe that the field will become more attractive than for those who want to work in the hospital for some time and then move into the field or vice versa. After all, the misinformation that some officials of the Association of Practical Physicians for Children and Puppets release to the public, that we cancel the place of a practical physician for children and in the system, is simply not true. We're just unifying education. I will give an example of another field, which is also very different between the hospital and the terrain, such as gynecology and obstetrics, where outpatient gynecologists have a certificate from the whole of gynecology and obstetrics, do not have separate education, do not have a separate certificate, and I think it is so good. I have long discussed with representatives of practitioners and for children and adolescents, asking lay, common sense: What is the difference in your field? How is the pediatrics in the ambulance and the hospital or the hospital emergency room different? I've been informed that they have a different administration and that they have vaccinations. I have to say that I have not found any expert arguments, and I think that it is a very sophisticated lobbying for those officials, and I must say that I find it very unethical that parents are involved in this dispute, they sign a petition in the ambulances and inform them that child care is threatened, because, of course, every parent will sign to his doctor what he will require because he is not in an equal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u163	Thank you. Will the Member ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u164	Yes, of course, Minister. The field is not interrupted as such, but in the proposal that goes to the House, a practical doctor for children and adolescents is proposed to cancel the educational field. That's an undeniable fact. Since 2004, there have been no education in this field for five years, and then over the seven years, two hundred doctors have been raised through residences, sixty doctors have been entering the field for the last three years and 50 have been testing. So I think that's a sufficient number. One basic question: Why, in those surrounding countries where there is one pediatrician and where it is said that this is systemic, why there are such a lack of pediatricians in primary care, that practical doctors can take care of children only until they are 12 or 15 years old, and why, therefore, older children are provided by practical physicians for adults or family doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are not really interrupting this field, that we are uniting it and that the people who will have a unified pediatric system will have it for both the terrain and hospital care. And we could talk about different systems of primary care in different countries, where it is largely due to some cultural historical tradition. Just in some countries he was called. a family doctor who provided care for everyone from, let me put it simply, from the cradle to the grave. And it got separated somewhere. [[17.20 hours]] I have to say, what the Member here was talking about, why it is up to 18, elsewhere it is up to 15, I remember that it was largely a helpful step towards practical doctors for children and adolescents, because unlike, let's say, many years ago, when those doctors were enough, so the number of children in ambulances was not always sufficient and they were interested in providing care as long as possible. But I don't think there would be any major problem if, at 15 years of age, a practical adult physician took care of that person. But it may as well remain the model that is cared for by a general practitioner for children and adolescents. But I just want to stress again, we're not making any major revolutions. The system that's set up here will stay. There will remain practical doctors for children and youth, only they will have wider eruditions and, in case of interest, they can change their assignment to the hospital, and, on the contrary, in case of the interest of doctors with erudition from the hospital, experienced people, they can easily go into the field. I see it more as a strengthening of the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u166	Thank you. Now, to Mr Adamec's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Minister of Transport, who apologized from the intercession at 17 o'clock. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent, Minister. Los is a lottery ticket. There's nothing we can do about it. The minister called it in. Of course, I have asked questions about myth, virtually. I'm putting them down now because I've always pointed out that we're watching this. And I've been intersecting the Prime Minister. I think it's such an important subject that we need to keep an eye on him. What happened to me? So I already have the answer to the interpellation without saying it because the minister's officials were active. And I wanted to say that I don't require a written answer to part of the myth. But as far as the EIA is concerned, I would still like to hear ideas there, because the myth will be discussed on the Economic Committee 18. 6. how will continue after 2016. Because resources for construction and maintenance of roads and even transport infrastructure will end, so it is necessary to ensure this in a different way, by the right choice of myth. And as far as the EIA is concerned, I have to say that I see with the EIA as a big problem the government's idea of fixing what went wrong a few months ago, maybe years ago, and I don't want to go back to the past, that it will fix it by naming some sections of transport infrastructure that the EIA won't have to repeat. I'm really not such an idealist, and I don't think that's possible. I'm interested in deadlines, deadlines, even if there's something in the answer I've been given preliminarily. Nevertheless, I would insist on more detailed processing here, because the EIA is a really serious problem that can jeopardise the development of the economy, which also means the standard of living of the Czech Republic. So maybe a reminder, but that, of course, is not in the competence of Minister Took. I would like to ask you how it looks with the amendment to the construction law or with the new construction law. Because it was supposed to be part of three laws, which was the Public Procurement Act, the EIA Act and the Building Act, so that we could solve the whole issue comprehensively. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for dragging your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u168	Thank you, and please, to Mr Mackovík's microphone, to present his intervention to the Minister of Justice. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a real chance that a separate regional court will be established and will operate within the Liberec Region. Because the judicial agenda is currently divided so that there is a branch of the Regional Court in Ústí nad Labem in Liberec and the agenda from Semil is dealt with by the Regional Court in Hradec Králové. That means it's a little bumpy. I know that the Liberec Region is a small region, but it has its own Regional Police Directorate, which has proven itself. And I think there's a so-called existence. the county court's own judgment would be of great benefit. At the same time, we also know that it should probably not be a big problem for staff. As for the equipment of the court, about 15 years ago a new judicial palace was built in Liberec, which certainly corresponds to the conditions for the function of the Regional Court. This means is there a real chance that we will also have a separate regional court in the Liberec Region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u170	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u171	Thank you, Madam President and the remaining ten brave ones. Thank you for the question. The question is good, but not in the right direction, because that question should be addressed to this House. Here since last year, I am looking for a date in vain, but perhaps since June 2015, there is a House press 539, which aims to set up a Regional Court in Liberec. The Ministry of Justice has taken a positive view of this House press because we believe that, unlike other administrative regions where only regional courts are branches, Liberec, given the difficult transport accessibility of Ústí nad Labem, given the development of the branch and many other circumstances, the difficulties of the Ústí Region from the point of view of justice, are so exceptional that it really deserves a new regional court to be set up there. However, this has not succeeded in the government, so that the government as such, albeit only the majority, has given a very tight majority a negative opinion on this House press. However, it's in your hands. The press is here, they're not moving. If it moves, if the Chamber of Deputies approves, and as I say, it has my support, we are prepared to set up a regional court there and it will not be a problem in terms of administration of justice at all. On the contrary, he will help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u172	Thank you. I ask the Member - he does not want to ask an additional question. Therefore, to the microphone of Mr Holeček, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u173	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the complaint sent to me by the mayor of Vejprty in the Ústí Region. The complaint concerns mainly the low tide of skilled labour in the border areas to the Federal Republic of Germany. It is the drain of workers in all areas of life. Social workers, health workers, officials, technical staff in private companies and so on. The main and, in fact, the only reason everyone is stating is the level of wages in the euro exchange rate. Therefore, they do not mind that they are working on a much less skilled, if not inferior work, where the minimum wage is three times higher than they can offer with regard to the table wages and salaries of employers in the Czech Republic. So, what happens to the border? Good and capable people leave and there is no one to replace them in the municipalities, because people with the necessary qualifications that are legally necessary simply are not. And we can't even offer them comparable adequate salaries. They also have no one to replace in the firms of good employees, and they prefer to shut down the company in the border areas. Then what? Is that where we want life to develop in border regions? Is it really necessary for export to artificially hold an undervalued crown against the euro? Thank you for your response and for this initiative of the mayors in my region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u174	Thank you and I now ask Mr Adamec to give his interpellation to the Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent minister, I would once again like to thank you for giving me a written reply without intersecting at least part of my question. Personally, I very much welcome the fact that it may finally be possible to transfer the train station to the railway road. It has its logic, it's part of the liberalisation of the rail market. And I'll admit that at the time of five or six years ago, when I was a member of the board of directors of SŽDC, we've already talked about this here. And of course, since the Czech Railways are a joint-stock company, even if it is owned by the State, it is not possible to transfer assets from the State directly to a joint-stock company. It needs to be sold. And here I see a bit of a problem. The property is sold at 3.3 billion. And it's not two stations yet, one is Masaryk's, the other is Brno's station. One of the property rights reasons, the other of the uncertainty of the station's position in the future. [[17.30 hours]] But the price estimate, the European Commission said, because the higher price would be so-called. unlawful public support. I don't know how they got that number, but they probably have a methodology for it. And now it has actually been sold, you say, Minister, that it has transferred, on the basis of a government resolution, but by carrying out financial transactions there, I see it as a bit of a problem, if the price does not correspond to the market price or the price according to an expert opinion, whatever methodology it is. Aren't you concerned that this process can be stopped for these very reasons? In addition, CPI's activity with Radovan Vítek led me to this, because of course they would touch this pie. And I would very much hate for the whole issue to crash on the basis of these problems that I have been discussing here. You just need to transfer the station to SŽDC, and you need someone to start taking care of them, because in the few years it didn't work out, she's been failing. And I have to say, it still bothers me that it is not intended - and you yourself say that it is a matter of management of the Czech Railways - how they deal with the money they have taken. [[Your time!]] I would appeal to that because the debt didn't come from those stations so that much of this money would be used to modernize the fleet. Thank you for your attention. Sorry for the drag.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u176	Thank you, and please, to Mr Bendl's microphone, to present his interpellation to the Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u177	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, my question is simple and concerns the projected increase in health wages by 10 per cent, which the government has committed itself to strengthening such funds or such funds in the health sector. I think it is commendable that there is a need, in particular, for medium-sized health personnel to feel some financial change on their wages, in order to be helpful in maintaining the stability of health care provision to citizens in this respect. But I want to ask you how much money you have secured, and since when it will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u178	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this interview. I'm just going to make it a little bit more precise that behind this 10% increase in salary rates for all health professionals, there is no government decision, but it is the promise of all coalition party leaders, but the result is similar in the end effect. I must say that, as Minister of Health, I am not yet absolutely sure and calm that the funds are already decided and secured. The moment it happens, I'll be much calmer. The decisive moment for this should now be Monday's government meeting, where it will decide on some basic budget award for 2017, respectively. where the government should discuss - and I firmly believe that it will behave responsibly and approve an increase in payments for state insured persons to the public health insurance system, as the law requires, i.e. by 30. 6th of this year. Because if we go after those numbers, that 10% increase in tariffs means a minimum increase for hospitals sometimes worth 6.5 billion. Crowns. And taking into account some prediction of the economic development and the associated autonomous growth of insurance premiums from employed and self-employed persons, that means that if we were to estimate the required rate of increase for state insured people plus, say, some development of hospital care, we're somewhere at the number of about 5 billion. Crowns, 4.5 to 5 billion. And I firmly believe that all the presidents of the coalition parties who supported this increase, including the Minister of Finance, to say the same to A, will also say the B and support the increase in payments for state policy holders, because, through Madam President, as you know, any increase in premiums will certainly not be expected to be given to the hospital sector. There's an outpatient sector, there's a need for new drugs, expensive biological medicines in central care, etc. So if the state makes, say, a very positive and necessary gesture to hospital staff, then it needs to be financially secured, and I firmly believe that the government will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u180	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, are you going to ask an additional question? That's right, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u181	Thank you. So there should be a final word on Monday, even with regard to the deadline, if I understand correctly. Well, then initials A and B, when you say A was said B could be said. Andrej Babiš has A and B in his name, so let's hope it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u182	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Hovorka to give his interview to the Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u183	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, mayors of municipalities and citizens from the municipalities of Janovice nad Úhlavou and Nýrska have approached me with a request to examine the authorisation process to permit the extraction of gravel sand in the upper river Úhlava, the exclusive bearing of gravel sand Petrovice nad Úhlavou. Mayors point out that in the 1970s there was an examination of the condition of gravel sand deposits in the upper stream of the river Úhlavy and subsequently a protected bearing area and an exclusive gravel sandstone bearing of about 100 hectares, with an average power of about eight metres. Klatovské pebble sands company, s.r. o, gradually bought most of the land concerned from the owners and since the 1990s they have been trying to declare the Bystřice nad Úhlavou conquering area. The original design for the whole area of the bearing with the majority transport of gravel-sand by rail train after a series of submission, rejection, modification of the assignment and its further discussion, when the company gradually corrects and removes the impenetrable points in the submission, has currently settled on the assumed area of extraction of 27,5 hectares over the period of 16 years with exclusively truck transport, when 80 per cent of extracted gravel-sands will be transported through Janovice nad Úhlava according to the submitted documentation. Klatovské pebble-sand, s. r. o., has already obtained a number of materials that I have passed on to you. Mayors are worried about high traffic loads, noise and dust. They also point out that existing communications on such a burden are not built, and they point out that extracted gravel sands will actually be exported, so we will give up our national wealth. I ask you to act on this matter and, if necessary, to comply with the mayors and citizens of the municipalities of Janovice and Nýrska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u184	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Kovářová to give her interview to the Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u185	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, my intervention concerns the new parts of the strategic noise maps that were prepared by the State Health Institute last year. The agglomerations of Pilsen, Ostrava, Ústí nad Labem, Teplice, Liberec and Jablonec nad Nisou, Olomouc, as well as the main railway lines and roads and Václav Havel Airport, of course also Prague and Brno. The maps show that extralimite noise mainly from transport bothers tens of thousands of people in selected locations. According to available information, the limit value of road traffic noise is exposed to around 50,000 people on the territory under observation, almost 11,000 more at night. Prague and Brno are not included in these numbers. The aim of the maps is to identify these critical points so that improvement measures can be developed through action plans. According to my information, these maps were transmitted by the Ministry of Health to the regional authorities and the Ministry of Transport, which have to process action plans within 12 months. If I am not mistaken, this deadline will be over quite soon. In some cases, action plans can, of course, be completed. And that is where my question is headed, Minister. What is the current state of preparation for these measures? Can any of them be listed? And what will be the further development in this matter? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u186	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me answer the question of strategic noise maps and the preparation of action plans. This means that these matters are primarily in the hands of the regional authorities and the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Health does not directly have this information. The responsibility for preparing the action plans is on the part of their buyers, i.e. the regional authorities and the Ministry of Transport. The action plans are only transmitted to the Ministry of Health for the creation of a comprehensive report for the European Commission. The prepared action plans should be transmitted by the regional authorities and the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Health by 30 at the latest. 11. 2016. Of course, the moment we have them, and what we will have, we will be happy to provide the lady. I just think it is important to stress that realization is, in fact, mainly and primarily in the competence of those buyers. The biggest burden is then at the Ministry of Transport, which represents the operators of the largest sources of noise, i.e. the Directorate of Roads and Motorways and the Railway Infrastructure Administration. The revised action plans shall be made publicly available on the customer's website upon completion and may be submitted to the public within 45 days of posting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u188	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u189	Dear Minister, thank you so much for your answer. Let me ask you one more question, which has a close relationship with the Ministry you run. In recent weeks, I have been recording more and more of the visits of the Minister of Finance Babiš to various health establishments. Bad languages say he's checking out hospitals whose acquisitions he'd like to carry out. The fact is, however, that these facilities are actually visited primarily as a member of the government. And in this context, it won't give it to me, and I have to ask, isn't it interfering, Minister, with Minister Babiš in your portfolio? Or, with a little exaggeration, is it that he visits hospitals so often, means a role-changer, and we're going to be seeing you in, like, financial offices anytime soon? I don't like it very much either way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u190	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me only a short reply here. Indeed, I have noticed my colleague's activities, of course. I understand it's a bit of a connection to the regional elections. Although it is true that I have recorded photographs of the Minister of Finance in a white coat and with a fontoscope on his neck. Maybe here I'll skate a little bit into an area where I'm not at home, some kind of psychological. We were all children once. Boys often wanted to be astronauts or garbage men in kindergarten, someone may have wanted to become a doctor and it didn't come true within the future career path. So, somehow, they're trying to realize these childhood dreams now, and maybe it'll end up eventually with a career change. You never know. We're short of doctors. Maybe we could strengthen it. And it's true that some colleagues have told me that I should start visiting the financial authorities from the logic of the matter and ask what they do or don't do. First of all, I have to say that the work we have at the Ministry of Health has really gone overboard and that I would not consider this to be a fair use of time for our employers, who are voters and citizens. Secondly, I often think it's good to always say the good old shoemaker, stick to your hooves. And I'll admit to you that I probably wouldn't be able to get into a situation where I would give wise advice at these financial offices about things that I have no idea about, and I'd be making the most of the smiles of the staff gathered if I were to advise them about things that I don't know anything about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u192	Thank you. Now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Váhalová, to present her intervention to the Minister of Justice. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u193	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Minister, in mid-May, a meeting was held in Berlin of the Network of Parliamentaries against Violence against Women by the Committee on Equality and Non-discrimination of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The negotiations focused on the current calls for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention, by the Member States of the Council of Europe. This agreement is very important because it is the only international agreement dealing with this growing problem. A modern aspect of this Convention, for example, is the introduction of a set of definitions of criminal offences such as forced marriage, stalking, and many others. In this context, I would like to ask you what is the current status of the ratification of this agreement, which has already been approved by the Government on 8 February 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u194	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u195	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members, yes, we take this convention very seriously. For this reason, it was finally signed by the Czech Republic. We think that, after all, even in the context of the migration development - I would no longer be talking about the migration crisis today, so we are done with God. But God knows we don't have her in front of us, do we? However, with some increase in migration, our criminal law needs to be actually prepared and known for the crimes and to enforce our European concept, which undoubtedly includes clear NO to any violence against women. So, as I say, the treaty has already been signed through the incomprehensible dissenting position of the KDU-ČSL for me. Therefore, work is under way on the legislation, where the Government's resolution ordered me to submit these measures by 30 June 2017 at the latest, with Parliament's approval of ratification scheduled for submission of the agreement itself by 30 June 2018. I believe we can do it faster, but we have a lot of homework, so I don't know how much. But I believe it's faster. These are some of the last data we've stored it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u196	Thank you. Will the honourable Member ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u197	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have already responded similarly to me this way, assuming that the signature will take place in the first half of 2016 that it will be ready. So I just hope it's 31. 6. We'll actually make it. And I would like to appeal to us to try to accept this convention before 2018 or mid-2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u198	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u199	I'm just saying, I've done this before. That we're past the signature, and now we're on our way to ratification. I'd like it to be sooner, too. I can't promise you that. But otherwise, as you can see, I'm trying to keep that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u200	Thank you. And now again, I will ask Mrs Váhalová to give another interview to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u201	So this is the last time, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask about the current developments and the submission deadline for ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Organs, which was opened and signed by the Czech Republic on 25 March 2015. This international convention prohibits illegal organ procurement for transplantation and I am very pleased that the Czech Republic has actively engaged in action against such a serious crime and has been among the first signatories to the convention. But when, Minister, will this convention be presented to the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u202	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u203	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, I must say that I am glad that you are interpelling me like this, because sometimes I feel that nobody cares about our activities in this area. So I see that at least someone is watching her with really special details. We originally had a deadline to justify the conclusion of the Convention by 31 October 2015. However, it had to be postponed because there is a link to the law on the criminal liability of legal persons, which was then stuck in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, this task has been extended to me from year to October 31, 2016. Now, finally, you know that a few days ago, the law on criminal liability of legal persons was finally passed, so there is nothing to prevent further action. I therefore believe that I will definitely complete the task by 31 October 2016. Unfortunately, I don't have another scheduled schedule in the background, but as soon as possible, everything will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u204	The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u205	Once again, I appeal, Minister, to accelerate the procedure. And I'll see you next Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-007-232.u206	Thank you. We've exhausted all the interpellations. Allow me, before I interrupt the hearing, to load Mr Kolovratník's apology, who apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 pm for working reasons until the end of the day. At this point, I am interrupting the House meeting by tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we should continue with the third reading block points. For the 13th hour we have firmly classified printing assistance in material distress, first reading. Thank you for your presence and have a nice evening.
