ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u1	260. Oral inhalation intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, I have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I am now giving the floor to Mr Petr Bendl, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr Petr Kořenek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, my intervention concerns the appointment of senior civil servants in accordance with the service law, or if you prefer not to comply with the service law. I have been very busy following the case of the Energy Regulatory Authority, where Mrs Vitásková is allegedly being prosecuted for naming Dr. Vesecká in violation of the service law, since she was supposedly not to meet the selection criteria in terms of length of practice and is running there according to the Police of the Czech Republic perhaps some criminal complaint and criminal proceedings. A similar situation has been presented several times in the media and concerns the State Land Office, where the Director of the State Land Office allegedly does not have and does not fulfil the condition of the length of practice to perform such a high function, while nothing is happening in this matter. I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, if it isn't a double standard. It's kind of handy once, and it's not. Or what is your opinion of this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u3	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I have requested the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on this matter, so I would like to introduce you to this position. However, first of all, I would like to say that one of the objectives of the Service Act was for politicians not to influence service relations, or to influence them only with top officials, in a legal way. The appointment of the Central Director or Central Director of the State Land Office is under the authority of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, whose superior body is the Deputy Minister of Interior for Civil Service, in this case Dr. Josef Postránecký. Therefore, this deputy cannot be politically involved in this system. I therefore requested the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on this particular matter, which, after all, has already been mediated, that is, I was informed from the media that there are such doubts, so I asked the Ministry of the Interior to comment on the circumstances of the appointment of the Central Director of the State Land Office. This matter has already been dealt with by the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service. He dealt with this already on the initiative of Mr David Ondráčka, Director of Transparency International, the Czech Republic, who actually turned to him in May this year. The Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Civil Service assessed the matter and did not find any facts that could lead to the initiation of the review procedure in this case. He gives the following reasons why he didn't find doubt here. The subject matter of the assessment was whether the engineer Svatava Maradová could have been appointed to the post of official of the Central Director of the State Land Office on the basis of the relevant announced tender if she did not fulfil the presumption of practice set out in the cited provision of the Act. In this regard, it should be noted that in the case of the so-called recompetitive operation of the management of the service bodies pursuant to Section 186 (1) (b) of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the following conditions shall apply: A public servant who has been employed for at least three years in an administrative office, a local authority, an institution of the European Union or an international organisation of activities pursuant to Section 5 or similar activities may participate in the selection procedure for that post. According to Article 51 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. For a period of three years from the expiry of that period, a person who has been appointed to a fixed-term service post shall be considered as meeting the conditions for participation in the selection procedure for the same or lower stage of the procedure. According to Article 186 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) 4 in conjunction with that cited in Section 51 paragraph. 4 The Civil Service Act may also participate in the selection procedure by a civil servant, even if it does not satisfy any of the conditions of participation in the selection procedure under § 25 para. 1 of the Civil Service Act. Thus, for example, a superior who does not qualify for the appropriate degree of education may take part in the selection procedure. Therefore, if I rely on the relevant provisions of the Civil Service Act, as is valid today, then engineer Maradová was already at the time of the tender procedure as the central director of the State Land Office and in accordance with Section 186 para. However, until such time as this post is filled under the relevant procedure, that is to say, re-competitiveness, the Civil Service Act was considered to be a head of the Service Office. On the basis of the exception provided for by § 51 para. 4 The Civil Service Act Maradová the opportunity to participate in the selection procedure, even if it did not fulfil the legal practice requirement. All of the above also follows from the Methodical instruction of Deputy Minister of Interior for State Service No. 6 of 2015 of 17 August 2015 laying down the details of the selection procedures for the occupation of civil servants and of the leaders. According to the Ministry of the Interior's statement, it is therefore irrelevant whether engineer Maradová fulfilled or failed to fulfil the requirement of legal practice, as an existing head of the Service Office, on the basis of the above mentioned need not meet it. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, in assessing whether Mrs Maradová thus fulfilled all the legal requirements, could not have acted otherwise than to evaluate engineer Maradová as an applicant who complies with the requirements under the law, on the grounds that the opinion of the above-mentioned superior service body, that is to say, the Deputy Minister of State Service, is binding on the matter. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u5	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u6	So all civil servants are equal, but some are more equal. If I find that someone doesn't meet the legal requirements for him to have sufficient practice, I'll grant him an exception, and that's it. Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u7	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u8	Thank you. The Act provides for this possibility under § 51 para. 4. This interpretation is also confirmed by a binding methodology issued by the Deputy Minister of Civil Service at the Ministry of the Interior. That means, we have the provisions of the law here, we have a binding methodology here, which says that whoever holds this position of service has the opportunity to apply for a tender, even if he does not meet the necessary requirement of practice. That's how the law defined this thing. Just maybe to doubt if there's a different meter involved with the Energy Regulatory Authority. If the information I have is correct, Mrs Vesecká has been appointed Vice-President of the ERU on 4 November 2014 and this has not yet been an effective service law. That means there was no effective service law at the time. According to what appeared in the media, where the problem was seen by the police, Mrs. Vesecká did not meet the conditions under the Energy Act. That means, here's the regulation that's not given by the Civil Service Act, but by the Energy Act. Moreover, the Vice-Presidents of the Energy Regulatory Office are not subject to the Civil Service Act today. This means that it has not really been applied here, nor can the Civil Service Act be applied, and there is an adjustment concerning energy, the Energy Act, and that is probably why this matter is assessed in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will now ask Mr Kořenko to give his interview to the Prime Minister. Mrs Bohdalová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, as we all know, health care is a sector that somehow affects every citizen of our country. In order to ensure the quality of health care, there must also be sufficient remuneration, which is the motivation of health workers among others. I therefore ask how the government takes care of our health care to be stable, effective and to continue to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u11	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u12	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, Madam Vice-President. I agree with you that the health sector is actually one of the most important for which the government is naturally responsible. We have been trying for the last two and a half years to stabilise the health care situation. This means that the basic steps we took were to ensure affordable quality health care for patients. And in order to ensure that quality care is available, we have taken steps that have supported this availability. I want to remind you that, on the basis of the government's programme and coalition contracts, we have also abolished health fees, reducing the tax burden on medicines. This means that there the tax burden decreased from 15 percent of the value added tax to 10 percent of the value added tax. We have also made some other changes. For example, we extended the reimbursement of spa care from health insurance and focused subsequently on improving the personnel situation in health care. If I were to identify the major health problems that exist today, it is an overload of current personnel in a number of hospitals. Overload of nurses, overload of doctors, lack of doctors in some fields of health care provision, which mainly affects regional hospitals. The problem is that both nurses and doctors are leaving. What attracts doctors more is private practice. Because the moment you have a private practice, you have a chance at a significantly higher income than when you work as a doctor in a hospital. What does not help us too much is the loss of graduates or graduates of high schools that have occurred in recent years. And naturally, as the labour market situation improved, it creates much more competition for all the people who work in health today. And I don't mean just nurses, but I mean other medical personnel or technical staff who work in hospitals, simply because the private sphere is capable of offering much higher salaries today than it was in the past. The key measure was therefore financial stabilisation. I would like to remind you that we have repeatedly increased the payments for state insured persons coming from the state budget. These payments have not been audited in recent years, and this has given rise to some underfinancing of the entire health care system. That means we've compensated for the medical failure of funds that occurred as a result of the cancellation of health charges. That's the first thing that happened. Furthermore, we increased the payments for state insurance companies for this year as well as for next year. This increase in payments for state insured persons for next year, together with the increase in employment and more in health insurance, allows us to adopt the third decision on the increase in health salaries made by our government. That is, for the third time, we have been increasing tariff salaries for nurses and doctors in hospitals. The third increase in tariff salaries that we are implementing on 1 January next year - and I want to inform you that the government has already approved the regulation, so this is already the case - will concern the increase in tariff salaries of nurses and doctors in hospitals by 10 percent. It is the highest increase so far that has occurred in the last three years. This year, tariff salaries have increased by 5%, and I hope that this is a clear signal that the government cares that nurses and doctors stay in hospitals. But we also need to focus on the loss that exists here in reality. I am glad that the Minister of Health has started to deal intensively with the Minister of Education Valachová. At this point, we are looking for a way to strengthen the capacity of medical faculties so that we can offer more places to study medical disciplines. Here in Parliament, there are two important standards concerning simplifying the education of doctors and also simplifying the education of nurses, which I consider very important in the long term. The last point I want to make is - we have to make sure that wages are also growing in those organizations, in those hospitals that are stock companies. And here I am glad that the Minister of Health is preparing a memorandum with the Czech and Moravian regions, where the regions set up joint-stock companies that are hospitals, so they would guarantee that they will increase the salaries of nurses and doctors by 10 percent next year in these joint-stock companies. From health insurance, approximately CZK 7 billion should go to salary increases next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u13	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? It's not like that. I'd like to see Mrs Bohdalová's mike, please. Before it comes, allow me to load Mrs Adamová's apology, who apologizes for the negotiations between 14.30 and 18.00 for personal reasons. Now, please, Mrs Bohdalová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u14	Good afternoon, Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues. In July, the government approved increases in the salaries of teachers and other public sector employees during this autumn and since January, as has already been said here in the previous interpelation, health care salaries should also be increased. I am interested in what will be a specific increase in salaries in the given sectors of the state administration. Why do I ask that? Since I was especially a witness in education for years of steady wage increases, but since the education chapter's budget was not increased, it was just a sort of declarative situation. Unfortunately, what is already in the health sector today is that nurses and doctors are running low, so we can already see that this situation threatens us in education, because young teachers who attend teaching faculties start teaching and, at present, when unemployment is very low, they often leave for better earnings in another sphere. I myself was a witness, and I spoke to several colleagues - school directors who could no longer get teachers this year, so as to ensure full school membership. That is why I am interested in the specific increase in salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u15	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u16	Thank you. It is a good thing, honourable Members, that the government has been preserved by an instrument to influence teachers' salaries in regional education. That means primary and secondary schools. Here, in recent years, efforts were made to transfer the money to the so-called budgetary determination of taxes for the regions, but that would mean that the government would lose any economic tool to guarantee that the money would actually go to education. I don't even want to suspect the county of something like this that the money wants to cut. However, at the moment we have a government that, after all, decides on the conditions for determining the quality and scope of education in the Czech Republic, the instrument and the salary. We therefore have the possibility at the moment to influence the level of salaries due to the fact that the national tariff table has been maintained. This means that the government can determine, by regulation, pay movements for individual categories of workers in education. We made a decision that I think is important. As of 1 September this year, salaries have increased and, of course, the government has transferred to the Ministry of Education the corresponding amount of funding to the remaining months of this year. At the same time, money is provided in the draft state budget for next year to make this happen. Of course, it is important now to ensure that the methodology guidelines and standards set by the Ministry of Education are strictly respected by individual regions. The structure of this increase is that, overall, the amount of salaries in education for teaching staff should be increased by 8 per cent. So the wage volume should increase by 8 percent, of which the guaranteed tariff increase should be 6 percent. This means that the tariffs will rise by 6 percent, that is the money that all educational workers are obliged to receive, and then there is the 2% that is used for over-the-counter remuneration. That means there's some sort of room for manoeuvre to reward good teachers, motivate teachers in terms of their executives. This means, in particular, the directors of primary and secondary schools. So that's the question of teaching staff. With regard to those other workers in regional education, there should be an increase of 5 per cent in wages again from 1 September this year, and tariff wages should increase by 4 per cent. As far as teachers are concerned, this is a higher pace than it was in previous years. Again, it is roughly the third increase in the tariff salaries of teachers in the last three years. But in the past, it was 3,5 percent and 3 percent of the tariff salary. Now it's actually a 6% increase in the salary rate. So it's actually a doubling of the wage growth rate compared to this year. I think this is also important for what Mrs Bohdalová mentioned in her interview, and this is a potential lack of qualified teachers in regional education. We need to increase motivation for graduates of teaching faculties, which are not few. But we need to increase the motivation for them to really go to education. And when they're really going to school, they're going to stay there. Especially in order to survive there, even in a situation where they may start a family and, of course, the demands on income will increase significantly there. I would therefore very much like us to continue this pace of raising salaries in education in the following period. It is also about ensuring sufficient funding for regional education reform. That's the last thing I want to mention. It is not only about securing money for wage increases, but we also need to change the system of financing regional education. And I am very pleased that the Ministry of Education has prepared a proposal for this reform and that we will get from funding to financing per hour. That means we're going to fund teaching. We will not finance schools strictly according to the number of pupils. Because, of course, in the past, schools, especially secondary schools, have tried to keep students literally at all costs just to avoid losing this funding, which was largely based on the number of pupils. So if we do this reform of regional education funding and increase the salaries of teachers even further, I think we could get into a situation of significantly better conditions for improving quality in education. And as for the average salary of a teacher in regional education. I think that we should aim - we will not be able to do this in this parliamentary term - but in the next parliamentary term, we should aim to make the average salary of a teacher in regional education exceed CZK 40,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u17	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? [[I don't want to.]] He doesn't want to ask a follow-up question. Mr Petr Gazdík, Mr Karel Rais, will be prepared. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u18	Madam President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear Prime Minister. Without transparent tender, the government extended the contract with Kapsch to collect tolls in the Czech Republic. I repeat that local and regional authorities are sometimes held accountable only for formal misconduct. They are being prosecuted by the police and the prosecutor, they are being fined in European funds. This is a contract of billions of crowns. The discount that Kapsch has offered will not stand during the open tender. It could have been much higher in our opinion. The case at our initiative began to save anti-monopoly office and it is very likely that the agreement with Kapsch is not in accordance with the law, it can be abolished. I therefore ask you, as Prime Minister, what will be the Government's procedure if the Office for Competition notes that there has been a mistake and the contract should not have been concluded. Did you request an explanation from the Minister of Transport why the Ministry under his leadership and under the leadership of his predecessor from the same side did not perform for years and was not able to prepare proper competition? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u19	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u20	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Vice-President, this is perhaps one of the most serious problems our government has to deal with. Because we have dealt repeatedly since we joined the government to monitor, as a government, the timetable for preparing for the situation when the current tolling agreement will end. The existing contract was awarded before 2006 and was concluded for 10 years in 2006. Those ten years will expire at the end of this year and the government's aim was to ensure that the toll system operates even after 1 January next year, so as not to lose revenue for the state budget. That was, say, the main target the government had. All the time as a government, we insisted that there be a technically neutral tender for the operator of the new system. Over time, the government was informed gradually by both transport ministers, but in particular by the Minister of Transport Ťok that, due to the lack of contractual documents and the lack of a contract between the State and the current toll system operator, the Ministry of Transport was unable to secure an open technologically neutral selection procedure without providing synergies from the current system operator. That was the main reason why the open tender did not take place, as the Government of the Ministry of Transport was informed. The Minister of Transport also informed us that the Ministry of Transport has repeatedly obtained several expert opinions on the basis of which it specified its procedure in this case. At the same time, the government is preparing an open tender, technologically neutral, which we would still like to declare within this parliamentary term. The aim of the steps currently being taken by the Ministry of Transport is to ensure the operation of the toll system within the next three years so that a new supplier or operator of the toll system can be selected in an open tender procedure, which will be technologically neutral and at the same time the operation of the system could be effectively passed on to the new operator. It is also based on the contractual documentation which was concluded this year on the basis of a negotiated procedure without publication by the Ministry of Transport. No doubt, like any decision concerning competition law in our country, this matter is subject to a possible review by the Office for the Protection of Competition. This matter is, of course, subject to a possible judicial review and there is no choice but to rely on the Ministry of Transport, with its arguments prepared and informed by the Government, to be able to defend its position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u21	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u22	I just have an additional question that I have asked before, and I will ask the Prime Minister for a clear answer. Prime Minister, is the government currently preparing for this eventuality, that the tender, which was not really, and the way the government has chosen in the agreement with Kapsch, can the Autonomous Office be dropped or attacked? Because from where I'm standing, it's an illegal way. What will the government do then? Is the Ministry of Transport preparing for such an event and preparing steps to further select the myth despite the fact that the contract concluded with Kapsch by the Department of Transport can be cancelled by the Autonomous Office? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u23	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u24	Thank you. Of course, I really don't want to go into speculation right now because it's too serious. That means I don't want to evaluate the competition authority's procedure now. However, I can confirm that, as the Government was informed by the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Transport had the relevant opinions and had the relevant arguments to justify his progress in this matter. The government was therefore informed of this procedure. The Government has insisted all along and insists that an open technologically neutral tender be prepared, which would still be launched according to the agreed timetable in the Government's term of office, with a maximum period of three years, as indicated by those decisions made by the Ministry of Transport, being used to ensure that this open competition takes place while obtaining the necessary synergies of the existing toll system operator. So I can only assume that the Minister of Transport has justified this process to the government and therefore based on the opinions of the expert opinions available to him on this matter. The government will proceed in any situation so as to ensure the operation of the toll system and the collection of the funds involved here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now ask Mr Karel Rais to give his interpellation to the microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u26	Good afternoon. Prime Minister, Madam President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, the day before yesterday I was ready to speak in the context of a proper debate on the point of migration with my contribution. Unfortunately, by preferring Members with priority rights, there was a situation where members of the ANO movement who, in connection with migration and its possible consequences, established in our Parliament a platform of legislators to defend European culture and its values, and practically triggered this extraordinary point of the meeting, did not have the opportunity to speak. I would have a number of questions which I would like to know, of course, the President's reply, but I am limited in my timeline, so I will only ask about the situation - the relationship between the European Union and the so-called democratic leadership of Turkey. This is about compliance with contracts which were adopted in March of this year on visa-free travel. Most of us do not know whether Turkey fulfils or does not fulfil 72 conditions conditional upon the visa-free movement of Turkish citizens in the European Union. What is the interest of EU leadership, especially Mrs Merkelová, in this Treaty? From my point of view, the answer is clear. After the election loss, Mrs Merkelová cannot do anything but promote it. Mrs Merkelová has lost elections in her domestic constituency and must have an interest in calming down her own voters, and she will therefore want to avoid the supply of other migrants to the individual states of Germany at any cost, even though she said we could do it last year, and now calls for the assistance of the entire European Union. It is also clear that similarly German and French politicians from today's ruling parties will also support the approval of the EU-Turkey Treaty. We will be told that all conditions of Turkey have been fulfilled. Therefore, I have two following questions and thank you in advance for the answer. One. Is there a Czech official version of the text of the entire agreement and, in particular, the 72 conditions under which visa-free travel of citizens of Turkey and states is conditional? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Two. How do you control the fulfilment of content and, in particular, the quality control of individual conditions for visa-free travel between the EU and Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u27	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. I ask all Members to keep an eye on the time limit and not exceed it because they are taking away their colleagues' time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u28	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, we, as members of the Government, have requested the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, so that the Office of the Government is also making the Czech version of this agreement available to the members of the Government at this time. I think there will be no problem that this agreement should also be passed on to Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so that you can have it at your disposal. It was actually an agreement between the European Union, which means the institutions of the European Union, and Turkey as such. The aim of this agreement, which I consider important to recall, was to ensure that illegal refugees were returned from Greece to Turkey. I must say that if a standard readmise between Greece and Turkey worked, there would actually be no such agreement needed. So we have a problem here that, in fact, before the agreement was concluded, the standard return of illegal refugees from Greece to Turkey did not work simply because Turkish officials did not take them over. Greece has not been able to ensure the detachment of these people and they have actually continued freely towards Europe with the consequences that we saw last year. The aim of the negotiations with the Turek was to set up a process where illegal refugees who do not receive asylum in Greece will be returned to Turkey, as well as to reduce the motivation of those people even trying to get to Greece from Turkey. This mechanism, although the people of Greece have not been officially returned to Turkey yet, has worked. This means that it has precautionaryly sent out a signal that it is not worth paying people's smugglers for transporting you to Greece, simply because in Greece you will not only get further because of Greece's measures, but also because of measures at the borders of other countries such as Macedonia or Bulgaria, and it is highly likely that they will return you to Turkey, especially if you are refugees who do not come from Syria or from countries where they would be directly threatened by life. That's the situation that's being set up right now. In addition, some other things were agreed. A contribution was agreed for Turkey to finance refugee residence in Turkey. Turkey is hosting about 2 million refugees from Syria at the moment, which is a large number and, of course, the costs of integrating these people are not small at all. Second, which was agreed on the basis of Turkey's request that the issue of visa liberalisation be prepared. Turkey initially declared that it was able to meet the conditions for the introduction of visa liberalisation by the middle of this year. That didn't happen. Consequently, the deadline has been extended until October of this year, but I believe that Turkey will not meet those conditions either, because the developments in Turkey following the failed military coup are rather delayed in terms of meeting the conditions that would be associated with visa liberalisation. At the same time, the Czech Republic supported the initiative of some other Member States of the European Union to provide a rescue brake in any agreement that Europe will conclude in the future with regard to visa liberalisation. This means that we have already negotiated in advance that if visa liberalisation, for example, would lead to a significant increase in the number of people arriving in Europe as a result of visa liberalisation, they would be seeking asylum here, or if there was a threat to public policy or security, the visa liberalisation regime could be suspended by the European Union. So we want this insurance to be in all the agreements that will be concluded between the European Union and any other country with regard to visa liberalisation. It is therefore a three-month visa, but we insist that the conditions be met. How is it possible to control it? This is a topic that is repeatedly dealt with by the Interior Ministers at their councils, that is, they are getting information about how the process is going, and of course the Czech Republic, in case we have any doubts that it is actually being implemented, so we have the opportunity to request the necessary information and we have the opportunity to express our disagreement. In any case, in the finals, like the other countries of the European Union, we will comment on whether or not we have the conditions met. And that attitude will be strict. That means, we approach this matter strictly, we insist on meeting these conditions consistently. We don't want any benevolence here, we don't want to underestimate anything. And I think that nothing else can be done because Turkey is indeed a difficult country at the moment, and we must proceed very carefully on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u30	I apologize for exceeding the time. I really had a longer contribution prepared. I have two things. I am glad to hear that the government will express itself in order to meet those 72 conditions, or that we will probably also be able, through Parliament, to know the government's opinion, eventually to get to those conditions. And the other thing surprises me a little bit. 18. 3. I feel that the contract has been approved or passed by Brussels. And today's the 15th. 9. So only after six months is the translation coming up. This seems to me quite a long time and I would recommend to the President if it could be more or less publicly available to the entire company on the website, and therefore public control is also ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u31	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u32	Thank you. I suppose nothing, honourable Members, should prevent this treaty from being published. So if there are no obstacles, I suppose not, then perhaps the easiest way is for us to publish this contract as the Office of the Government on the Government Office's website and be available to everyone here. I'll find out the technical details. And if it's even a little bit possible here, we'll make it happen. I must say that the key to concluding this agreement was to find some way to cooperate with Turkey so that we could stop the illegal migration that was going from Turkey to Europe. And I think that Turkey must also be interested in making this agreement work, because Turkey is not interested in more and more refugees constantly coming to it, who will try to get to Europe through Turkey, because an increasing number of refugees from different countries are aggravating the security situation in Turkey. She is already so complex thanks to the Kurdish problem, because at the borders of Turkey there is a war, that there is a problem of refugees from Afghanistan, who are also trying to get through Iraq and Turkey to Europe. So it's not an easy situation at all. And I assume that Turkey should also be interested in cooperating with Europe in the regulation of illegal migration in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u33	Thank you. Now, to Mr Valenta's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Mrs Lorencová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u34	Dear Prime Minister, I think we agree that various pearls can be listened to in the media. But what he released on the air yesterday through public television on the 2016 ČT 24 program, specifically in 21.08 the host Jakub Železný, was really worth it. I quote: "KSČM - this is a party that still has socialism in its programme, something that is not entirely in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic." Prime Minister, what do you think of such uninformed, perhaps socially dangerous claims from the public service media platform? You don't think it's any wonder that the low information quality of some publicist and news programs continues to criticize a large part of our public, and rightly so? Assuming that the Communist Party is being pre-selected now, I would partially ignore it. We've gotten a little used to it. My point is that television anti-communism, even on public media screens, is starting to replace even with opposition against all leftist, specifically now Mr. ŽeleznýŽelezný explicit opposition to socialism. It must be clear to every average educated person that socialism is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, and any questioning of this fact is a goddamn and often deliberately discharged lie. What about these timid attempts to de-honest the socialism itself, a pan-Europeanly acceptable mental framework, the media of our service as a representative of a party that constantly frequents socialism in its political activities and is also a member of the Socialist Internationale, do you say? You don't mind? I mean, it's about you now, too. Thank you for your answer and your personal opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u35	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u36	Thank you. honourable Members, I would like to say first of all that public television is not a state television, which means that public media have a special status in our country, are independent of the government and actually the public is controlling through the Chamber of Deputies, which elects the appropriate advice, in this case Czech television. This means that the government does not have any supervisory competence towards Czech Television. These are my Chamber of Deputies. I think that Czech Television, Czech Radio should naturally respect the democratic principles of the rule of law and, of course, the principles of free competition between political parties in our country and should not interfere in this competition in any manipulative way. I must say that we must also build on constitutionality, where it is clear what political parties and movements can operate here, and the law that defines association in political parties and in political movements clearly states what movements can and cannot legally operate here. In these interventions, I do not want to engage in a debate about the interpretation of the word socialism, because it is a concept that evolved a lot during the 19th and 20th centuries. Socialists were called different regimes, different political parties. I'm sure none of us would want anything to do with some of them. We have also experienced a regime here called Socialist, which was not democratic. I don't think this is the topic we should be dealing with here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's more like a professional seminar. But I believe that public media as independent institutions should respect the competition of political parties, provide objective information and avoid any attempt to intervene in political competition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u37	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I did not ask you to interfere in this competition or in the structure and programme compositions of Czech Television in any way. Not at all. I just wanted to draw your attention to a dangerous trend, which, through subjugation of the Czech public's untruths and half-truths, can also mean fatal consequences for the competition of political parties, and also for democracy. Take, for example, the 2015 Czech Television Activity Report, which was approved today in the House. Only 67 Members have spoken in favour. So even the trend in the Chamber of Deputies is clear about the fact that dissatisfaction with the public media is really here and something needs to be done about it. I didn't ask, I repeat, I didn't want you to interfere. I was only interested in your personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u39	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? No. It's not like that. I'd like to see Mrs. Lorencová's mike, please. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u40	Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on privatization of OKD. I know, it's an old thing, 25 years since then. After 25 years, we find that all the time we're actually just picking up more and more things, other and more steps that no one's doing anything with, like we're required to think of as a coin, that that's what it was supposed to be like? I am limited in time and I am very sorry, but let me briefly remind you that OKD was privatized - one shaft stopped at the bank and the whole OKD was privatized at the price of the shaft. And not just that! The apartments were inserted into the privatized property. Thousands of hectares of land have been inserted into the privatized property for free and without registration and there are thousands of non-residential premises. I say again completely aware of what I'm saying: no record, no appreciation! [[15.20 hours]] Prime Minister, what have you done over the last 25 years, or during the last eight years, when in my opinion, was there certainly something you did to prevent people from feeling frustrated, insidious, helpless, and utterly hopeless? Some tangible result of your party's activities and you're allowed to call Bakal a crook. And that's it! See ya. [[Attention on time.]] I would also like to add that the European Commission is discussing illegal aid -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u41	Madam, I am so sorry, but your two minutes have passed. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, by coincidence in the previous interpelations that I had here in the Chamber of Deputies last week, the question of other flats in another company was intersected here, which is basically current today, because it is a question of selling flats in Prague, which is realized by ČEZ, which is owned by the State of 70 percent, and, to be honest, this is a matter which is very complex especially in a situation where the company and its management, the authorities of the company, albeit owned by the State, must naturally proceed with the care of a proper economy. But it turns out that the apartments were not only inserted into OKD at the time of privatization of OKD, but the apartments were unfortunately inserted into other companies before these companies were privatized, and then of course it is very complicated how the apartments were subsequently loaded. I consider it the biggest problem that, at the time of the establishment of the OKD joint-stock company, which was actually 25 years ago, as the Member said, not only the production parts of the company were inserted into the OKD, but also the non-production parts of the company were inserted there. Including a large part of the housing fund. When I was checking, and of course I was going through these things historically, I was trying to figure out why the whole OKD housing fund, which is large, was not needed to be transferred to cities and municipalities and remained part of the business. At that time, the employees of the OKD themselves, representatives of the trade unions, were more convinced that the flats would be part of the OKD. They felt that they would have a greater impact on how rent would be set in the apartments or how the apartments would be treated. So, in fact, in 1990, the then government put the apartments into OKD, which, in my view, created a big problem. The second part of the problem was created when OKD was wildly privatized and the state lost the majority. I've already talked about this when we were discussing a point that involved privatization. koneckonců all, it is discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. This was the summer of 1996, 1997, 1998 when the state actually lost the majority in OKD and the special decisions of the National Property Fund. But also by the fact that municipalities and cities that had OKD shares just sold them. That means the state lost the majority in OKD. And then the state was selling the minority on the basis of an opinion at its disposal, and at a price higher than the opinion at its disposal. But the state no longer sold flats, the state sold shares, a minority stake in a stock company. Unfortunately, the apartments were inserted in 1990, and I think that was the biggest mistake that happened. They were to be transferred to municipalities and cities at that time, or they were to be transferred to some residual state enterprise, could have been dealt with. What happened or what happened? Of course, over the past few years, the Ministry of Finance, and even though we were in opposition, so we put pressure on it, the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly examined the privatisation agreement. It sought to apply sanctions against the acquirers in terms of the management of the housing fund and in terms of the performance of this contract. In some disputes MF succeeded, in other disputes MF failed in dealing with this. And to be honest, our government is particularly confronted at the moment with the fact that OKD has become in a difficult economic situation as a result of its success in recent years as a result of the decline in coal prices. At this point, we are trying to maintain employment in OKD and spread the decline in OKD mining within several years in order to avoid serious social problems in the Moravian-Silesian region. So this is what the government is very intensive about. I have seen the motion for a resolution, one of the possible motions for a resolution for the Chamber of Deputies. I think that we are certainly prepared as a government to map everything that was going on around privatization of OKD, but the problem is that many of these processes took place years ago. However, it is already clear that the introduction of flats into OKD and wild privatization of OKD at the end of the 1990s actually made it impossible for the state to deal with these flats further. The State has only put conditions in the privatisation agreement in 2004 to limit the use of the apartments and now there is a dispute as to whether or not the new owners have complied with the conditions. I believe that they did not comply with them, but in the light of the decision of the court in that case, it was not exactly considered that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u43	Thank you. Madame, you have one minute to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u44	My supplementary question is this: Prime Minister, I thought you knew that this was actually a fraud from the start. The apartments were not simply inserted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. I'm sure you know that, then. They were called service apartments. And that's why they were put into that privatized property, even if it was completely contrary to the laws in force, with the laws in force! So why any other government, even yours, why didn't you do something to make this right? Because we're dragging the burden of the tunnels, the scoundrelry that's been going on here, obviously! And if something really doesn't work out, we're gonna drag her on. But I'll take one more comment. [[Attention on time.]] The European Commission deals with what has happened -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u45	Madam, I am so sorry, but the minute is gone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u46	I'm sorry, too, so I'm gonna be coming back with this interppelation all over again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u47	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u48	Thank you. Just two more notes. Therefore, if it is suspected that the decision taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in 1990 at the end of 1990, when the state enterprise was abolished, a public limited liability company was set up and it was decided on what assets were to be placed there, it was done on the basis of some false facts, then, of course, this matter can be examined. Anyway, it's been 25 years. It's 25 years ago when this thing happened. However, I would ask the Member, if she has any particular suggestions about this, of course, we can have this matter examined and I assume that the competent authorities that have archivals might be able to examine the matter. That's the first point. Second point on the issue of public aid. Unfortunately, public support was not a member of the European Union at the time of the wild privatisation, when the owners got to OKD without paying a single crown, so we could not examine whether public support was granted, simply because an inappropriate form of privatisation - coupons - was chosen. I don't think it's a good idea to privatize mine coupons. The European Commission only assessed whether the sale of the minority share of the share was in line with European law or not. And the European Commission said that it did, that it was in accordance with European law. But she could not examine what had happened before accession to the European Union, as well as the fact that flats had been inserted there, and in connection with the fact that there was a wild privatisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u49	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Karamazov's microphone. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u50	Dear Prime Minister, the citizens of Great Britain, albeit relatively close majority, have expressed themselves in favour of leaving the European Union. At this point, the views of many Eurohujers have surfaced demanding that the European Union be uncompromising towards the UK when negotiating the conditions of departure. I believe that we cannot be indifferent to this situation with regard to trade relations. After all, Great Britain is our third most important export market in Germany and Slovakia. And even in the case of imports, our relations are certainly not negligible. The recent statistics of the Ministry of Industry and Trade place Great Britain in sixth place among our largest import markets. It is therefore vitally in the interests of the Czech Republic that trade relations with Great Britain continue to be at a very high level. [[15.30 hours]] I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, whether the Czech Republic will become one of the countries which will try to complicate the UK's departure from the European Union, or whether we will, on the contrary, be those who will strive for the closest possible trade cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u51	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u52	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I am among those who are not at all pleased with the outcome of the vote. I think Brexit is a big mistake that it will be a mistake for Britain in the future, but that it is, above all, a major weakening of Europe not only from an economic but also from a security point of view. So I'm not happy about brexit, but we have to take it as reality. We have to deal with this. Two. I certainly will not belong, and the Czech government will not be one of those governments that would take the position - so let the Brit eat it now. I don't think that's the approach we should be applying. We must approach this with a cool head, think about the future. And my opinion is that we should maintain as close relations as possible between Europe and Great Britain. The Member has already mentioned this in his interpellation. Of course, we have business interests there. Britain is one of the export markets of the Czech Republic. But the Brit also invested here, but our people also work in the UK, i.e. It must be our concern to keep those relationships close. I'm in favour of keeping them close, even from a security point of view. Britain is part of the North Atlantic Alliance, so are we. That means we should consider some close cooperation here, too. Finally, there may be a number of things where, even after brexit, we can agree with the Brit as the European Union on some joint action towards third partners. We have prepared a working group that has already started to deal with issues at government level that will be linked to the UK's speech. We have quite a time to prepare ourselves well for the meeting, because Britain has not yet announced that it is leaving the European Union. We expect him to do this at the turn of this year and next year, and then the minimum period of two years will actually run, unless it is extended, to negotiate specific conditions for the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union. What do we want in these negotiations as Čech? We focus primarily on maintaining equal conditions on the British labour market for Czech citizens, i.e. such conditions used by the Brit here in the Czech Republic. Now it is important what the proposal will come up with, because one of the reasons for Brexit, which has been introduced very often on the British side, was the attempt to regulate the influx of foreign workers, i.e. the Čech, to the British market from other countries of the European Union. So we are waiting to see what proposal the United Kingdom will come up with in this regard. However, we will act within the Czech national interest to ensure the best equal conditions for the Čech working in Britain. The second thing that is of course important to us is, of course, the greatest possible application of four freedoms in relation to the UK as far as the European Union is concerned. Well, we'll insist on reciprocity. If we give the Brit an advantage in relations with the European Union, we will want the European Union to again be given some advantage or preference. So we need it to be a balanced relationship. The negotiations will certainly not be easy, especially since those who promised Brexit in the UK have portrayed the future outside the European Union very idyllically in pink colors, and I think that reality will be more complex, especially when it comes to the debate on the British labour market. Likewise, I think it would be good for us to maintain within Europe some of the programmes that will be financed by the UK, but this will, of course, be linked to the conditions for relations between Britain and the European Union to be set. I was also looking for a way to involve our country in some coordination at European level. But I must say that, at European level, the position is strictly maintained that, until Britain formally announces to the other members of the European Union that it is leaving the European Union, we are not holding any negotiations within the framework of a 27-year-old, where we are preparing to perform the Great Britain. We just have to wait for Britain to formally announce it. It's her business. We can't even solve this for the Brit, nor can we force them to speed things up. They themselves must formally announce this matter. Then I assume that there will also be some coordination between the 27 countries of the European Union and that, of course, we will proceed together. We will use the European Commission's service, but the basic constraints for negotiating with Great Britain cannot be given by the European Commission, but we insist that it be the European Council that approves the negotiations with Great Britain and will control the process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u53	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u54	Prime Minister, thank you for your clear answer and for your subsequent explanation. I'm glad we agree that we should maintain the best relationship with Great Britain. About who's making mistakes, if brexit was a mistake, we could probably argue about that. I think that mistakes, and fatal, are made by the European Union, but that is for a different discussion. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u55	Thank you. The Prime Minister wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u56	Thank you. honourable Members, I agree that we can argue about who is making a bigger mistake, whether Britain or Europe. We can talk about whether there's any fault, if there's any way to talk about whose side it's guilty. But then it's important to see what the outcome is. And it doesn't matter if there was more guilt on the Brit side or Europe's side. The sum is that Europe will be weaker and the United Kingdom will be weaker globally. Britain's influence will simply be smaller, but at the same time it will also be less Europe's influence without Great Britain. In Britain, we lose a partner who cared about transatlantic ties, not only security but also business, so that's definitely a problem. We are losing a partner who was not a member of the euro area, i.e. it is once again a problem within the European Union as such for countries that do not yet pay the euro. So there's a lot of negatives. And I think that the strategic weakening of Europe itself is, in my opinion, too high a price that has been paid for David Cameron's ability to calm conditions in the Conservative Party before the British elections by promising a referendum. At the time, it may have seemed like an intelligent solution, a clever solution. David Cameron was lucky in one - Scotland. The Scots decided to stay in Britain. And for the second time, I think that it has left not only David Cameron but also the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u57	Thank you. And now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Kovářová, to present her interpellation to the Prime Minister. Mr Rykala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u58	Mr President, the problem that has been said a lot lately is an increase in the fees that the Protective Union has set up since next year. This has blown the breath of a number of people, including representatives of municipalities and various associations, which are opposed to an increase that is simply jumping - what else is an increase in some cases by up to 50 percent? - they're defending. And I would like to support their protest. At the same time, I believe that the protest of several hundred communities that have expressed themselves in this matter certainly deserves the attention of the government, and that is why I am now directing my intervention not only to the Minister of Culture but also to you. I want to stress that I understand an increase that would reflect e.g. the development of the price level, which is clearly not a 50 per cent increase. I guess we agree on that, don't we? The question is, what can we do about it? The increase is likely to have support in the existing wording of the Act. It's a bad law, then. Even the wrong law must be followed, but we should try to change it. Better said, we have to. And that's where my question goes. How should the copyright law change to avoid such excesses as we are witnessing? What is the idea of this government? What and when will it be presented to the Chamber of Deputies in order to avoid the dramatic and difficult to justify the increase in copyright fees that the organizers of all kinds of social and cultural events in municipalities and cities throw down their heels? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u59	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u60	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, first of all I want to say that I understand that there has been a real misunderstanding, a protest, a disagreement with what the OSA has done, because there has been the fact that the rates of charges for the use of reproduced music should be increased by 50 per cent for 2017, which is indeed a huge increase. So I have to say that I have an understanding of the opposition that they have expressed on this, for example. representatives of cities and municipalities. [[15.40 hours]] I've asked for an opinion from the Ministry of Culture here on this matter. The Ministry of Culture examined the complaint submitted by the Ministry of Culture as well as the Office for the Protection of Competition, the complaint was lodged by the Association of Local Authorities. As regards the assessment of the complaint at the level of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture unfortunately had to state that the association which complained, the Association of Local Authorities, did not fully exploit all the possibilities it had in terms of the existing copyright law. The association could apply to the collective administrator. The collective administrator would then be obliged to request his opinion on the proposed tariffs and could therefore comment. The Ministry of Culture cannot enter into these private relations by regulating the agreed rates, i.e. The Ministry of Culture is not authorized and neither is the government authorized to regulate these rates. At this point, the UOHS is now analyzing this problem. According to my information received from the UOHS, there were over 150 incentives, i.e. The UOHS will only decide this matter and also want to analyse the situation in this context abroad. So this matter is judged by the Office for the Protection of Competition. The Ministry of Culture points out that it is necessary to apply to the collective administrator in order to be able to subsequently comment on the tariffs. At the same time, I want to point out another important thing. In the Chamber of Deputies, an amendment to the copyright law is being discussed. The amendment, which has so far been submitted by the Government, should ensure transparency in the creation of tariff rates, the need for adequate justification for any change and the wider possibility for users to comment on these tariffs and should also include the effective enforcement of the fulfilment of all the associated obligations of collective administrators. So here I would like to point out that at this point, it is possible to deal with current legislation on the basis of an amendment to the copyright law submitted by the government. I think the Ministry of Culture, as it has informed me, is prepared to work with Members to approve an adjustment that will be better than today's, i.e. it will indeed allow greater transparency in this whole process, which is related to the obligations and rights of collective administrators in this matter. Otherwise, the situation is not simple and much better even in other countries of the European Union, and there are countries of the European Union where the rates are significantly higher than they are currently being selected in the Czech Republic, and unfortunately, this is often referred to in the argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u61	Thank you. Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u62	Dear Prime Minister, I am pleased that you have an understanding of the opposition of municipalities and cities to the question of jumping increase of copyright fees. Therefore, I would like to invite you to a seminar that will take place on Thursday, September 22, where the representatives of the organisations you have spoken about will be, and I would like you to express your understanding there. So I'd take the liberty of handing over the invitation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u63	Thank you. The Prime Minister will no longer respond, so please to Mr Rykala's microphone, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, let me first mention that I will also interpel the Minister of the Environment on this issue today, if the time comes, and I would like to ask you to pay your attention to this issue. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our Czech market currently offers low-quality foreign boilers, which unfortunately can lead to a deterioration of air quality. These boilers, which are very much offered in the Moravian-Silesian Region, i.e. in my region from which I come, are listed in the list of boilers recommended for boiler subsidies. I would like to point this out for the reason that these are many boilers that are on this list. The point is that people normally buy these boilers without even knowing that there may be a problem, and they receive subsidies from the European Union and contributions from cities and municipalities. Doubtful boilers are included in the list of products and technologies recommended by the State Environmental Fund. The state therefore recommends them to people and also grants them subsidies under the programme. Boiler subsidies. Repeated attempts to draw the attention of the competent authorities to the problem of these products, for which they have demonstrated the formal necessary documents but are inappropriate, have been supported by the competent authorities. Even the State Environmental Fund had these boilers checked at the Engineering Testing Institute in Brno. Yet they are still being offered. And I would ask you to check it out, or to tell us, Prime Minister, how the government will protect the environment and protect consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u65	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u66	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I, on the basis of Mr Rykala's interpellation, have requested the documents from the Ministry of the Environment on this matter, and I can tell you that this is a really interesting issue, because there is a real problem. Just very briefly. Boiler subsidies shall be provided on the basis of the relevant documents. I think that this is a very good programme that is very successful, and I think that it has a very good reputation among citizens in the Czech Republic as well. And I would love it if we could continue it over the years to come, because I think that in terms of improving air quality and domestic heating, this may be the best thing that has been done in recent years. The subsidies are granted for installations listed in the list of eligible products and technologies. The list is kept by the State Environmental Fund and its purpose is to help applicants for boiler subsidies so that they can focus on the subsidised boiler market. Manufacturers shall provide evidence of compliance certificates from accredited independent services throughout Europe to be included in that list. On the basis of these certificates, they may be included in the list of recommended products supported by boiler subsidies. All products included in that list must meet the same conditions and their inclusion in the list means that producers declare compliance with ecodesign combustion conditions, which is evidenced precisely by certificates from independent accredited services, which are equal in the European Union market. Indeed, following the initiative of the Association of Heating Technology, one specific product was examined on the list of eligible products and technologies. The boiler manufacturer supplied the necessary certificates. The boiler was tested here in the Czech Republic in the independent certified testing room and the result of the examination was to measure different results which did not match the results which were supplied or confirmed by the relevant certificates. An arbitrage was therefore taken. The arbitration report from the independent accredited laboratory in Poland, which was submitted by the boiler manufacturer, fills the required values in the case of the combustion of brown coal and wood pellets. This means that the results of the arbitration assessment are in line with the original assessment delivered by the supplier of the boiler concerned. For the time being, the manufacturer has not delivered a measurement of the third fuel combustion as part of the Polish certificate, i.e. Coal, but by letter addressed to the State Environmental Fund, has promised to provide further certification within a reasonable period, not later than the end of 2016. So there was a situation where, given the different measurements in several different independent testing rooms accredited by national authorities, different values were measured. This is, of course, a matter that is very difficult for the Ministry of the Environment to evaluate it in some way, and it is not his own. So the Ministry of the Environment has turned to the Ministry of Industry, which has this issue in its competence, so that the MIT will take steps to streamline the instruments for regulating the boiler market in the Czech Republic, as well as throughout the European Union. [[15.50 hours]] So I will be interested and will turn to the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek and ask him to address this issue, to provide me with information on the steps the Ministry of Industry and Trade will take in relation to the initiative it has received from the Ministry of Environment. But I believe that the procedure of the Ministry of the Environment is consistent with the situation, and it is clear that the Ministry of the Environment has paid sufficient attention to this matter and has actually tried to respond to what has happened. This means that the examination or examination of the certificate here in the Czech Republic has turned out differently than the original certificates delivered and an arbitration review has been obtained.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u67	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? It's not like that. I therefore ask the next in line, and this is Mr Petr Fiala, to present his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, the government, or the Treasury, has been bragging about various records in recent months. The last thing I heard was that we had a record budget surplus in August. That would, of course, be an excellent report if it weren't for two things. The first is the information that you want to spend the record surplus again, and you are planning a 60-billion-dollar budget deficit next year, which is only 10 billion lower than this year's plan. But the other thing, and I want to ask you this, is government investment, which, compared to the approved budget, is falling over the fact of last year. About 30 billion crowns in the first eight months compared to 2015. I am merely recalling your words from December 2015, when you agreed on the budget, when you said - quote: "The government's aim is to allocate sufficient funds to prepare transport structures so that we can design so that we can buy out the land, and once the buildings are ready, so that the construction can be really started. Thus, investment in transport infrastructure is a key priority in the area of investment." And now I quote from the current report by the Ministry of Finance, which says: "In particular, the drawing of investment funds in state funds, especially in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, is extremely low. " My question, Prime Minister, is whether you are satisfied with how your government invests. Because if I compare it to a 10,5 billion increase in social benefits, it's kind of an imbalance, and it shows priorities. How satisfied you are with the Ministry of Finance's work - after three years in power, it is difficult to justify the past, as you have done so far. And above all, what you do with investment and what you do to make their drawing better. And I'm sure we can agree that investment is important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u69	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u70	Thank you. I think this is a really serious problem. I agree with Mr Fiala that the development of the state budget this year is not satisfactory from this point of view. It's really happening... When we prepared the budget for this year, some CZK 78 billion were planned for capital expenditure. So it was assumed that the capital expenditure would be about 3 billion higher than it was last year. However, in August, the capital expenditures so far have reached only CZK 46 billion and were thus 30 billion lower than in the same period last year. What is, of course, an objective fact to mention in this comparison is that last year, a large proportion of the capital expenditure was made up of funds that we invested from European Union funds, because last year was actually the year of the highest drawdown of European funds, and this has also contributed to the fact that capital expenditure has therefore greatly increased precisely to European funds. So the actual use of investment funds this year may be lower than it was last year. What the government can do and what the government is trying to do. Firstly, we are pushing for an accelerated start in drawing funds from European Union funds, so that this year, because we have prepared a certain advance on funding, so that we can exhaust as much of this advance as possible this year. I am glad that both the operational programme under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already started drawing. Other operational programs have already announced challenges. I think that we have fulfilled all the formal conditions for funding from the European Union's budget to be reimbursed. This means that the first thing we are working intensively on is to speed up the drawing of funds from the European Union. Second thing. I will be interested to know what the current situation looks like from the point of view of financing transport infrastructure, because I believe that if the state did not have enough prepared projects on motorways or railways within the budget of the transport infrastructure fund, we should take advantage of the fact that projects for reconstruction of second and third-class roads are prepared at regional level and that the State could transfer some of the funds there so that the investment money would show up. At the same time, we are rapidly preparing the launch of other large motorway structures. I want to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the government has approved several tender procedures at the last meetings, new tender procedures concerning motorway constructions, whether it is the D11, D35 or D6, which means we are preparing investment projects and opportunities to accelerate the construction of transport infrastructure next year. At the same time, we are trying from the point of view of individual ministries to prepare well for the effective new law on public procurement. This means that we are trying not to slow down our ability to draw on investment funds by applying the new Public Procurement Act. The last thing I want to remind you of, which I think is very important. We continue to monitor the situation from the point of view of drawing up individual operational programmes and the government has already taken the first decision to re-allocate funds from the Operational Programme Transport to the Operational Programme Environment, and we have tried to get the money, the roughly 2 billion that we have moved from the Operational Programme Transport, because we were not sure if the OPD is actually going to drain all these funds, so we moved it to the Operational Programme Environment, so that they will also be used for investment. This means that we are trying to guarantee that the money that has been earmarked for investment will be used for investment, and we will monitor the situation in operational programmes on an ongoing basis, and if the funds are obvious or very likely not to be used up in any of the operational programmes, we want to use all the possibilities to ensure that no funds from European funds fall. And the very last thing I want to say about it. I consider it useful, and we will apply it for the first time next year, that it would be good that, in addition to the approval of the budget and the approval of the state final account, we should always review how the ministries are able to draw allocated funds in the middle of the year. Because here every year there is a repeated budgetary battle about how much money the resort will have, but then it turns out that a number of these ministries are unable to drain these funds effectively. So in the middle of the year, I would like us to make a clear review and eventually move funds between chapters. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u71	Thank you. And the Member wants to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister, for being open to the problem, including admitting that it is a problem. I must, of course, point out that last year's EU funds were significant and that this year will be different, so of course you already knew that budget planning. The numbers in the first eight months are really warning because while last year the draw was about 70 percent, this year it is 55 percent, and that is obviously something that needs to be done, because investment is extremely important. Of course, I am also concerned about the total amount of investment your government is planning. If I take 2015, it was 78 billion, if I take this year, it's 83 billion, and if I compare it to 2013, where it was CZK 105.2 billion, there's already a significant drop. And if the money is still not drawn, of course it can have a serious impact in terms of the future and future prosperity of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u73	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u74	Thank you. We will make a clear overview of how the drawing of investment funds in individual departments took place this year. I think that this should be a public and quite transparent debate that should be carried out, and I think that both in the government and perhaps on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so that it is clear where the State does not have the capacity to draw out the relevant investment programmes. And I think we should have the courage to move the money between chapters and during the financial year. Let me give you two very specific examples. We have investment programs here, where there's a fairly large excess of demand. These programmes concern, for example, the strengthening of the capacity of kindergartens or primary schools in the competence of municipalities, where subsidies are granted by the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Finance. We have an overhang in demand for an investment program implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which concerns, for example, senior homes. There we know that projects are being prepared and there is an overhang in demand over the funds that the respective ministries had budgeted. This means, if it turns out that there is a faster drawdown in these programmes, then I think that we should also move financial resources in their favour during the financial year to ensure a smoother drawing of investment from the state budget. And the other thing. I expect that, given that this year's real challenges have already been announced, which is close to 50 per cent of the total allocation, that is, our ambition is to cover about 50 per cent of the allocation at least this year, so at the moment the calls are evaluated, this means a significant start-up in drawing funds from the EU at the turn of this year and next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u75	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since it's 16.01. We're going to continue to interpel at this point on other members of the government. I will ask Mr Petr Bendl to give his interview to the apologized Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's like talking to a wall. It's just no big deal, 'cause there's hardly any of the ministers here today. I wanted to interpel the Minister on the matter of duty, or the introduced responsibilities of municipalities to provide social housing, so I wanted to know what it would look like in practice. But the secretary isn't here, so I'm gonna keep the interview for next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u77	Thank you. So please take the next step and this is Mr Zdeněk Soukup, Mrs Nina Nováková will be prepared. Mr Soukup will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tempted to do something similar as my colleague Bendl, but he would say against the rules of the game I could answer these questions to Minister Pelikán if he would be willing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u79	Which you can't because you're intersecting the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u80	So I don't want to talk to empty chairs and empty walls either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u81	Yes, thank you. I'll ask Mrs Nina Nováková to give her interview to also the apologized Minister Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u82	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also turn to the absent secretary, but after all, I decided to say it. Dear Minister, there is no ministry for family or other ministry in our country that views the family as a positive and untouchable component of society. I am therefore concerned that the view of the family as a social problem is getting stronger, and the methods applied by your ministry also correspond to this view. Ignore each family, i.e. the father, mother and children, is unrepeatable in subtle shades of mutual relations, and the approach that tore apart the family and isolatedly deals with the child's frequent use of the word interest, while not helping parents to cope with crises or breakups, the approach that strengthens the antipathy created between former loving partners or husbands, cannot claim to help children. We have good examples abroad, such as in Germany or Austria. In Germany, for example, the cochemský Programme. One, Madam Secretary, is not born with the competence to be a good husband or partner, and it is not even born, apart from a biological option, with the ability to be a good parent. I ask you, Madam Secretary, if, in addition to placing children in an institution, you also implement programs and support programs that provide comprehensive psychological, mediation, educational support for families. That would really be something that wouldn't be expensive and it would be an investment that would pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u83	Thank you and please next in line, and this is Mrs Kovářová, to present an interview to the present Minister Šlechtová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u84	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in Central Bohemia, but also in Prague, the draft decree on the establishment of the list of agglomerations for the purposes of evaluation and noise reduction has been discussed for the last few days. This decree is issued for the implementation of the provisions of § 81a of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection. The reason she attracted so much attention is because the area is dramatically shrinking by this decree defined. For the purpose of assessing and reducing noise, only the areas of the inner Prague, the peripheral part of Prague and the adjacent part of the Central Bohemia Region, with which the current decree was intended, are to be deleted from the noise mapping. Of course, concerns arise not only on the part of the towns concerned, but also on the part of Central Bohemia and cities which do not understand this reversal. And even though I have read the draft decree, even I do not find the fundamental transformation of the regulation proposed by MMR to be too clear, virtually. from the point of view of the authorities concerned and their residents, without any more detailed justification, acceptable. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you to explain this significant conceptual change of legislation, preferably an explanation of semi-pathic, ideally along with an explanation of why the citizens of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region should not be afraid of this change. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u85	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u86	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to explain this in half. So the MMR sent out an interdepartmental commentary procedure, which was 30. 8., so I am also glad that colleagues of the mayors and representatives notice what we are sending, which I am only pleased with, the decree that should replace the existing decree No. 561/2006 Coll., on the establishment of a list of agglomerations for the purpose of evaluation and reduction of noise. As the honourable Member rightly said, this decree is an implementing law on Law No No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health, in the Gesture of a Resort other than the Ministry of Regional Development. Section 81a empowers the Ministry of Regional Development to issue this decree, into which the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment and management of noise in the outdoor environment was also transposed. It follows from the above that the decree is drawn up purely on the basis of that authorisation in the Health Protection Act. Reasons and goals. First. First of all, it's an implementing decree for the law. This law, its amendment, has been approved by this Chamber of Deputies, and in any case, this decree deals with the fact that the census took place in 2011 and must be updated. The agglomerations in the past were defined from the perspective of regionalist, i.e. especially in terms of commuting for work or amenities, and this has also changed. So that's one of the other reasons I'm going to mention here. This present draft decree defines the agglomeration as a compactly built territory which must be protected from noise. This is in line with the Public Health Act, which considers the agglomeration to be an urbanized urban area in which more than 100,000 people live. And now I hope that I partly - with a smile I say half-pathically - responded to the question of the Member why. The Public Health Act provides that the agglomeration is an urbanised urban area in which more than 100,000 people live, and this must also be adapted to our decree and the implementing decree for this law. [[16.10 hours]] The decree also responds to the 2011 census data and takes into account the European Parliament and Council Regulation No 1315 of 11 December 2013 on European Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. The aim is to establish a list of agglomerations in the range of urbanised urban buildings, which meets the criteria of the law, for which the Ministry of Health subsequently processes so-called strategic noise maps and the competent regional authorities subsequently develop so-called action plans for them. So she's a really big hierarchy from the Ministry of Health, our decree, then the county, then the community. The concept, which did not take into account the definition of agglomeration as an urban area with more than 100,000 permanent residents, was used to obstruct, for example, the management of the TEN-T network, which means the main currents, which means the key intentions of transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic. Now allow me a bit of a statement through the Vice-President on criticism of this decree, which I have also observed in the media, and I am pleased because at least it is being written about. Against this proposal, too, in this pre-election circuit period, many misleading, false information has emerged. For example, the new concept of agglomerations, as provided for in the draft decree, does not in any way reduce the conditions for protection of the population against noise. The process of authorising transport constructions is always very complex and the decree is only one partial regulation. We could also read that the decree deals with construction engineering. It doesn't. This decree does not address any way of construction engineering, i.e. whether it will lead the roads through the territory of the tunnel, which I have also read is that this decree solves - it does not solve - for the constructions in question and, in particular, it does not lead to a reduction of anti-noise measures. I also consider it important for this place to be heard from my mouth that the state will in no way resign from protecting the population from the negative effects of noise. On the contrary, it is also our priority, especially the Ministry of Regional Development, in the field of construction law. Strategic noise mapping will continue to take place in defined agglomerations as well as so far in areas that pass through major roads such as motorways or first-class roads, main railway lines and in the vicinity of major airports. So now on the issue of non-noise mapping in Prague and Central Bohemia. [[Your time, Madam Secretary.]] Some cadastral territories of Prague are newly released from the defined agglomerations. It's been discussed with them, and it's all in custody of the Public Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u87	Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for explaining, at least it wasn't very half-pathic for me. It's obvious that this issue is complicated, and I don't think it has anything to do with the election competition that's currently going on. I understand that the construction of motorways and health protection are just both important things. I would like very much given the nervousness between the municipalities, such as Jesenice, Dolní Břežany, Pražan and Říčany, and many others, whether it would be possible, and I would like to ask you in this way whether a meeting with representatives of the authorities concerned could be convened before the settlement of the comments made under the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and, if possible, with your participation or someone from your system. Thank you. This is where I give the request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u89	Thank you. Madam Secretary, will you respond? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u90	I thank the Vice-President for the request. I will try to explain a little more, in more detail, exactly the area of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region. Here, as I mentioned before, some of the cadastral territories look from that decree. It has to do with the Public Health Act. It should also be noted that these territories do not correspond to the provisions in this Act on the protection of public health in the matter at hand, which means that these are urbanised areas of a urban nature which have 100,000 permanent inhabitants. That's why the decrees are changing. That means where it isn't, so the territory fell out of the decree, where everyone was used to being in the old one or the existing one. For municipalities that will be removed from the definition of the agglomeration and do not lie on their territory or the main infrastructure, for example, and the main railway line, or are not located near the main airport, there will indeed be no strategic noise mapping, but there will continue to be a standard assessment of the effects of noise associated with their operation, which is done everywhere else. It should therefore also be pointed out that the decree does not change at all the requirements for assessing projects in terms of noise impact on the health of the population, setting noise protection requirements and anti-noise measures. In particular, for transport constructions, the draft decree does not disturb or restrict special assessment. At this point, I can say that we are counting that the comment procedure will end on 20. 9. On the basis of the comments received, we will take several weeks to settle them, and I can say here that a plus or minus in the course of October we would convene the meeting with representatives of the municipalities. Because I want to have all the comments first so that we can deal with this comprehensively. So, yes, the meeting will be convened, colleagues, and possibly I will be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u91	Good afternoon. I thank the Minister and the Member. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the apologized Minister Svatopluk Němeček, on the issue of the unsustainable payment according to Section 16 and central medicines, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, as we know, health care is covered under Law 48/1997, detailed rules are laid down in Section 15. However, there is also a possibility of reimbursement in special cases, that is § 16, where the relevant health insurance undertaking pays in exceptional cases health services otherwise not covered by a health insurance undertaking, if the provision of such services is the only option in terms of the health status of the insured person. Except where there is a danger of delay, the provision of health services referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be subject to the prior consent of the review physician. According to information from health insurance companies recently, there is a great deal of pressure to pay according to this Section 16 and, in my view, this definition is not very precise in the law and requires clarification. Similarly, there is a rocket increase in so-called costs in so-called centres with a special contract, or, if we want, in specialised centres, where billions of health care costs increase following the release of the indicative criteria. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry is preparing and still submitting a proposal to regulate central care and to clarify § 16 in order to avoid uncontrolled cost increases and to achieve sustainability of health care costs. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to an answer if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u93	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Mr Simeon Karamazov, who will intersect the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the status of public utility, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u94	Dear Minister, in March of this year I asked you about the stage at which the Act on the Status of Public Benefits is being prepared. I pointed out that although the Civil Code with the status of public benefit, and therefore potentially also the advantages associated with it, the implementing rules are still missing. I am pleased that you kept the promise given in response to my interpelation and your Ministry in May submitted a bill to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. In this regard, Article 4 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty provides that the Commission is to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as Paragraph 2 of the same provision then lists individual public utility purposes, such as charity activities or environmental protection. [[16.20 hours]] In this context, however, I was struck by the fact that the law does not explicitly count on the exercise of hunting. That is, with the activities that aim to breed game and to develop hunting traditions that, according to the current wording of the Hunting Act, form part of the national cultural heritage. I therefore want to ask you whether you agree that hunting is a unique set of activities that should not be left unnoticed, and that hunting associations should also be among those who can gain public benefits. Domestic conditions include tens of thousands of people who spend their free time not only hunting, but mainly animal care and its habitat. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u95	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u96	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members. Indeed, our list is merely an example; after all, it is not the role of this law to redefine the public benefits. This is a matter of the Civil Code. We can't even do that in this law. As you describe it to me here, I'm not an expert on it, but it seems to me that hunting could be such a public interest. It'll be for the court's assessment later. We predict mechanisms for this caselaw to be unified. My personal opinion is that, yes, she could aspire to this status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u97	I thank the Minister for a clear and comprehensive answer. Mr Karel Rais, who will interpel apologize to Minister Kateřina Valachová on the issue of uncertainty in the teaching of geopolitics in the Middle East, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u98	Madam absent Madam Secretary. I think it is not worth repeating to you in detail the information that people have only from the press and from the public media, when the Ministry of Education first announced, on the basis of a letter from representatives of Palestinec living in the Czech Republic, that it will repair the atlas, where it is mentioned as the capital of Israel Jerusalem, and will replace it by Tel Aviv. After diplomatic intervention from the Embassy of the State of Israel changed its answer and, among other things, it wrote - I quote: The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports regrets the unfortunately chosen wording in a letter that could cause the current misinterpretation. In connection with the planned construction of the so-called House of Democracy, I can think of a number of uncertainties that I should ask you. But if I see the failed communication of the Ministry of Education with the embassy of the non-existent state of Palestine and the subsequent apology of the Embassy of the State of Israel on the capital of Israel, the question is whether the first client of the training system mentioned in the House of Democracy should not be the ministerial top managers. It may happen that next time, for example, the so-called representative office of the Donetsk People's Republic or any other similar association with the requirement to buy Karlštejn or Štiřín and your officials will communicate with him. I understand that not all of your advisors are international law experts. After all, there are also those who have been legally convicted and are more or less specialized in getting money out of the institution. And one day, they didn't make it. In relation to the number of advisors that surround you, my question is: What did you draw from management, personnel, financial or other conclusions so that similar international embarrassments do not recur in the future? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u99	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing. Mr Chalupa cancels his apology, is present. Mrs Zuzana Šánová, who will interpel the excused Minister of Health, Svatopluk, Německo, will give an eighth interview on capital payments. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u100	Hello, everyone present. I decided to do this because the Ministry of Health is constantly complaining about the lack of funds in the resort. So, esteemed absentee, Minister, the strike of entrepreneurs, or self-employed people, is an extraordinary and practically unprecedented matter. For this kind of protest, our privacy is decided by practical doctors, allegedly because they have not been increased in eight years by the so-called capital payment, the reimbursement of which is made on the basis of a payment order. Who will pay the most for this strike? Of course, patients, someone called clients, and health service providers, especially medical emergency services, which will have an estimated 20 percent more trips, as well as hospitals. So I would like to ask you two questions. Will these striking doctors be reduced the capital pay for the insured person by the time the doctor doesn't treat them? Or, second, does an organization proposing, recommending or even organising this strike pay these costs? It cannot be admitted that the strike will be financed from public health insurance. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u101	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Mr Adam Rykala will interpel the present Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec on the issue of boiler subsidies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u102	Thank you. Dear Minister, there are poor quality foreign boilers on the Czech market that can lead to a deterioration of air quality. Although they do not meet the required quality and emissions parameters, they are covered, some of them, by boiler subsidies. People get them so commonly without knowing about the problem, and they get subsidies for them. Doubtful boilers are listed in the so-called list of products and technologies that should meet the criteria of subsidies under the administration of the State Environmental Fund. The state therefore recommends them to people and grants them subsidies. But unfortunately, it's not just one boiler. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are willing to examine in detail the list of boilers you recommend. At the same time, I want to ask you how you will ensure that environmental protection and consumer protection are adequately ensured. I would like to point out that if these boilers are delivered to Czech households, they may be unsatisfactory, they will have to be replaced, and we can have many million-dollar damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u103	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u104	Good afternoon, Mr President, Mr colleague. What you said is a little bit of a Jerevan radio. It's "yes, but." I know - of course we have been dealing with this issue and we have been dealing with it for months. And it is a sad paradox that this matter is being dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment and not by the Ministry of Industry and the Czech Trade Inspection, because that would be more the case. We also asked the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and we know that producers of Czech boilers asked him to do the same a few years ago, and so far unsuccessfully. What's going on? As you rightly said, there is a certain list of eligible products. There are several hundred boilers. I would like to point out that there is only one boiler in question. The Association of Heating Technologies actually checked all those boilers, and again I say, even the State Environmental Fund is not here to examine individual boilers. It's like cars or any product. In fact, you, as a buyer consumer, must rely on the manufacturer to have certain - let's say it demonstrates the certificates that are from an accredited service. And it is true that the boiler manufacturer - it is a Polish producer, sorry about the Slovak producer - has actually documented the certificate from an independent accredited service from Slovakia. The association of producers of heating technology challenged this boiler, had it made a certificate from an accredited laboratory in Brno, and because we had two certificates against each other from two - and I stress - equal standing tests, which is a bit of a problem that goes to European level, and we simply asked for it, so we had it done - the State Environmental Fund requested a third arbitration opinion, which was from Poland and it confirmed that the boiler meets the parameters. So the State Environmental Fund has actually found itself in an unenviable position of someone who has in good faith given a list of products to implement the consumer, the applicant for boiler subsidies, in some way to the market, even though it was not entirely mandatory to provide him with some sort of guidance on the market, and then put himself in a position where he had to settle disputes between two independent accredited services. And, as you will certainly recognise, my colleague, through Mr President, this is not a position that an environmental fund could make. Because we don't have accredited people or specialists to assess whether the boilers match or not. This is the responsibility of producers who transmit those certificates and guarantee against the state fund and, of course, to the buyer that the boilers they sell and offer and which are subsidized meet all the necessary parameters. [[16.30 hours]] We are, of course, in very intensive contact with the Association of Heating Technology Enterprises. I hope I don't tell any secrets when I say - hopefully it doesn't sound boastful - when I say that the association greatly appreciated the Ministry of Environment's approach and the state fund, because she said it was a position that was very above-standard. And I understand some Czech producers who feel threatened by this. But it is important for us whether the manufacturer will actually give this certification. But because we were not satisfied with this, of course, we called on and asked the Ministry of Industry and Trade in August, which has the competence to do so, and we also did so in cooperation with the association of manufacturers of this technique, to launch without delay steps that would make the boiler market in the Czech Republic more effective, because they appear here, and not at the same time, but for several years, certain problems that are latent and that are highlighted in the long term. So, to your question. We don't check directly, but thanks to the association, the whole list is being checked. They said that they checked basically all the boilers, that they had information about all the boilers. The boiler is one, and this is how we came up with it. I firmly believe that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in cooperation with the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, will be able to accommodate us and that in this matter we will go towards solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u105	Does the Member have an additional question? [[I don't.]] Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera, who will intersect the absent minister of education, Kateřina Valachová, on political promotion in primary school textbooks, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u106	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, this week the pupils of primary schools in the Ústí Region received a new textbook called English grammar games. There would be nothing special about this if, on the first hand, the captain of the Ústí Region, Oldřich Bubeníček, with his health care professional, did not look at the children. The textbook was distributed three weeks before the regional elections and was issued partly for money from the regional budget. I have it at my disposal, and I'm happy to give it to you so you can see for yourself. According to me and pursuant to § 32 para. 1 school law prohibits the activity and promotion of political parties and movements in schools - and I quote: "The activities of political parties and political movements and their promotion are not permitted in schools and educational establishments. " In this textbook, it is a clear abuse of children for political campaign and the above paragraph of the law is denied. Not to mention the qualitative level of the textbook. How does the Ministry of Education ensure the quality of published textbooks by the Czech School Inspectorate? Can any publisher distribute their materials to schools? Madam Secretary, I ask for a clear opinion. Do you think this case is in accordance with the law? At the same time, I wonder what your procedure will be to prevent this outrageous campaign and child abuse from promoting a candidate in the regional elections for the Communist Party of Bohemia Moravia. Or is the time coming back when the regional Communist secretaries will speak to us? Do you realize that what was unthinkable a few years ago is now gradually becoming the norm? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u107	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Jan Klán, who will interpelise the excused Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the case of the Service Act, will give an 11th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u108	Dear Minister, for over a year now, the Civil Service Act, which has been the main task of stability of the state administration, its professionalisation and depoliticisation, has been fully effective. Instead, it literally concreted itself. Many experienced officials have left. Those who were supposed to leave stayed. Selection procedures are ambiguous in a number of areas. Let me give you an example. In my opinion, being director of the Public Procurement Department at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Education or another Ministry is an almost identical activity, which differs only by subject matter. Why must a person in one position have a third degree of language training and clearance to a level of secrecy, and in another ministry it is without a language, almost without a university? Respectfully, with a college, but professionally completely out of it. How is that possible? But the mistake is much more. All ministries can be selected for the case of Deputy Minister of Health, where education has not been specified. For the strategy section, we would expect it to be a lawyer, an economist or a sociologist. But to occupy such a post by an expert with a master's degree in the management of art culture seems quite doubtful. It is obvious that if such a person is a disponent of the degree of secrecy and almost nowhere in the state administration you will find such a high level of clearance and that person has it, he must win the tender. Isn't that purposeful manipulation with the selection procedure? Does the Ministry of the Interior plan to amend this law as a guarantor of the Service Act and when does it expect to be submitted to the Government or to the Chamber of Deputies? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u109	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Radim Holeček will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on EET and advertising. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u110	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the matter of a very, very bad television advertising for electronic sales records. In this masterpiece, you're trying to convince the voters how great an EET is. First of all, I lack any mention of who this is going to be about. Secondly, in advertising, you're looking at the number of 18 billion, that's the amount that most experts claim is completely unrealistic. When I saw the commercial, I felt like I saw communist fliers from the '50s. All the characters are smiling and promising how great everything's gonna be. Well, it's not gonna be great. Advertising is built on the promise of what can be bought for 18 billion. I'm asking why you didn't hand over the $30 million that this piece cost to 200 pensioners per year's pensions. You'd do them better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u111	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mrs Anna Putnová will intersect the absent Minister of Education in the case of the Ombudsman. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u112	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear absent Madam Secretary of Education, my question concerns the school Ombudsman. When your predecessor established a school ombud, I called it giving out the newsstands. In order for this sticker not to be linked to the new Ombudsman, several fundamental questions need to be clarified. The first concerns the position of the Ombudsman in the structure of the Ministry. Second, to ensure his independence. Thirdly, clarification of its powers and responsibilities. Fourthly, what is the relationship between the school Ombudsman and the Czech School Inspectorate. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u113	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Mr František Vácha will also interpel the Minister of Education on plagiarism at the University of Pardubice. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u114	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I know you're excused. However, the chair of the school committee, Professor Zlatuška, has made several comments in the media on the case of plagiarism at the University of Pardubice. Unfortunately, he's not here today. Then I'll let myself out. Plagiarism, i.e. the theft of the mental work of scientific results and their publication under another name, is one of the most difficult crimes on academic grounds. When the supreme academic official does so, in this case, two deans and one department head, a young promising scientist, is particularly reprehensible. Such a thing probably happened at the University of Pardubice. The correct procedure of the rector of the university would be to investigate the matter, and if he finds it to be an intellectual property theft, take steps to remedy it. But what Professor Ludwig answered at the request of a young scientist in Pardubice University is shocking. Basically, he replied that it was common practice on academic grounds. [[16.40 hours]] Based on this answer, Professor Zlatuška called for the Rector of Pardubice University to resign. Under pressure, the Rector has appointed an ethical commission. He took it from the deans, his subordinates. The Ethics Commission will decide whether scientific articles are or are not plagiarism, which is, of course, clear from a mere comparison. However, this committee should, in my opinion, mainly address the response of Rector Ludwig that plagiarism is normal. How will such a commission decide when he appointed the Rector himself? It is clear. Madam Secretary, do you agree with Rector Ludwig's opinion that plagiarism is common practice at our universities? In response to President Zlatušek, you say that you will await the conclusions of the Ethics Commission. Do you believe that the ethics commission appointed by the Rector will decide the Rector objectively? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And what would you conclude if plagiarism was really involved? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u115	Thank you. Mr Radim Holeček, Mr Radim Holeček. In the fifteenth interpelation, he will intersect the present Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec in the case of the oil warehouse in Vany. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u116	Dear Minister, I learned from the media about the intention of the Prague investor to extend the Vany port in Ústí nad Labem to the oil and oil warehouse. The translation site, which is to be built in 2017, is supposed to pass up to 100,000 cubic meters of fuel per year. As I understand it, diesel and rape oil methyl ester will be moved from railway tanks to storage tanks. The modified fuel will eventually end up in autocisters to deliver them. In the official announcement of the construction for the city and regional office the designer states that the construction will not have significant negative effects on public health or the environment. This was also confirmed by the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscapes of the Czech Republic. However, the residents of Ústí nad Labem are turning to me with the fear that the floods will threaten the escape of oil and oil into the Elbe. How do you feel about this structure by the river? I'm also interested in one more aspect of the whole thing. The Vanyovs have been carrying the weight of the unfinished D8 highway on their shoulders for many years. Up to 17,000 cars will pass on a working day. Barely any of them will be burdened after 20 years with the arrival of the highway in 2017, will they be burdened again with trucks?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u117	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my colleague, according to my information on this intention, i.e. the oil exchange in Vanyov, as officially called the Vanyov mineral oil warehouse, is currently under investigation by the EIA. The Regional Authority of the Ústí Region is the competent authority. The trial has not yet been completed. The result of the findings of the investigation procedure, which will also be issued on the basis of public statements and the public authorities concerned, is therefore not to be anticipated at this time. As one of the institutions that has spoken about this so far, the Nature and Landscape Protection Agency, the Ústecko Regional Workplace, was a competent nature conservation authority on the protection section of a European important location. Only in this context has it given an opinion on the intention, which states that the intention in question cannot significantly affect the subject matter of protection or the integrity of a Europeanly significant locality or avian region, namely the significant influence on the EVL Porta Bohemica is excluded. The reason is that the intention is located on the fortified areas of the city of Ústí nad Labem, part of Vaňov outside its own EVL. The issue of a possible emergency situation on the facility is addressed in the notification of the intention and the Agency for Nature and Landscape Protection, the regional workplace, had at the time of the publication of the opinion notice of the intention at its disposal. The information contained therein, according to the communication of the relevant official who issued the opinion, did not give rise to concerns about underestimating the situation of the petitioner. Generally, all aspects that you have named mean any danger in the event of flooding, which is of course well known in this area, is not only a theoretical risk, but there are also absolutely specific situations described in the flood situation and, of course, others including transport solutions and noise loads over a certain limit or, for example, a deterioration of the air from the point of view of increased dustiness, these are all things that the EIA process must assess, and there will undoubtedly be a number of comments from the public perspective. Among other things, our other organizations, which is the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, the Regional Inspectorate of Ústí nad Labem, will express themselves within its special components, which is air and water, until 29 September of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u119	Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u120	Minister, thank you for the information that, therefore, the EIA investigation procedure is still under way, that it has not occurred. My point is, if you know... we're actually from the same region. Vanyov is beautiful, there's this romantic waterfall, people are waiting for the tourism to start there. That's why my point is that there's nothing industrial, noisy, something that would pollute the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u121	Thank you. Mr Adam Rykala will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the sale of ČEZ flats. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It doesn't make much sense when Mr. Babiš isn't here to interpel him. I would like to hear a personal answer from him, but I am sorry, because he constantly criticizes the work of Members, while for three years he is a government MP and a government minister, so there is no opposition MP, he criticizes, and yet he is not here. Where is he when it's his duty to be on interpellation? I don't know. Maybe he's pumping somewhere, maybe he's on the campaign. I'm sorry he's not here, and I'm gonna wait for him to be here in person. I ask, Mr Vice-President, that ministers go to interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u123	I would very much like to do that, but it is not in my power, my colleague. However, I will inform the Prime Minister. Thank you. Another 17th interview will be given by Mr Jan Klán, who will also interpel the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the register of contracts. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u124	Dear Minister, as of 1 July 2016, there is a register of contracts on the portal of the Ministry of the Interior, where the legal definition of actors must publish all contracts above CZK 50,000. I want to ask you the following questions on this subject. How many contracts have been published? Do some of the actors concerned have a problem with the publication? Has any of the citizens found that a contract had been concluded at a disadvantage? How many entries have been to the contract register since 1 July 2016? Has there been a reduction in corruption when some nonprofit organizations claim that this is a central anti-corruption law? Will a citizen be saved if he can look into a disadvantaged contract? How many employees are employed in the register of contracts under the Ministry of the Interior? And what category do they fall under the Service Act? What financial costs did the Ministry of the Interior incur to establish a register of contracts? And how much does it cost to run it? Who blackens optional data on contracts concluded? Is there a uniform methodology, or do you like it because of those who insert contracts into the register? According to my information, for example, in certain ministries, both ordinary officials and lawyers do so. It's divided into two categories. Contracts concluded at national level blacken the secretary, at transnational level lawyers. So once again, the uncertainty. I'd like to ask you for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u125	I'm sure you'll get it. In the 18th session, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Minister Daniel Herman, will interpel the question of increasing copyright fees. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u126	Dear Minister, I would like to thank you in advance. You're reliable, as opposed to some of the ministers you're dealing with. I think it's almost 100% participation. Anyway, I'm gonna start off sharp. In general, I have no doubt that copyright fees have to be paid. The question is, however, what is specifically charged and, of course, at what level. And that's the problem we've been talking about lately. The increase in fees prepared by the Protective Association of Authors from next year took the breath of a number of people, including a number of representatives of municipalities and various associations, which are opposed to an increase that is simply jumping, which, of course, an increase of 50 percent is jumping. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to support their protest, I say that frankly. I understand an increase that reflects, for example, price developments, which obviously is not a 50% increase. Do you agree with me, Minister? If so, the question is what can be done about it. The increase is likely to have support in the existing wording of the Act. It's a bad law, then. Even the wrong law must be followed, but we should try to change it. Better said, we have to. And that's where my question goes. How should the copyright law change to avoid such excesses as we are witnessing? What's the idea of the Ministry of Culture? What and when will it be presented to the Chamber of Deputies to avoid dramatic prevention of copyright charges? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u128	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy for this question, and I can say that this request has blown my breath. But, of course, we have to stick to the correct boundaries, so I'm going to answer to the extent that the question was. The creation of tariffs for collective administrators and the adequacy of their rates of remuneration for represented authors and other rights holders are subject to criticism by users of the subject of protection. Recently, a new wave of this criticism was launched by the initiative applied by the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic, together with a number of municipalities and their associations, at the Ministry of Culture and at the Office for the Protection of Competition. It specifically concerned the collective administrator of the OSA, who, as was said here, significantly increased the rates of remuneration required for the use of reproduced music for the next year. The complaint was duly investigated by the Ministry and dealt with within its legal powers. Unfortunately, the association did not make use of the option given to it by the existing copyright law, namely to apply to the collective administrator, who is then obliged to request his opinion on the proposed tariffs. The Ministry of Culture is not entitled to enter into these, in principle, private relations by the state regulation of the agreed rates, except by checking compliance with the prescribed procedure. This is without prejudice, in particular, to the monopoly status of monopoly administrators, to the power of the competition authority to assess remuneration rates from a competitive point of view of legislation. On your question of what position the Ministry of Culture takes on this issue, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Culture has responded to the existing difficulties in negotiating remuneration rates by proposing a new comprehensive procedure. This proposal is part of the current government transposition amendment to the copyright law. The aim is to ensure not only full transparency in the creation of tariffs, proper justification for any change and wider possibility for users to comment on them, but also effective enforcement of the fulfilment of all the associated obligations of collective administrators. The amendment will be renegotiated next week in the guarantee committee, where amendments will be discussed. I believe that the outcome of this discussion will be the added value of the government proposal and that it will not delay the process of its approval, and thus the proper legislative solution to the sensitive issue of tariff-setting. Finally, I would like to express my pleasure that we are not really playing a coalition or opposition policy on this substantive issue, but, as I can see from the wording of this question, we are working together to move things in the right direction. And thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u129	I thank the Minister for his words. Does the Member have an additional question? He doesn't. Thank you. Let's move on to the 19th interpellation. Mrs Nina Nováková will intersect the absent Lady of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, on placing children in institutional care. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The absent Madam Secretary, my interpellation, which I will not say whole, has to do with the previous interpellation concerning comprehensive care for families that are falling apart or are not fully functional. A few days ago, we could all see a TV show that captured the tragic story of two mothers who had their children taken away, although they wanted to take care of them, and the children were taken away from them by learning to love their father, whom they feared. You, Madam Secretary, got off there. And as a mother, it was a nice show. You said how terrible it would be if it happened to your children or in your family. But as secretary, it was a disaster to perform like this. It's your resort, and something like that happens in your resort. I have to say, I spent several hours with one of those mothers, and it's just unbelievable. The first thing you do is take the kids away from the resort you run. Only then do you look at something else, and you are completely incapable of fixing the thing that has been dragging for months. Those children will be marked forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u131	I thank the Member, she will be answered in writing. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will give the 20th interview. He will interpel the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of the intention to set up another KOC. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u132	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there have been serious disputes between VZP and Proton Centre Prague for several long years, first of all about the strange and very disadvantageous and VZP very heavily burdensome contract on the future contract, later on the conclusion of the contract on the reimbursement of health care. According to the latest information, all disputes have been terminated and a standard health care contract has been concluded in accordance with the requirements of the GTC. The Proton Centre is now a standard outpatient facility providing medical care for proton radiation based on indications of complex oncological centers. In this context, however, speculation appears that this situation may not be permanent and that the emergence of a new centre is on the horizon. I would therefore like to ask you to state whether this condition, as I have read in the previous, whether this condition will be permanent, or whether and under what conditions the Ministry of Health is considering the creation of a new complex oncology centre in the Proton Centre of Prague. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u133	Thank you, honourable Member. In the twenty-first session, Mr Petr Bendl will intersect the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok in order to prevent the transit of freight transport in Prague. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u134	Thank you for the floor. I have one question concerning the announced restrictions on the transit of the freight transport of Prague. I want to ask the Minister what measures he is going to take if Prague decides to stop the transit of freight. The problem won't be solved. We all know that this is not a matter of one week, month, or perhaps not even one year, when the situation will be improved already because of the state of transport infrastructure and what we are discussing here. The problem would only be transferred to Central Bohemia cities and municipalities, which is certainly not a solution. I think it is the duty of the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport to prevent such action. That's why I want to know if the Ministry is ready for this and what measures it is planning. When I have one more minute and I speak to the wall here, because only one minister and no one else sits behind me, I will ask you, Mr President, because I have yet another interpelation for Minister Chovanec, Minister Jurečka, who does not come here at all to withdraw my interpelation. [[Daniel Herman]] I think it's undignified. There has never been such contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I agree with you. I'm pulling your interpellation. Mr Michal Kučera, who is not present, is to present the twenty-second interpellation. So his interpellation is failing. Let's move on to the 23rd interpellation. Mr Simeon Karamazov will intersect the absent Minister Dan Ťok in Case D35. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u136	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, perhaps the most monitored transport construction in the Pardubice Region is the construction of D35 communication. Yesterday, I learned from the press that this construction is going to be delayed for archaeological research. However, delays were expected. For road users in the Pardubice Region, the award of a public contract is unique to that extent. Archaeological works on the first two sections of the D35 from Opatovice nad Labem to Ostrov have to go to more than half a billion according to the assignment of ŘSD. In addition to a few kilometers of Hradec D11 and a short section of D35 from Sedlic to Opatovice there is no highway so far. Until now, we haven't been practicing archaeological research, but they've entered it directly with museums. The confusion is there, because we have no experience of it, the head of ŘSD Vebr admits. As a Member of the Pardubice Region, of course, I closely follow the issue of this construction. I believe that construction is one of the priorities for the Ministry as well. So I would like to ask what support the Pardubic roadmen, the ŘSD, have from you. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u137	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing. Mrs Nina Nováková will interpel the excused Minister of Education, Kateřina Valachová, on the subject of school assistants. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary absent, I wanted to ask you, if you were here, how you would speed up the fair reward for assistants in schools. We know we're talking about an assistant educator, a personal assistant, and so-called. a school assistant, a term that would be newly introduced in connection with the drawing of European subsidies. This is nice. We've all heard your plans. But it's the first month of the school year when assistants, if paid, are paid at the expense of other educators. So at the beginning of the year in the first quarter, the atmosphere is set, when one is justly rewarded at the expense of others, who thus cannot be fairly rewarded. Therefore, I beg you very urgently to speed up this discrepancy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u139	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Bendl withdrew his 25th interview. We're getting to the 26th interpellation. Mrs Věra Kovářová will intersect the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the extension of the blue zones in Prague. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u140	Minister, I wanted to ask you in general how the Ministry of Transport assessed whether the legal conditions for the extension of the Prague Blue Zones have been fulfilled and also the fate of our initiative, which we have called for the Ministry of Transport to exercise supervision over the issue of the regulation, which has become the basis for the extension of the Prague Blue Zones, where we have some doubts about the fulfilment of the legal conditions. I will appreciate the written answer, but you will understand that by mid-October, its value will be lower than the value of your response today. Still, I thank you in advance for the written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u141	I thank the Member, she will be answered in writing. We're getting to the last interpellation of today. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec to oversee the publication of documents in the register of contracts. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to ask whether and how the Ministry of the Interior controls the content of documents published in the register of contracts. On the website of the Ministry of Health is published document, which contains e.g. recommendations for bonus contracts, sensitive arrangements, bonus levels, bonus calculation mechanisms, discount levels, where appropriate, and calculation mechanisms, payment terms, donation agreements, etc. For example, for a donation contract, i.e. for a contract between a pharmaceutical company and a hospital on the basis of which the company provides a donation to the hospital, usually in the form of a financial contribution, and the hospital undertakes to use it for specified purposes, usually educational, a recommendation is given: The commitment of the parties to keep confidential the facts which are the business secrets of the parties, with the company considering that the company is a business secret within the meaning of Section 504 of the Civil Code, in particular information on the purpose of the donation and payment terms. Justification: The gifts to hospitals are one of the tools that enable pharmaceutical companies to promote the increase of the erudition of experts, the amount and purpose of the donation is negotiated individually and may represent sensitive information for the parties. If we analyse this recommendation, we will conclude that if the donation of a pharmaceutical company only pursues a godly purpose for the education of experts, then the purpose of the donation or payment terms are not competitively relevant for the farm or the hospital. None of the parties in this agreement obtains or provides an advantage on the market. In such a case, these data may not fall under the definition of business secrets. However, if the farm by donation is primarily intended to gain priority in the supply of medicines to hospitals or to encourage consumption, prescription, use or sale of medicines at the expense of competition, it is not a donation in the sense of altruism, then it is true that information about the purpose of the donation or payment conditions is a fact of competitive importance for both the farm and the hospital and would satisfy the definition of business secrets. But then it wouldn't be a donation agreement at all, but it would actually be a promotion of sales, virtually. the form of indirect advertising which, in the case of medicines, would appear to be contrary to Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation. [[Attention on time.]] Dear Minister, I would like to inform you whether this opinion and the recommendations of the Ministry of Health have been consulted with you and the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-019-260.u143	Thank you, honourable Member. That was the last of the interpelations. Mr Petr Bendl withdrew his three interpelations. That's how we used up all the oral interpellations. I shall conclude this item, conclude today's meeting and interrupt this meeting of the House by tomorrow morning, when we shall proceed with item No. 261. Have a good night.
