ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-008-050.u1	50. Government bill amending Act No. 73/2012 Coll., on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on fluorinated greenhouse gases /German Printing 754/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will again be presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-008-050.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be brief again. The main objective of the amendment is to adapt the law according to the newly adopted regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on fluorinated greenhouse gases. This Regulation aims to progressively reduce emissions of these substances. Let me just remind you that fluorinated greenhouse gases have up to a thousand times higher greenhouse potential than the CO2 molecule. This amendment regulates the conditions for the operation and marketing of equipment containing fluorinated greenhouse gases in order to reduce the risk of their non-professional installation and thus prevent the release of these substances into the air. In accordance with the requirements of the relevant Directive of the fluorinated greenhouse gas Regulation, a ban on the sale of so-called non-hermetically sealed refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment filled with fluorinated greenhouse gases, unless it is demonstrated at the time of sale that their installation is carried out by a certified person, i.e. person who holds a certificate pursuant to Section 10 of Act No. 73/2012 Sb. The reason for this is that in the installation of cooling and air conditioning equipment, expertise and practical capabilities are essential to eliminate the leakage of fluorinated greenhouse gases which could be caused by non-professional treatment. [[13.20 hours]] At the same time, the facts of administrative offences for infringements of the obligations laid down in the regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases are complementary and, in response to experience from practice, it is proposed to extend the powers of the Czech Trade Inspection so that, in addition to carrying out the checks, the competence to impose remedial measures or to conduct administrative offences proceedings should be imposed following the checks carried out. Let me just stress that the material has been discussed by the government. All amendments have been incorporated. We dealt with it, of course, with the relevant expert associations and all the contradictions were settled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-008-050.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-008-050.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll follow up with the Minister, I'll be brief. The amendment aims to supplement the existing Act No. 73/2012 Coll., on Ozone-like Substances. This is basically the implementation of European legislation. There are three major circles that change our law. As has already been mentioned here, the first circuit concerns installations which are not airtight and contain fluorinated greenhouse gases. That goal is to prevent unprofessional manipulation, because there have been many unprofessional installations and manipulations in the past, and then there is the risk of leakage of these very substances. That's what changes the novel. The second heading concerns the adaptation of certification and the process of granting certificates and evaluation bodies, where there is an addition for those evaluation bodies to submit more accurate lists to the Ministry of Environment. The same for those test subjects where there will be an obligation to keep lists of persons, which has not been completely affected until now. The third heading concerns the extension of the powers of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, which will be able to grant and control compliance. At present, the possibility is simply not there and sanctions are also missing. So this is actually what our original 2012 law is about to change. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-008-050.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see an application at this point. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate and asking whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final words. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee, and I ask whether anyone is proposing a commandment to another Committee on the Committee on Guarantee. I'm not registering any applications. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 395, with 118 Members registered, for proposal 101, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see any motion, in which case I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
