ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 149/2003 Coll., on the circulation of forest reproductive material of forest species of forest importance and artificial crossbreeds intended for the restoration of the forest and for forestation, and on the amendment of certain related laws (Act on trade in forest reproductive material), as amended, and Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws (forest law), as amended /German press 732/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will also be made in this case by Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, to present the Government's bill amending Act No. 149/2003 Coll., on the circulation of forest reproductive material, forest species and artificial crossbreeds, intended for the restoration of the forest and for forestation, and on the amendment of certain related laws, i.e. the Act on trade in forest reproductive material, as amended, and Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and amendment and addition of some laws, i.e. forest law, as amended. The main reason for the submission of a government proposal is the elimination of identified deficiencies in the practical application of the Forest reproductive material trade law and the need to adapt certain parts of it following the declared National Programme for the Protection and Reproduction of Forest Gene Fund and the granting of subsidies under this programme. At the same time, the forestry law is also partly regulated, in particular in the part concerning the possibility of shortening the period of validity of the forest economic plan. In particular, the proposed amendments to the laws specify or regulate the rights and obligations of the owner, tenant or hoard of the land on which the source of the reproductive material or gene base is located. Issues of evidence of the abolition of the inclusion of forest genetic resource in the national forest protection and reproduction programme: Conditions for the provision of samples of forest genetic resources for the purpose of fulfilling the national seed bank and forest tree explanates. Rules on the provision of funds for the protection and reproduction of forest gene pool. Possibility of the forest owner to submit an application to shorten the period of validity of the forest management plan. Last but not least, the Ministry of Agriculture can grant an exception to the requirements for reproductive material used for the artificial restoration of the forest and forestification in setting up research areas on land intended to fulfil the functions of the forest. The Government's draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 33rd meeting of 23 June 2016 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill as presented to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House press 732/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Miloš Babiš, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, let me introduce you to resolution 120, which the Agricultural Committee adopted at its 33rd meeting on 23 June 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 149/2003 Coll., on the circulation of forest reproductive material of forest species of forest importance and artificial crossbreeds, intended for the restoration of the forest and for forestation, and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on the Forests and on the Amendment and Supplement to Certain Acts, as amended, House Press 732. [[Law on trade in forest reproductive material]] [[Forest Law]] Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture Patrik Mlynář, report by Mr Miloš Babiš and after the debate: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 149/2003 Coll., on the circulation of forest reproductive material of forest species of forest importance and artificial crossbreeds, intended for the restoration of the forest and for forestation, and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws, as amended, House print 732, approve; [[Law on trade in forest reproductive material]] [[Forest Law]] II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u5	Thank you, too. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. I therefore now ask Mr Čihák for his contribution and Mrs Váhalová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for legislation amending Act No. 149/2003 Coll., is a law on trade in forest reproductive material, as amended, and Act No. 289/1995 Coll., i.e. so-called forest law, as amended, which aims to remedy the shortcomings identified in the practical application of these laws and to clarify their incorrect text. At the same time, the proposed changes in the above laws give rise to changes in some long-term non-compliant legal interpretations of laws that are already outdone and need the necessary updating. This is a gradual settlement and simplification of non-compliant legislation, which is no longer possible to circumvent and wait for the promised comprehensive amendment of forest law, which is still not on the table of the Ministry of Agriculture. I have developed this gradual amendment in my proposed amendments, which, of course, I have consulted and prepared with experts in forestry, state administration, SVOL, which is the Association of Owners of Municipal and Private Forests, etc. All proposals were made on the basis of long-term experience in practice and have ongoing processes resulting from the proposed regulation to simplify and straighten. The first major proposed change is the reduction of the forest protection zone from 50 to 30 metres. I will briefly zoom in on the need for this change. My proposal releases the existing too strict and administratively demanding protection of the 50-meter protection zone of the forest and introduces clear and understandable rules for the newly established distance. I didn't actually make up the proposed distance change from 50 to 30 meters. I came out of this amendment with forestry experts from the Saxon Forest Law, which has been functioning without problems since 1992 in the Free State of Saxony and has clearly proven itself in practice. If I were to find a similar situation in our law, then in Law No. 89, the Civil Code, there is a similar legislation in relation to the placement of trees on neighboring lands, so it is not really new or surprising. [[17,00 hours]] The current, existing text, which is complex and unsatisfactory, is not unambiguous and the decision-making practice of the forest authorities is inconsistent. Some authorities agree to the location of buildings from five meters from the forest, others insist on distances that are equal to the so-called. absolute height bonita, that's basically the height of a tree to which it can grow, and that's how the distance is determined. And then there are these weaker officials who only make the 50 meters, and the only possible distance from the forest line is not possible. The adoption of this amendment will be done by me. also to save the costs of issuing consents to the placement of buildings, as the protection zone will be reduced to a clear and sufficient distance of 30 metres and a single definition is proposed that only buildings of social interest can be placed in this reduced protection zone subject to the impossibility of another solution, which will significantly limit the number of applications. At the same time, no transitional provision is proposed, which implies that the proposed restriction will not be touched at any distance by legally built buildings so far. With the current wording of Section 14, it is quite clear that there is also a possible corruption environment, which, thanks to the specification of the minimum distance of unstoppability up to 30 metres, is completely excluded without any possible concessions and variants. It should also be said that this is an agenda that accounts for almost 75 percent of the activities of the state forest administration, so a clear simplification. The introduction of clear and comprehensible rules in this section also implies the certainty of a uniform approach to the issue of the opinions of the national forest administration, which is the main reason and purpose of this adaptation. It should also be noted that by reducing the forest protection zone to 30 metres from the current 50 there will be no threat to the forest. The distance of 30 meters is sufficient for me. also because it is necessary to add to this distance a six-meter band, which is also mentioned in the new proposed paragraph. 3 § 14, which is the minimum distance of forest vegetation from the border of forest land, in which forest owners will be able to restore the vegetation. This means that this mooring of a six-metre border from the forest border for the restoration of the vegetation will clearly reduce the likelihood of subsequent potential problems and neighbouring disputes. [[Neighborhood?]] The proposed amendment in the event of adoption will significantly reduce the administrative burden on both municipal authorities with extended scope and regional authorities, which decide to review the approval or any disagreements of municipal authorities with extended scope as is currently the case. The purpose of the new provision of Section 14 is also to exclude negative activities carried out on the basis of the decision of the construction or other body of the state administration in the forest protection zone to the forest itself. According to the amendments, the distance of buildings will be, respectively. any intervention from the heel of trees 36 meters, i.e. 30 is a protection zone and 6 meters is a distance from the forest land border, and the distance is clear. An anchoring of a fixed distance of 30 metres from the forest is therefore the introduction of a guarantee that the forest owners will not directly restrict the newly placed buildings or equipment and at the same time do not limit the performance of the forest functions. Subsequently, problems with the applications of owners of buildings for measures to ensure the safety of persons and property under Section 22 of the Forest Act, where significant area interventions of mining and also restrictions on forest management are often required, etc. That was the first amendment. The second amendment is an amendment and an adjustment relating to the pursuit of the activities of an expert forest economy. In short, I will zoom in on who and what is actually an expert forest farmer. A professional forest farmer is a man who ensures compliance with the provisions of forest law and professional level of management in non-state forests, especially small owners up to 50 hectares. Of the most important things provided by a professional forest farmer: he cares for the protection of forests and the proper management of them, he approves the owner of the forest mining, he cooperates with the owner of the forest for the restoration of the forest and forestification, provides the owner with advisory activities, provides the owner with financial contributions and services, etc. etc. Here you can see that the expert forest farmer has a considerable impact on the state of the forest, and eventually you can see for yourself. When you come into any forest, you know what kind of expert forest farmer works there, because that forest looks like it, too. In the first amendment in § 20, I supplement in paragraph 1. 6 possibility of entrances and standing in the forest as well as expert forest economy. This arrangement will allow a professional forest farmer to legally ride and become a motor vehicle in the forest, thus effectively providing his services to forest owners. In carrying out his activities, the forest manager is forced to drive through forests where he does not perform the function of professional forest manager, and therefore it is proposed to bind the entry and parking of the motor vehicle to the performance of the professional forest manager, not to the forests in which he performs the function. This addition will make it much easier to move and perform the function of every professional forest manager who has to move fluently across the forest without any penalty. The second proposed modification as regards the forestry professional is the proposal for the grant and withdrawal of the licence. The State shall pay for the activities of an expert forest manager in assets up to 50 hectares of forest. Over 50 hectares of forest, it's already covered by the owner of the forest. The licence is mostly issued for an indefinite period, i.e. As soon as an expert forest farmer is set, he basically has it for life. In case of loss of productivity to perform the work of a professional forest manager, which may happen by losing interest in the state of the forest, he may have health problems, within those health problems he is not so mobile, etc. etc., it is necessary to respond as quickly as possible to this problem and it is necessary to replace a dysfunctional expert forest manager functional and responsible. The proposed amendment provides that, in the event of the final withdrawal of the licence in the event of failure to fulfil its obligations, the forestry professional may re-apply to the grant of the licence after five years. This is not the case in the current wording of the law. At the moment, after the final withdrawal of the licence, the Forest Administration Authority is basically obliged to issue the same licence again to the same person on the basis of a new application. It works by applying for a new licence as a matter of fact, the official only finds out if the applicant fulfils the conditions for granting it, and no one can figure out why the licence was withdrawn. This procedure is completely absurd and needs to be eliminated by a five-year delay, as I propose in my amendment. In some areas of the territorial competence of the state administration, officials are already issuing fixed-term licences and prejudging that a professional forest farmer actually has a life license issued, and whether it works there or not, they don't care. This is for example. in Prague-West. There they issue a license for a period of ten years, and every professional forest farmer is so aware that he actually has to perform his duties as needed and cannot behave in a way that he is not interested in the condition of the forest. [[17.10 hours]] The third and final adaptation is to complement the wrong wording of the present interpretation of the law, which is basically the essence of the amendment in both the texts of the law on trees and the forest law, and the interpretation of the law on withdrawal of the licence. The incorrect wording is that there is no reason to withdraw the licence because of a breach or failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the decisions granting the licence and the need to delete the incorrect wording, where this is only a breach of the conditions laid down in the decision granting the licence itself. My proposal clearly specifies this wording and corrects the legislative error of the present interpretation of the law. I can conclude by saying that the forest law deserves gradual amendment. As I said at the outset of my speech that a comprehensive amendment is not yet being prepared, my amendments are a kind of impulse and the beginning of the necessary legislative adjustments and amendments to the forest law that this law urgently needs. We may even get to the hunting law this year, which needs to be developed in exactly the same way, to start updating the hunting law, but that still comes to us in the next meetings. With the statement of the Ministry of Agriculture, with his comment on my amendments, that the aim and purpose of the government bill under House print 732 is not the opening of the forest law, I cannot agree in any way. My proposals support the work of the professional public, the state administration and other entities active in forestry and provide order and a system. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mrs Váhalová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed discussion, I will sign up to an amendment which addresses an urgent situation where, following the amendment to the rules on the performance of the statistical service, data relating to the withdrawal and withdrawal of land intended for the performance of the functions of the forest under Act No. 89/1995 Coll., on the State Statistical Service. This data must be reported under the relevant legislation, which is in this case a forest law. The forest law must establish an obligation for forest authorities to report data on withdrawal and withdrawal fees in the relevant format of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture was informed of the need to amend the forest law in a timely manner and is in agreement with it. Data relating to the withdrawal and withdrawal fees of land intended to fulfil the functions of the forest represent a unique set of data, which are used both in the Ministry of Agriculture and in the Ministry of Environment. The Ministry of the Environment has at its disposal unique information on the area of land which has been excluded from fulfilling the functions of forests, broken down by purpose of withdrawal, which cannot be obtained from any other source. Aggregated data are used to register land statements which have been excluded from the performance of forest functions for a given purpose and also provide an overview of the amount of withdrawal fees, aggregated data are also used to control and predict the income of the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic. The proposal submitted is merely a clarification of the obligation for forest authorities and does not in any way burden forest owners or other private persons. This situation needs to be addressed quickly, because according to the current legislation data collection is only ensured until the end of 2016. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the data for 2016 can already be registered according to the forest law. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support for my amendment, which I will then apply to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u9	Yes, thank you. The Member was the last speaker in the general debate. I'll ask if anyone else is interested in getting off. If not, I am ending the general debate. I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words at this stage. This is not the case, and therefore - I do not have any comment here, nor do I have any proposal to return the proposal, so we can proceed to a detailed debate. I have Mr Čihák and Mrs Váhalová entered into a detailed debate. So please, in this order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which are listed in the system under number 4513. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Váhalová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u12	I would like to sign up for an amendment under number 5050.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-008-009.u13	Yes. Anyone else in detail for the debate? If not, I am also ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final words now. It's not like that. Mr rapporteur, I have no note here that we have something to vote on at this stage, so we can end the second reading of this press and thank you both for your cooperation. The next item is point 11, which is the Government's bill amending Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on Foreign Trade in Military Materials, and on Supplementary Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, as amended, and Act No. 140/1961 Coll., Criminal Law, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, House press 408, second reading, however, I have stated here that this press should be mentioned by the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is excused. [[Trade law]] And since I don't have any information about anyone being authorized to represent, I believe that we cannot discuss this press at this stage, and if there is no objection, we would move on to the press next. And that's the press, virtually. Item No
