ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u1	71. Government bill amending Act No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended /departmental press 597/ - first reading Minister, before I give you my word, I will ask Mr Jiří Petr to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I did not receive a positive proposal, as I said, from any of the club presidents, to interrupt the negotiations. So, in that case, since Minister Herman has tabled a valid resolution by the Government of the Czech Republic on his commission to present a proposal for Minister Šlechtová, I have no choice but to give him the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u2	Mr President, colleagues, the Government of the Czech Republic, by its resolution of 20 August 2015, approved the draft law amending Law No 646. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended, the Act of Authorization, and at the same time entrusted me to justify this government proposal in the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In 1992, a significant systemic intervention was made in the conditions for the pursuit of the professions of persons active in construction, such as designers and construction managers, who were transferred from the authorization by the authorities of the state administration under the previously valid construction law and its implementing decree for the authorisation carried out by the professional self-government under the new Act No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction. The new authorization law established professional chambers - the Czech Chamber of Architects and the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians active in construction. At the same time, their powers and responsibilities have been set. Since its effectiveness, the authorisation law has undergone several amendments, especially in connection with the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union by issuing a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, a amendment to the construction law and so on. However, it has not yet been subject to an overall revision which would assess the provisions in terms of the application of the law in practice. In connection with the application of the law, problems can be observed for some provisions for their inaccuracies. In other cases, the law does not correspond to the change in the economic situation and the situation in the construction sector. The draft amendment to the Act of Authorization was prepared in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2015, due to the implementation of adjustments and clarification of certain provisions of the Act of Authorization presenting problems in application practice and the introduction of the Act of Authorization into compliance with Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business. The content of the amendment to the Act of Authorization is to clarify legislation, adapt the current situation on the market and to the changing needs of the member bases of both chambers and to settle the legal situation where the literal interpretation is broken down with the purpose and purpose of the regulation. The proposed amendment has no impact on state and public budgets, on local authorities or on the environment. The proposed changes affect natural and legal persons as business entities. I consider the effects on these bodies to be positive, as the amendment of the law will allow for a wider range of their activities in conjunction with the pursuit of the profession and a higher degree of legal certainty given by clarifying the existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u3	I thank the Minister of Culture Herman and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Petr to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill is, above all, to adapt and refine the provisions of the law presenting problems in application practice. Second, the introduction of Act No. 360/1992 Coll. into compliance with Act 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business. Suggested changes: First, refinement of the definition of authorization. Secondly, change in the amount of the authorization fee. Thirdly, the establishment of an obligation for authorised persons to pay their contributions properly and in good time. Further, the elimination of the duplicate duty of the Czech Chamber of Architects and the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians in the care of documents. Furthermore, the modification of the activity of authorized persons, the specification of the activity of authorized architect, the addition of a separate provision on personal liability for the pursuit of the profession of authorized persons engaged in activities in a public commercial company. In addition, the formulation of the work of the authorized architect in the framework of the development of the planning documentation. Further, the modification of the activity of an authorized technology for the field of ground construction. Further, the extension of the Czech Chamber of Architects and Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians to set the terms of their internal regulations, with options for elections at the general meeting or the elections of distance. Last but not least, the harmonisation of the terminology of the amendment to the Act of Authorization with the terminology of the Civil Code. Changes in the amount of authorization fees, payment of member contributions, mode of activity and performance of activities in a publicly owned company are dealt with in this proposal variant. The petitioner states that the draft amendment does not affect the state budget or other public budgets, it does not constitute a negative impact on business entities and consumers. It is compatible with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it is compatible with legislation, case law and general legal principles of the European Union, it is not contrary to the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound and does not have a direct impact on the protection of privacy and personal data, it does not pose a risk of corruption. I would also like to point out that already in the stage of preparation of the amendment in the second half of 2014, the meeting of the Chamber of Geodes and Cartographers on the inclusion of the formation of the Chamber of Zeměřice in the text of the amendment took place at the Ministry for Regional Development. These negotiations were not successful from the point of view of the Chamber of Geodes and Cartographers, and the Ministry of Agriculture applied in the framework of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, in which the Czech Institute is a surveyor and cadastral, the requirement to extend the amendment and the formation of the Agricultural Chamber. The Ministry of Regional Development rejected this request. The formation of the Agricultural Chamber is further agreed by the military forces, for which surveyors and cartographers also work. [[18.30 hours]] I also note that the Czech Chamber of Architects and the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians consider it appropriate to include in the law the issue of fees and to renew the authorisation to issue price lists and honorary orders similar to what was done before 2008. I therefore believe that, in the context of the 597 press debate in the committees, there will also have to be a debate on this issue. On the basis of the above, I can recommend that you, as rapporteur, refer the draft amendment to the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is declared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u6	Thank you for the floor. We don't consider it a technical amendment and a simple text. I think the debate will be quite long, difficult. We're ready for a constructive debate. But since the Minister is excused at this point, I do not know when he will be present, so I suggest that we interrupt the Chamber of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-014-071.u7	Okay, thank you. I will allow this proposal to be voted on without debate, in the vote number 364, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 364 from 134 Members present, for 92, against no one. The motion was accepted. In that case, I am interrupting not only item 71, but I also interrupt the House of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning with the fact that there is no fixed point at 9 a.m. yet. In the afternoon there are written interpelations and at 11 o'clock the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies begins.
