ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-010-047.u1	47. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the creation of laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties (Law on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties) /German press 647/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will again be introduced by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-010-047.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and the drafting of legislation published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. This proposal is submitted following the present draft law on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. Its aim is to amend certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, i.e. by implementing legislative changes aimed at the overall electronicisation of the creation and declaration of law and at establishing the application of the full text of legislation in the creation and publication of legislation. The proposed legislation brings in particular the necessary amendments to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and the Act on the Constitutional Court. The proposed law also makes terminology changes in a number of laws in connection with the unification of the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Treaties into one Collection of Laws and International Treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-010-047.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-010-047.u4	Thank you again for the floor. Dear colleagues, the House's press is now adapting the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, introducing an electronic system of Collections of Laws and International Treaties and, in general, regulating the creation of legislation. It can be welcomed that the proposal tries to go with the time and uses modern possibilities of electronic systems and databases. The collection of laws is also to be newly binding in electronic form, it will also be of great importance for the addressees of legal standards to have mandatory texts of the whole amended regulation in the Collection of Laws, which will certainly contribute to greater clarity of the whole legal system. The proposal establishes an electronic system of Collections of Laws and International Treaties as an information system of public administration. Through this system, the Collection of Laws and International Treaties will be implemented, which will be accessible in a way that allows remote access. The system is also intended to serve as a database with a valid version of the legislation. A wider part of this system should also be an overview of the related documents produced in the preparation of the draft legislation, including its justification, which means the course of the legislative process from the preparation of the legislation to practically its publication in the Collection of Laws will be possible to monitor electronically. At the same time, I would mention some of the issues relating to accompanying legislation. This therefore concerns, for example, the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, because it contains comprehensive requirements for an explanatory memorandum on the draft legislation. This leads to a substantial extension of the requirements of the explanatory memorandum. It can therefore be reasonably feared that the proposed scope of the explanatory memorandum will practically complicate, or even prevent, the legislative initiative, in particular, by non-governmental bodies, or that the explanatory memorandum will only formally comply with the prescribed requirements, but it will not be a qualified and relevant analysis. None of these options are acceptable. The adequate fulfilment of the proposed requirements requires a large team and information, which in fact only has a government apparatus, not individual Members, who, of course, can submit laws within the meaning of the Constitution. However, they too have a legislative initiative and cannot be effectively restricted by the extensive formal requirements for the explanatory memorandum. When I say this in a nutshell, it is really impossible to ask members of the opposition or members of the government coalition to create the so-called RIA, which means the impact on individual areas on different international treaties, gender equality, the environment, the business environment. At this point, the RIA government contains nine items that are being developed for legislation. I will mention here that a seminar has recently been held on the floor of the subcommittee on Constitutional and parliamentary procedures, and on this issue there is an agreement between Members of both the opposition and the government coalition that this proposal should be adapted at second reading and that the existing state of affairs should be maintained in order to justify the bill, which not only Members but also regions and so on. This means that there will be a need to change the proposal on this matter. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior have promised synergies in the modification of this part of the laws. So the extensive RIA, as we know it from government proposals, should not be required of parliamentary bills. I'll also mention the cost of the system that's calculated here. Of course, the data isn't completely detailed here. In the context of calculating the benefits, the petitioner states that there will be benefits estimated at 359 million per year over the next ten years, without any specific explanation. It should also be noted that the costs of building the required information system will not be small. According to the petitioner, they will reach CZK 527 million plus the costs of operating and restoring the system, which will amount to CZK 389 million in ten years. According to the petitioner's estimates, the planned system will therefore cost almost a billion crowns, but a large part is to be financed from the European Union's operational programmes. Even these costs are not sufficiently explained or supported. The savings of both private and public bodies are therefore estimated. [[19.40 hours]] So I would point out above all the unclear impacts on public and private budgets. Nevertheless, I think that this proposal is systemic and it is correct and that we should move it forward to second reading and, of course, discuss the details in committee. I have already mentioned some of the necessary amendments to the accompanying legislation in particular in the light of the Rules of Procedure Act, which I think we will discuss on the basis of the constitutional committee and propose amendments to this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-010-047.u5	Thank you. I am now opening up a merged debate.
