ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u1	4. Draft Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and Procedure for They (the House Press 555/7/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. The resolution was delivered as press 555/8. Welcome to Senator Martin the Tesařík. I ask that the Minister of the Interior speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the Senate has adopted amendments to the draft law by releasing the provisions governing decisions on non-property damages in the infringement proceedings, in particular by stating that the proposed amendment would cause a significant administrative burden for the administrative authorities to decide on the claims for depreciating non-property damage in the infringement proceedings. To this end, I consider it appropriate to add that the regulation of non-property decisions in the infringement proceedings was the subject of an amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, in which the proposal was adopted. The final decision is, of course, in the hands of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, or the opinion of the Senate amendment, is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur of Mr Pleticha's guarantee committee if he wishes to comment on the Senate's proposals. If that is the case, you have the floor, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u4	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, the Chamber of Deputies has passed a bill which we had in press 555, the Senate as press 280. As the petitioner has already said, the Senate has returned this press to the House with amendments which, in turn, return the bill to its original form, as the petitioner has put it in matters relating to non-property proceedings. We have dealt with this issue quite extensively at the Constitutional Legal Committee. That is why we recommended the adoption of this amendment there. However, I dare say for myself that this is not the essential thing with which the law would stand and fall. So it will now be up to us to decide which version we choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u5	Thank you, Mr rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I'll ask the senator if he's interested in speaking. He pretends he does. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, ministers, allow me to greet you, wish you a good afternoon and briefly justify the Senate resolution adopted by the Senate at its 25th meeting on 15 June. He adopted this amendment, which basically includes the removal of the waiver of non-property damage from the powers of the administrative authorities in deciding on offences in all the provisions of the draft new law on liability for and proceedings concerning offences. I would like to justify this proposal for five reasons. Therefore, let me first of all state that the non-material injury hearing was not the subject of a commentary procedure and was therefore not the subject of an expert discussion. The enlargement took place in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 17 March. The second reason with which the Senate identified itself in the amendment is that this is a very serious intervention in the current practice of criminal proceedings, which is capable of significantly disrupting the activities of the administrative authorities. It will certainly be a source of an increase in administrative and financial complexity, but it is not envisaged. This also means an increase in the requirements for the expertise of administrative staff, in parentheses I would like to remind myself that these are administrative bodies of municipalities and regions, as well as the expertise with which these employees have not really had any experience yet. [[14.40 hours]] The third reason is that such extensive changes will be accompanied by a relatively separate area of compensation, which has never been provided by the public administration and which is demanding even in the decision-making process of the courts. Experience from practice shows that it will often be used because of free access. The fourth reason is then - the assessment and decision-making of non-property damage should continue to belong to the courts. This is significantly outside the scope of the decision on guilt and punishment. It cannot therefore be subordinated to the adhesion procedure already because it will significantly burden the administrative authorities and complicate the proceedings. In its essence, it will threaten its own purpose in the proceedings, which means deciding on guilt and punishment and, above all, its effectiveness. The fifth and last reason with which the Senate has identified itself, and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies, too, is the argument that it is already contained in criminal proceedings or in the current criminal law, but it cannot be accepted. This decision cannot even be combined within the administration with a price list. Such an approach is rejected by the courts. It is always, according to the case law, a complex assessment of the specific circumstances of the case and the judicial discretion of the court. All of this should, according to the new regulation, be implemented by the administrative authority together with the decision on the case within extremely short time limits for the decision to be taken, and this is not possible in our view. Ladies and gentlemen, there are so many five reasons for which the Senate has identified itself. And I would really like to ask you to take these reasons into account, and to approve the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and Procedure, as amended by the Senate amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u7	Thank you, Senator. I'll ask if anyone's checking in. Yes, Mr. Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the release of non-property damage is a matter that we discussed in the Constitutional Committee in the Chamber of Deputies with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, when it was also justified in the original material that the administrative authorities do not have the capacity, education or other things to do, and that it should not be, and that the person who incurs non-property damage should be brought to justice. Finally, the Constitutional Committee adopted this amendment. And it is not entirely true that it came to this House press only when this law, the House press 555, was discussed, but even when the previous criminal law, which was in the past or a short time ago, has not yet come into effect, and it has only been reflected in this law. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] During negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior during the discussion of this law, we also discussed this with the administrative authorities and they said that it was a burden for them, but that they were able to carry out this activity eventually. The reason why administrative authorities should also deal with non-property damage is certainly the unification of what matters to the administrative authority. Let me give you a specific example. If someone's property damage is caused by theft or damage of a foreign property up to CZK 5,000, then the administrative authority decides on compensation and it is part of the proceedings. He informs such a victim and works with such a victim and becomes a party to the proceedings. If, in the course of an offence or in the event of non-property damage, for example, a tooth is merely knocked out, such a person is not a party to the proceedings, the administrative authorities do not inform him and his damages refer to the proceedings before the court. The Constitutional Committee has come to the conclusion that the victim is the one causing the damage. And it doesn't matter whether the damage is material or intangible. There's damage. And if this law or this House press 555, which we are discussing, takes matters from criminal law in many cases, it should also be inspired by criminal law, because it is part of the legal standards that we are trying to ensure that they have some compatibility with us. We have things like that in this press, like legal aid by a foreigner. We don't have an international treaty on criminal matters in criminal proceedings today, but it's just in case someday in the future. This is the one thing that can happen to any of us, that he will suffer non-property damage, but then he will not become a party to the proceedings and will have to be interested in how to obtain the compensation that was caused to him by the wrongdoer. I ask you to think about it again and to support the version that emerged from the proceedings of the Constitutional Legal Committee of our Chamber of Deputies, because it aligns relations between the two forms of damage, whether property or property, if you want material, injury. For the KSČM MEP's club, I say that we support the version that was created here in the Chamber of Deputies. And, as the Minister of the Interior mentioned, his position is neutral, that is, the administrative authorities are able to deal with both versions and it will benefit Czech law, even if we may add some work to the administrative authorities. But we want the administrative authorities to have good quality in such a way as to be able to assess misdemeanors in both property and property damage. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I do not see anyone else in the debate; I am done with the debate. I shall ask the appellant, or the rapporteur, for the final words. It's not like that. We will take the vote. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards, because I've checked everyone out of the diaper upon request. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on liability for and proceedings relating to offences under the House press 555/7, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 555/8." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 174, registered at 160, for 79, against 18. This proposal has not been adopted. But there is obviously an interest in controlling the vote. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u10	Thank you. I just checked the vote. I voted in favour, and I have a cross on high. I dare to question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u11	Yes. This is an objection to the record of the vote that we will decide on. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with Mr Sklenák's objection. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 175, registered 164, for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote, i.e. the vote on the Senate version of this law. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 176, registered 166, for 89, against 20. This proposal was adopted. [[14.50 hours]] I do not see any interest in controlling the vote, in which case I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank the Minister and the Senator. If there's anything else the senator wants to tell us, I'll give him some space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u12	I would like to thank you for supporting this law for the Senate. Thank you very much and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-002-004.u13	Thank you, Senator. Opening point
