ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u1	62. Government bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the treatment of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, as amended, and Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended /house print 686/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed proposal will also be presented in this case by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank you once again for voting on the last item. So now briefly to the government bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the management of genetically modified organisms and genetic products. The subject matter of the amendment to the Act is that the proposed amendment to the Act on the Management of Genetically Modified Organisms and Genetic Products, hereinafter referred to as the Act, deals mainly with the following topics: the use of genetically modified organisms, hereinafter referred to as GMOs, for laboratory purposes and the cultivation of GMOs, or the possibility to restrict or prohibit such cultivation. The reason for submitting an amendment to the law and its objectives are... areas of laboratory use of GMOs. Since its adoption in January 2004, the GMO Law has been amended in a comprehensive manner only once, in 2005, in connection with the adoption of several directly applicable European Union rules on GMO management. Since then, however, GMO has grown significantly in many fields of science, such as medical research, diagnostic and clinical fields of medicine and industry, such as the pharmaceutical or food industry. In the Czech Republic, 100 entities are already authorized to dispose of GMOs and new workplaces are still increasing. It is desirable to adapt the legislation on the use of GMOs for laboratory purposes to the progress of biotechnology and the needs of practice so that further research and development is not put in place unnecessary administrative barriers that can also have a negative effect on the international competitiveness of the Czech Republic. To this end, it is proposed to remove the obligations associated with the closed handling of GMOs first, which is the lowest risk category that goes beyond the relevant Directive of the European Union. In particular, the obligation to submit new notifications for each new GMO to be handled in an already notified existing restricted area and to process the emergency plan shall be waived. In the field of GMO cultivation, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was published in the Official Journal of the European Union in March 2015, which gave Member States of the European Union the opportunity to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in their territory. The possibility of such restriction or prohibition applies both to GMOs that have already been authorised at EU level for cultivation and to those GMOs that are only in the authorisation process. In order for the Czech Republic to be able to use the possibility of restricting or prohibiting GMO cultivation in its territory in case of interest, the provisions governing the procedure governing the competent authorities of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Agriculture, can also be added to the GMO management law during the authorisation process to exclude the territory of the Czech Republic or its defined part from the cultivation of a particular GMO, while at the same time giving the Government the power to restrict or prohibit in the territory of the Czech Republic or its defined parts the cultivation of those GMOs which have already been authorised at EU level. In order to implement the transposition of the above directive, a new obligation to comply with the growing of GMO varieties established distance from the national border of the Czech Republic is added to the Agriculture Act in order to avoid possible contamination of the territory of neighbouring GMO states, states which have not allowed this cultivation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Michal Kučera. [[He's not present.]] The Member is excused, so we will have to appoint an alternate rapporteur. Given the fact that we are at first reading, I am going to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading, because I assume that the rapporteur will take up the press at further readings, but for this moment we will change the rapporteur and that is Robert Böhnisch. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby to let them know that the vote is in. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of changing the rapporteur for first reading, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 81. 155 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 123, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will be very brief because the Minister has introduced the esteemed House to the bill very closely. Let me just remind you that in this case it is actually to a large extent certain administrative adjustments, simplification of administration in the case of the treatment of genetically modified organisms in the laboratory environment, and in the second part of the law it is the possibility of our authorities to prohibit GMO cultivation in the Czech Republic or in part of the territory of the Czech Republic. I would like to request the release of the application for further reading to the Committee on the Environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. I'm making one point of fact... Mr Kudela does not make a factual comment. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, I will end the general debate and ask the rapporteur and the appellant if you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the Committee on the Environment to be discussed as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 82. 158 Members and Members registered, for proposal 140, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u6	Thank you for the floor. I propose an agricultural committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-013-062.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a motion on the commandment of the next committee. I don't see anyone. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. In that case, we will vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal being submitted to the agricultural committee to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 83; 158 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 138, against 4. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as another committee. Since no further proposals have been made, I am ending the first reading of this law. Before we go any further, I'll read the two note cards that came to me. From 17.30 pm to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská apologizes and from 17.30 to 18.00 apologises for working reasons, Mrs Balaštíková. [[17.40 hours]] I'm gonna open up another point in today's meeting, and that's it.
