ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u1	143. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on higher education institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws (the Higher Education Act), as amended, and some other laws (the German press 464/ - third reading) I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Mihola take the position of the rapporteur's sewer. On 25 November, he was represented by Mrs Berdychová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 464/8, delivered on 27 November 2015. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 464/11. I will ask the crowds that are forming at the government bench to be dissolved so that we can continue the negotiations. Mr Zavadil, I am sorry, I must appoint you, you are in the way of the rapporteur. So, Counselor, at this point, are you interested in speaking? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, the Government approved the above-mentioned Government Bill on 30 March. First and second reading took place. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Security were held. A motion for a resolution with amendments has been adopted. Most of these amendments are supported by the Ministry of Education. The most significant amendments are the issue of the appointment of professors. In all cases, the Ministry of Education gives notice of opposition to the amendments. Another important issue is the change in faculty rights. I'm warning you, we've already got a summary--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u3	Madam Secretary, I am very sorry, please stop your speech at this moment. We will wait until the House has really calmed down so that you do not have to scream at my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u4	- a comprehensive amendment representing points A8 and A9 sufficiently compensates for the costs of debates in committees against the original government proposal for individual rights of faculties and universities. Furthermore, other amendments to the Svoboda and Karamazov amendments have been read on this issue. In the general amendment, it is therefore proposed to divide the competence of faculties into those always exercised by faculty bodies and therefore it is not possible to limit them by the statute or other internal regulation of the school. This is mainly about economic competence. The second group includes those powers which the faculties will exercise to the extent provided for by the statute of the public school, which means that each public school status will be able to democratically balance the powers of the rectors and deans, or if you want the faculties and universities. For this reason, I am calling on the support of the general amendment by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u5	Thank you. I am now opening up a debate to which I have registered four applications so far. With the first to the microphone of Mr Karamazov. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, several governments and several ministers of education have tried to amend the law. Failed. There is a question as to why all these attempts to change the functioning of our universities have failed. Were they even necessary? Does our higher education need a revolution? The answer, at least mine, is no. Higher education needs stability in particular. Not that development does not bring about a need for change, of course, but it must also be prudent not to damage a functioning system. And our higher education still works quite well. There's still more to mess up. Unfortunately, that is what the proposed amendment is trying to do in some of the provisions. [[9.30 hours]] In the previous sentence, I used the claim that colleges work quite well. The word quite means that something can be improved after all. Yes, several fundamental changes have been made in the past, which have been for worse and have had to be corrected. Most of these changes could be attributed to excessive efforts to implement everything that comes from the European Union into our education. The term Euro-Hourism has been used for this, and I think it accurately describes the substance and, unfortunately, it is not just about education. But we also made some problems ourselves. I would expect that the submitted amendment will focus on the real problems of our higher education and will try to eliminate them. For example, very soon after joining the EU, we began to hear from the Brussels comrades that our population is undereducated, that the ratio of educated people is low and such nonsense. They have compared incomparable or directly lied, as they have done in Brussels so far and are becoming more and more perfect. As a result, new and new universities and universities began to emerge as mushrooms after the rain, so today we have 26 public and over 80 private ones on our small country. There is no need to convince ourselves of the pressure to maintain quality. The fact that everyone who knows how to sign is a sad truth that we all know. Easy access to graduation is, by the way, the first part of an unhappy story. - Is the proposed amendment dealing with the problem of the excessive number of schools in the Czech Republic? No. The previous problem is related to the way public universities are financed, i.e. to the number of students. Of course, such a system does not support the selection of only those candidates who are eligible for study but contributes to the tendency to maximize the number of students, thus maximizing funds from the state regardless of quality. - Is the proposed amendment concerned with the funding of universities? No. We often hear about the need to support technical education, and it is true that we should support technical fields, because there is no doubt about the need and lack of technically educated graduates and the enormous interest of employers in them. - Is the proposed amendment addressing support for technical education? No. Is the amendment dealing with how to make companies more interested in collaborating with universities? No. At this point, however, it is necessary to honestly appreciate the effort and also the courage of the Minister for the introduction of compulsory mathematics graduations. This is, of course, another law, but it is certainly the right step to promote technical education in universities. The university environment is characterized by the transfer of knowledge to students by teachers who are often also scientists. Support for science, including funding and evaluation of science, must therefore be an important part of the rules governing universities. Science is now being evaluated by a rather misguided system of points allocated for various types of publications, which are known as coffee-meals. It stands out, in particular, that the rules in force in one year will change radically in the following years and, moreover, the results of the previous years will be recalculated according to the new rules. So change the rules during the game, increased to at least four. Scientific work often changes instead of moving the boundaries of knowledge into a quest for points that mean money. It is often written only for publications and therefore for points and for money. But such wannabe scientific publications are only worth the paper described. Does the proposed amendment deal with the support of science in universities? No. It wasn't so long ago that all universities were dominated by so-called. long study programmes. We all remember that college was usually for five years, medicine for six, several schools for four years. Then the European Union came up with the Bologna Process, and we all violently turned the system into a majority of three years of bachelor's studies and two years of follow-up master's studies for decades. It may be possible in humanities, but for technical disciplines this system is problematic, rather senseless. And it is an experience not only from us but also from the developed world, where the system of bachelors and magists is established. It's not without interest that one of the few exceptions stayed with us - it's medicine. Even the craziest supporters of Bachelor's studies and the Bolognese trial would probably not be operated on by a mere bachelor. Of course, the fact that in technology it is similar, often more demanding and responsible, even though each comparison is a little limping is silent. Is the submitted amendment dealing with the optimization of study programs? No. These are just some questions that I think the amendment should address, but it does not address. Instead, it deals mostly with technical details or such a marginal topic as removing titles or who will be the professor's title to decorate the proposed academics. It is certainly a very media-thankful topic, but the fact is that the functioning of universities has absolutely zero impact on whether the professors will be appointed president or the diploma proposed by the candidate will be given by a carrier pigeon. Yet there are two changes in the amendment that will affect universities. These are institutional accreditations and the destruction of faculty rights. In the case of institutional accreditations, the impact should be positive, although implementation is somewhat cumbersome in the amendment. Some improvements are already contained in a relatively large number of amendments concerning institutional accreditation, and some are likely to come in future amendments. However, in the event of the destruction of faculty rights, the impact on universities could be catastrophic. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address this issue for a moment, because at this point, the proposed amendment could do really much damage. I believe that Section 24 entitled Faculty Rights is the key point of the whole amendment. Everything else is either irrelevant or could take some time to tune in. The loss of all faculty rights, and thus their status and function, would indeed be a fundamental change, and even though it would touch on the very foundations of universities operating for decades, you will find nothing in the explanatory report submitted by the amendments on this change. Not a word of explanation, no reasons, let alone strong, were found, nor could they be found to destroy the years of a proven system. It must be clear to the dumbest fool that there must be powers where responsibility is to be. This is simply the existing content referred to in Section 24 entitled Faculty Rights. This simple rule applies at all levels of governance and certainly also applies to the management of universities. If the faculties are to be responsible for the education of students, for the scientific research activities of their academic staff, for the results of the projects covered, they must be equipped with appropriate powers. The faculty should have the right to implement study programmes, determine the internal structure and orientation of creative activities and, of course, to dispose of the funds entrusted and also to manage employment relations. If the faculty earns something by its activities, it should also remain in the faculty's own activities. It's hard to find arguments against these principles, we all understand that. So he prefers not to write anything in the explanatory report about the actual liquidation of faculties and lobbies and hopes that this outrageous nonsense will pass. This is the intention of the Czech Rectors' Conference, nice and quiet implementation of the power coup in universities. Of course, it's finally like every coup, only power and money. In fact, a regular college located mostly in a regional city is treated with roughly the same funds as the budget of this regional city, say about 1.5 billion. CZK, and that is a very tempting challenge for the Rectors to make decisions about such means. And to decide for himself, because the Rector has no truly independent democratic body, no advice, no council. Now it is the existence of faculties and their relative independence that forms a sufficient regulatory mechanism, and that is correct, because academic life, teaching and science take place at faculties, not at rectorates. Ladies and gentlemen, paragraph 24 concerns several amendments, which I will try to comment briefly. If you have agreed to what I have said about faculty rights, please support my amendment under the designation C5, which gives the faculty the necessary rights back. If you prefer a slight compromise that will not damage the faculty too much, you can vote in favour of the amendment by Mr Svoboda with the designation K1. However, I must point out that this proposal no longer contains the rule "what the faculty earns belongs to the faculty" and, on the contrary, it contains extraordinary absurdity in the form of determining the direction of the faculty's creative activity not by the faculty itself, but by the rector. Thus, if the rector is needed by a theologian, he can determine the direction of scientific activity e.g. Faculty of Science. These oddities remained in the amendment from the original amendment to seek an acceptable compromise. However, this is still a very reasonable amendment. [[9.40 hours]] Another pair of amendments A8 and A9 from the Ministry's workshop is also compromise, because they are still better than the original amendment to the faculties taking all rights, but this compromise is no longer acceptable to me. Although it is correct to return control of the budget to faculties, such a compromise would not work without controlling employment relations. I merely remind you that personnel costs resulting from employment relations can amount to 60,70 per cent of the budget. Without their control, such an amendment would really make no sense. [[Noise in the hall.]] My esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of my performance, I was critical of what the submitted amendment was dealing with or rather not. It should be recalled, however, that the amendment to the current minister remained after her predecessor. I have to appreciate her approach and her efforts to improve the not-so-good original text of the novel. This is evidenced by constructive negotiations, a ministerial amendment and a number of accepted amendments, whether by my colleagues or by other colleagues. However, the best option is not to support the law. And nothing's gonna happen. Institutional accreditations would be completed, minor changes would certainly wait and faculties would remain all rights. I don't suppose that's what happened. For being a minister with the support of the coalition government, which is certainly an extremely tempting amendment to the higher law after a number of predecessors who have broken their teeth on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to consider all my arguments, and I believe that you will make the right decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And, please, to the microphone with Mr. Plzák's factual remark. A properly registered Mr. profesor. Zlatuška will be prepared for the time being. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be annoying about this, but I think that the vast majority of what has been put forward here does not belong in the third reading, except in relation to the amendments. But I really have a point of fact, namely the original address of the Minister, specifically the part concerning the President's powers to appoint professors. I didn't hear the noise. The Minister said he supports the amendment, and I don't know which one. Because there's two of them. One is from my colleague Sedi and the other from my colleague Kasal. As you know, the President doesn't really want that authority. This is a chronically well-known fact. He is aware that this authority dates back to the time of the first Republic, when we had a few universities, several clinics of health care and those professors were appointed within a year maybe by ten. Now it's become a bit more massive, we have a lot of universities. And this wish of the President to get rid of this power is more likely to be met by the amendment made by fellow Sed, who says - I will find it here in particular - that the professor for a particular field will be appointed by the minister who was proposed to appoint the professor. That means he's going to appoint a minister. In his amendment, my colleague, Kasal, says that if the President does not act within 60 days and does not name him, he is automatically appointed. Knowing our President, one simple thing can happen. The President will simply not act with anyone within 60 days, and those people will be automatically appointed, and he will very elegantly get rid of that authority. So just think, colleagues, when we vote on this, if this risk doesn't carry this with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u9	Thank you for keeping the time limit and, please, to Mr Zlatuška's microphone, Mr Rais will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the first reading was made, I mentioned in an extensive way what I consider to be problematic in this amendment, and I would like to follow up on what Mr Karamazov said here on the part of the specific amendments relating to the position of the faculties. It is essential that universities are within institutions that have natural diversity, and that activity traditionally stands on faculties. Attempting centralization can damage schools and lead to a different goal than the aim of the amendment as a whole in terms of accreditation system, in terms of emphasis on quality. It can be said that this introduced change in organisational mechanisms does not actually have a basis in terms of the basic direction of the amendment as such, aimed at quality, aimed at accreditation. Mr Karamazov here said an important thing I would like to underline. The change in faculty powers is not justified in any government amendment. The explanatory memorandum contains nothing to say in which the current state needs to change the structure of faculty versus university powers, i.e. personalized deans versus rectors, although it is known that this matter has been the subject of very long and extensive debates in the preparation of the text. The fact that this justification is not there gives good reason to say that things are not reflected there either professionally or things the principle of how universities should operate, but that it was a clash of interest groups in the background. And in this, I would also agree with how Mr Karamazov described the situation before me. I would like to make a comment on the absurdity of the development of how power is centralized in universities. When Topolánkův's government joined the program. The reform of tertiary education and came up with a change in universities, so the centralization of decision-making in the hands of one person in schools was one of the central points that the proposal contained. It seems to me to some extent paradoxical that we are facing the problem that the government with the Social Democratic Minister is presenting a proposal against which more reasonable alternatives come from those former government parties that were behind the original reform, i.e. the TOP 09, respectively. from ODS. This seems sad from a political point of view. However, nothing changed from the original state to the fact that the change was not justified. Topolánkův's reform came with a white book and at least formally contained a pharplan of how universities would be rolled. In this proposal, the compromise in quotes simply comes from the outside as some random result, which is not characterized by anything other than the force conditions of the influence groups behind it. I would like to thank from this point of view, as I have been able to see the negotiations on our committee, as well as the opposition for a constructive approach. And as a reasonable compromise, it seems to me that Mr Svoboda T1's proposal is retreating on economic issues and leaving an important part of the staffing powers there. After all, higher education institutions, which are formed by the academic community, are formed mainly by the choir of teachers, respectively. a combination of teachers and students on them. That's what makes them college. From this point of view, the compromise seems worse than the current situation, but if the general mood is that things need to be changed, it is a proposal that deserves support, and I would like to recommend it to you. I would recommend it to you despite the fact that you received opposite opinions from the Council of Higher Education or from the Czech Rectors' Conference. [[9.50 hours]] In the opinion of the Council of Higher Education Institutions - which you have all come to, or I assume that this has been addressed to all, from the President of the Council of Higher Education Schools to Fischer, even twice, once in the morning, once after noon - I would have stopped at this point in terms of the second point, which I see as very important, and that is the amendment that I tabled to restrict so-called. flying professors. In other words, an adjustment to how employment conditions are regulated in the light of the general provisions of Section 304 of the Labour Code, which contains the general principle that, at the time a worker is to have a gainful activity which is identical to the subject of his employer's activity, he must apply for prior written authorisation from that employer. The Labour Code in the general provisions contains an exception to this, where it says that restrictions on gainful activity on the general level do not apply to the pursuit of scientific, pedagogical, publicist, literary and artistic activities. The reason is simple. It is a public interest to spread knowledge, spread knowledge, spread cultural goods. From here, this general authorization. However, it is clear that the general authorisation is not in order when we are talking about institutions specifically engaged in these activities as their basic activities and entering into competitive relations with others. It does not apply to the performance of scientific and pedagogical. That's how the exception started. I'd stop by the science department. Consider that we would take some large foreign company that comes to the Czech Republic and not only has its department of production and production, but also has a research and development department where scientists work or applied scientists. Say, for example, Siemens could serve as an example or something like that. And now let's imagine that an employed scientist or applied scientist would come up with the idea that, given that the Labour Code contains a general exception that they do not have to apply for a work permit for competition, because they carry out scientific activities, so they would negotiate a part-time with Siemens's direct competition. You would all certainly consider this to be something that is out of the question and that is absurd. Surely you would not argue with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms that such a restriction on workers is not possible. After all, many companies normally do not act in competition as a condition of employment. Yet, at a time when it is said that a similar restriction should be introduced for a specific group of positions in universities, which are academic workers, a huge wave of resistance, characterized by what was sent to all of you by the President of the College Council, Jakub Fischer, will suddenly begin to produce background materials that are very dubious levels. I would point out that Jakub Fischer, when he appealed to you that the proposal was not correct, added some kind of legal analysis in quotation marks, which in six points called. He's analyzing the proposal. I suggest you take a closer look at the material from the point of view that it's unsigned material. The paper doesn't have a head. [[He's showing the paper.]] It's not signed by anyone. When the press asked me about it, they often even assumed that the author of this was the one who sent it to them. Yesterday I got a call from a journalist who automatically judged that the author of the text was the Rector of the Salač Police Academy because he added it to his email. When I told her, "Mrs. Editor, look at this, is it really signed?" That's how she found out that it wasn't signed and that it's a material argument that's very strange. No wonder this is not signed, because in the first paragraph, there is talk of the unacceptable negotiation of the prohibition on the conduct of certain activities. The unacceptable is clearly refuted by the wording of Section 304 of the Labour Code. All professions, with the exception of those listed, have this restriction. It is further argued that it is unclear what happens when the Rector is inactive or how the restriction will be handled. I took a look at this here in a work-law textbook that's being used at my university. [[He's showing a book called Labor Law.]] The authors of Milan Galvas and the collective. In this case, you will find a clear passage on page 272, which clearly states: "At first glance, it seems that these obligations and restrictions are without sanctions in the Labour Code, and we have stated above that this restriction cannot be understood absolutely and cannot be imposed on employees to avoid any other gainful activity. That's right. However, the obligation to comply with restrictions on other gainful activities in the subject matter of the employer's activity is an obligation to constitute the content of employment discipline in a given employment relationship. Therefore, if an employee does not respect such an obligation, he or she is in breach of labour discipline and, according to the intensity of the breach, may be sanctioned in the employment relationship. The sanctions therefore do not lie, nor can they consist of sanctions outside the limits of employment. This would be an intervention in the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. It lies in the punishment within the service itself. In particular, termination of employment, employer's testimony for serious infringements of employment discipline, and, where appropriate, immediate termination of employment by the employer for a particularly gross breach of employment discipline, would be a penalty.' Thus, this is a context in which it could be argued that certain types of treatment of such restrictions would be a restriction to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, but not the restriction itself, as I propose in Amendment G1 plus G3. You have also been delivered from the President of the Council of Higher Education, and I apologize for having to respond in this way, but it came at the last moment, so I would like this matter not to be left unanswered because the President of the Council of Higher Education came forward with this in a press release which came out in the Czech Republic when he claimed that the amendment was tabled without being properly processed in the legislative process. It's not true. The fate of the amendment was not entirely simple, but it was presented correctly and was correctly processed. I submitted it before discussing the amendment on the school committee, which took place 15. 10. 2015, at the 17th meeting of the Education Committee. There it came to be that Minister Valachová presented the only dissenting position that was at issue, and this is available to the Steno Record. [[He's showing more paper.]] Of all the Committee's discussions, the committee's resolutions were made on the tape so that the minutes included transcripts of what was said on the committee. [[10.00 hours]] The Minister noted that there was a negative position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There was no other negative opinion, in particular there was no negative opinion of the Council of universities or any other representative of the Council of universities. This negative opinion was the reason why this amendment was not included in the committee's general proposal. However, for this I thank the Minister and the Ministry for the cooperation, the Ministry of Education supplemented the transitional provision, which was a problem in the original version. And that's what the G1 plus G3 design is for, not just the G1. The modified proposal, which met the parameters set by the state administration, was reloaded. At the time of second reading, I was on a foreign trip to the committee, so it was recorded by my colleague, Mrs Berdychová. It was reloaded. But it's not true that he didn't go through a proper hearing. It is not true that the representation of universities cannot comment on this. In particular, it is not true that the Council of universities could not comment on this, as President Fischer told you in an e-mail sent to all of you. I consider the question of limiting flying professors to be a central problem for our higher education. And if this isn't modified, then we're gonna keep playing at quality, we're gonna make big novels with accreditation processes, but that's the root of the problem, why we're not able to build compact institutions where loyal workers are working for that institution as it's quite common to the west of our borders, we're not gonna be able to do this. Therefore, I would ask you to support the G1 and G3 proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u11	Thank you and please now with Mr Seďa in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u12	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I would appeal to you because we are at third reading. Section 95 The third reading of the bill, paragraph 2: In the third reading, there is a debate in which it is possible to propose only the correction of legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments made, or possibly. submit a motion to repeat the second reading. Please, we're here at the third reading, so let's act according to the Rules of Procedure, which is the law for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u13	Ambassador, of course I know about this. Proposals have not been submitted, I am proceeding in the same way as my colleagues. So I'm not going to be different from their way of driving. So that's all I can say. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u14	Have a good day. In the context of what has been said here that the third reading is especially for technical comments, so what I had prepared, I would limit the talk. But to begin with, I would say that this is the material behind which there are hundreds and thousands of hours, whether the rectors in the Czech Rectors' Conference or faculty representatives in the Higher Education Council and, last but not least, Members and the head of the Ministry of Education. So it's a material that's been given a lot of attention, and here comes some sort of finale. I think it would be appropriate to begin by thanking all those involved in any way. In those hundreds of amendments, or hundreds of amendments, there are essentially two or three, which are conflicting today. The rest of it, I think we agreed essentially, and I think that's very valuable. And it should be material that should last for a while. Of course, I am aware of that, and I said it at second reading that a proper analysis was not carried out at the level of the OECD analysis in 2004, 2006. Of course, that's true, it's also a matter of money, and it's a matter of time. We blamed it on the predecessors of Minister Chládek, nothing the current management could do about this. Ambition in 2004, 2006 was huge that the whole amendment of the law would be made. Today, it basically shrinks especially to accreditation processes. And I'm surprised that none of the previous speakers paid this attention, because that's the crucial thing, the change in the accreditation. Here it is necessary to realise that both authority and responsibility is being shifted, for example, in the institutional accreditation to the level of the presidents and to the level of universities, and it is also necessary to give them an appropriate decision-making power. In the novel, and I suppose it will be a matter of further negotiations, I miss anchoring the career order of universities and especially working with young people under the age of 35 at universities, because if the prestige of teachers is not ensured, we do not actually have a great chance of changing quality. Even if, of course, we can change it formally with organizational modifications as we have heard here. It bothers me that the amendment does not address the possibility of developing scientific institutions, the VVI, that we have removed it from there. And there are a few things that are conflicting. Some of them were mentioned by a colleague named Zlatuška. With those flying professors, I think he's right in content, of course, that we can't change quality by having three-four-time teachers who won't even know where they teach, because they teach doctoral students for them. This is the truth. But the text of the amendment, I'm not a lawyer, but he talked about having unsigned texts. So I saw the signed texts from Professor Bělina, I think he'd be able to confirm that, which is a professor of labour law. And that's why I'm on the fence. There's just the danger of a constitutional complaint. So I think that the idea that Jirka Zlatuška has made here is, of course, the basic one is good, but she would like to work out a little more so that this speech of renowned lawyers isn't here to do this. That's one opinion of the conflict. Then there is the amendment of my colleague Tejc, who has not been spoken about yet and which is that the possibility of teaching foreign studies at Czech universities will be extended. So that Czech universities will give LLM, MPA, MBA and so on through lifelong learning. Of course, it's been happening here for 25 years, but always under guarantee of some quality assurance by foreign universities. We're gonna play it tonight. I'm just pointing out the fact. Otherwise, it's a development, too. Another amendment that is conflicting, so it is, of course, the relationship of the dean's jurisdiction, employment relations at faculties. I wouldn't have seen it the way my colleague Karamazov said it would, so I wouldn't have seen it as a coup d'état. It's got... I'm one of those consistent people who says that if anyone has any authority for the I.C.O., for... sorry, he has some responsibility for running the university, running the company, he should have powers too. And there's no way that a group of people in the faculty or just the Senate would blame or take those powers, and then two or three months when it's vacation, he basically left the rector alone because they don't sit down. [[10.10 hours]] And that's how we could continue with these things here. I agree with the opinion that has been expressed here about the election - not the election, but the designation, the appointment of professors by the President. If these unsuccessful candidates' disputes with the President of the Republic are not resolved, then I think we should wait or wait here for this solution, and then only the opinions that are logical here, of course, so take them. I am glad that the amendment has moved in a direction that has concerned autonomy or a certain autonomy of the Police Academy in a decisive direction, and I think that what is being tabled today is voteable. This is how individual amendments could be discussed. I would like to conclude by not delaying, I think it really is important, and I said this in the previous performance when it was second reading, pay attention to the quality of universities and funding and, in particular, concentrate on graduates of teaching faculties, so that they do not run away from us, and in this, I think the House should help the Ministry of Education significantly, because if quality teachers are in primary and secondary schools, then we can also get quality in universities. If the young ones are constantly overlooked, there will be a pretty big problem in the future. As far as funding is concerned, I should also say in hand, there should be an audit, there should be checks, because otherwise it's a black hole that, of course, the money is falling into, so it should be somehow balanced. I don't want to delay any further, we could talk a lot on this subject, but I think that even though it's all ready, we should probably get together for a while before our own vote and get some details straightened out with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u15	I thank you and now two factual points. First to Mr. Zlatuška's microphone, Mr. Pilný will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u16	Madam President, I would just like to make what I said clear here. The material you've been given as so-called. the legal opinion of profesor Fischer, the President of the Higher Education Council, was not signed, it was not on heading paper. If the students give me an essay like that, I'll give it back to them to at least add a name. If it really was Professor Bělina, then I would like to say that this claim about unconstitutionality, which is in manifest conflict with the text of Section 304 even in terms of what is written in those textbooks, shows to me that there are more problems in universities and that we may have more serious problems than just mathematics in the education system. But that's my point. Otherwise, about the Labor Law textbook, Milan Galvas and the collective, the passage I quoted, there is the author, Professor Zdeněk Gregorová, along with Dr. Zachariáš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u17	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Pilný's de facto opinion, Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are at third reading, so I will limit myself to a point of fact. The education system is conservative and it's good. On the other hand, trying to drive it monolithically, so we're going to go into every detail like this law, like a tanker that, unfortunately, turns very slowly and hits the glacier one day and may sink slower than the Titanic, but that's true. Speaking of academic freedoms, I think it's a matter for every college to adjust the relationship between the presidents and the deans. That's what organizational and negotiating rules are for, and if there are academic freedoms, we should just let them do it, not put them on the monolithic block that this law is. The same applies to so-called flying professors. This is simply the result, and if the reason is that private schools are of low quality, then why, for example, by means of the Service Act and other instruments, we drive people there who have to do time and have to get the paper and do it in the easiest way. This determines and determines the quality of universities. If we ban high-quality professors, the education will continue to fall, and perhaps this is an attempt to liquidate schools. Then the curious amendments, which reduce the level of education, we have 14 bachelors into dozens, in a number of fields it is completely useless, and if we give universities the opportunity to recognize the so-called exams. Vocational secondary schools, so the quality certainly doesn't go down that way. This means, in my opinion, that law interferes in detail with things that it should not determine at all, and I think that university officials should simply defend themselves. Those are the real academic freedoms. Not to determine a monolithic block that will certainly not contribute to any change in the education system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u19	I thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Válková, also with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u20	Madam President, my dear colleagues, the factual point is limited both in terms of time and in substance. I just want to make a point here about what Professor Zlatuška said to you a moment ago through my esteemed and kind colleague. I absolutely disagree. I do not think that, as far as his amendment is concerned, whether the legal position is sent to us signed or not. It's always the content that matters. I can relate to this content as a lawyer, even to capacities such as Professor Bělina or Professor Gregorová here, I can have different opinions, but on these fundamental issues I doubt it very much, and I think that his proposal is indeed contrary to the principle of proportionality and violates what is in Article 4 (1). 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as it puts academic workers at a disadvantage. They would have to do in those areas where they have, say, their main activity, i.e. scientific, pedagogical, publishing and, of course, related performance of these activities in one, two or three schools, request consent, prior consent, even for a limited period of one year, the Rector of the relevant university. I think it is ripe for a constitutional complaint, which I am of course not capable of right now, and I cannot even outline in a factual note what it should look like, but we are so-called problem making because, legally speaking, this fundamental proposal has not been properly discussed with all of these processes by the institutions involved, including the College Council. So I find it at least unfair and unfair to come up with this proposal two months before final reading, third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u21	Thank you, and now with Mr Tejc in fact, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u22	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to refer to my esteemed colleague, Professor Rais, on my amendment. I would like to say that I am definitely in favour, just like everyone else, of increasing the quality of these follow-up programs. However, what my amendment contains is that if there was no change, for example. only graduates of foreign universities could study such programs as LLM, i.e. foreign ones. We are trying to enable the amendment to allow graduates of our public universities to complete these studies at our schools, i.e. We're trying to give them more options.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u23	Thank you and please, Mr Zlatuška, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u24	Madam President, to the point that it was presented two months before the third reading. It's not entirely correct either. I have put this forward on time in the light of all the formalities that are needed in the submission of the parliamentary proposals. As regards the way I worked with this proposal before, I have, of course, repeatedly been a member of the College Council and a member of the College Board for several years. It's a serious problem. It's a major problem for our universities. The fact that the university establishment is watching its side business and is not willing to behave the way universities behave abroad is sad. And this is not a disadvantage for workers. At a time when all professions have to apply for this from the Labour Code in Section 304, and these are specific places that are associated with universities as institutions and universities in the case of public universities financed by public funds. In this I think there is a very good reason why legal regulation is to be adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u25	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Rais, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u26	I'll be very brief. As the previous speakers here, in fact, both honored professors have spoken, so we all think that in terms of quality, it will certainly benefit people to be paid politely at universities to be at one university. But that's got to do with funding, numbers, things like that. What is the contradiction, so that it is absolutely obvious, and I stress that I consider it perfectly logical that we cannot meet somewhere, the contradiction is that I am not a lawyer, but lawyers say that it is unprepared. That is why I am more or less in agreement with the opinion that the Minister says that we should improve the text, the world does not end, and in some time this proposal is well-adjusted to put there, because the risk here from my point of view is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u27	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mr. Štětina with a proper application. Mrs Putnová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u28	Hello. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am always trying to be brief and clear in my speeches, because I would not have written it better if I were to repeat what was said before me by the prominent lords of the professors, with whom, with one exception, I completely agree, and I almost felt that if I had written a speech like Professor Karamazov, I would not have written it better, so I think there were a lot of words here. I have two or three basic things to say. It is absolutely okay and desirable that this law must be adopted. It is indeed right that the Minister has agreed to this, that he is also going against the will of many in lobbyists who do not want this law, and it is a good thing that this law, I believe, will be approved and adopted. I'd like to say one thing. I could have become a lecturer sometime in 1992 or 1993 when it was allowed for a transitional period to rehabilitate people who had some publications, write books and so on that they could apply for a lecture and receive it. I strongly rejected it because I would degrade the work of all the esteemed professors and professors who deserved these titles. And it's not just so-called beauties before and behind the name. It is also about the fact that these prominent masters raised our generation, and of course the quality of education was much better than it is at present, unfortunately due to the great expansion of private universities. Of course, my other and perhaps already final point is related to this. I am a truly enemy of so-called flying docents and professors. It doesn't make any difference, and I can't imagine having three jobs as an ordinary feldsman, it's not about funding, whether I'd make 20,000 more or less. I would not be able to do my job responsibly because I am employed at one university, I have to work scientifically, and here I would like to commend Mr. Vice Prime Minister, who is in charge of science and research, he is not here, that he is also not indifferent about how money for science and research goes, but I think that college must have its permanent staff, who work scientifically, educate, publish and guarantee the quality of our higher education. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u29	Thank you. Please get to Mrs Putnová's microphone, Mr Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u30	Good morning. Madam President, Madam Minister, we have stumbled on the third reading of the higher education law. When Minister Chládek presented this amendment in May 2015, I suggested that we return it to recast because I criticized not only what is in the amendment, but also what is missing in the amendment. Since then, ministers and cooperation have changed, communication has gotten a much nicer and nicer face, but the content of the amendment has not changed much. I was complaining at the time, and I said I was sorry it was a wasted chance. Wasted odds because we have not spoken to the fundamental key issues associated with higher education, with funding, with the support of students in terms of grants and scholarships, so that they are not dependent on parents under the law under 26 years of age. This amendment completely ignores lifelong education. In 1998, when the current university law came into force, lifelong learning was actually a new concept. We haven't completely dealt with it. And what was supposed to be the original law became a novel, from which we actually cut only the part that concerns accreditation. In this context, I would like to comment on some amendments concerning the accreditation body that I have tabled. I have tried to increase the number of members from 15 to 21 in the amendments under the heading L6 to L11, so that the pressure on the accreditation body, on members that will undoubtedly be large, should be covered by research and training areas, to a certain extent spread over them. I have asked that the members of the accreditation board have defined independence not only formally, but also set out its financial remuneration and the means which will lead to the President and Vice-Presidents actually doing so full-time and will continue to be incompatible with the work in the academic sphere. These are amendments concerning the accreditation body. I consider independence and free decision-making to be absolutely essential to the future of this amendment. I am delighted to hear all the speeches that promise that this amendment will bring about an improvement in the quality of higher education, and I look forward to remembering these words in the years to come if they have actually succeeded. [[10.30 hours]] The other amendment under the heading L3 to L5 concerns the composition of academic chambers. I suggest that the single members have professors and professors. Higher education is very hierarchical and very structured, it is therefore unusual and completely out of control of all other forms of school management to meet assistants and assistants in academic chambers and there are absolutely no prerequisites for their work - neither qualifications nor age, nor even the degree of part-time, so you can work in the academic Senate and decide on the running of the faculty. I would also like to comment on the medialized dispute of faculty law and the rights of the rectorate, respectively. Rectors versus Deans. I see the problem as serious, but not fatal. It seems to me that it is about measuring the forces between the presidents and the deans, which is that, of course, both groups would want more powers and more competences for themselves. The interesting thing is that in this dispute, the directors and members of the Czech Rectors' Conference agree and willingly accept the autonomy provided by institutional accreditation, but do not want to proceed with that authority. I don't see it fatally because I see it as part of a generational dispute. The current deans will be future rectors. Undoubtedly, life will find its way, but at this point, I would advocate that the powers remain at faculty level. We have had the opportunity to meet with a frequent argument recently that individual university representations have worked hundreds of hours to come up with this compromise proposal. As my friend jokingly remarked, college representation worked hundreds of hours to make no difference. You can, of course, argue with me how many paragraphs in this amendment have met the changes. I can only agree partially with that, because if you look at what is really important in the future in terms of universities, it's a change of accreditation. If it succeeds, it will depend on how quality the accreditation office will be and how integrating and morally strong personalities will sit in this body. I think today we're going to end the stumbling of the amendment to the higher law, but I have to end with a statement, it's a wasted chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u31	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Zahradník's microphone, Mrs Válková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I too dare to address this issue. For eight years I have also been a member of the University of South Bohemia academic community as a teacher, so I would say a few words. Finally, I would like to make a further request to support my amendment. But first, here's the debate. I have heard many times here say the word "flying professors," and I understand that this is something other than the translator of David Lodge's novel, in the original Changing Places. There the professors - one from England, the other from California - exchange their jobs. Each person then spends a year at his colleague's workplace with all the consequences it brings, belonging to the novel. But that's not it. That's not what you mean when you talk about it. But just such flying professors we need, people who would be able to change their places were able to work at another workplace abroad and to bring to their kindergarten the knowledge they gained there, and I am afraid that does not solve this law either. As far as students are concerned. Even for students here, this possibility should be allowed to a much greater extent. Professor Karamazov mentioned here that one of the problems of our higher education, I will say this openly, is the structured study. I believe that this is one of the obstacles for students of our universities to have more frequent exchanges abroad during their studies. They start to study, they get preoccupied, then they already have a bachelor's thesis, a bachelor's exam, and then they follow up on a two-year follow-up Master's degree. It's just not the time to drop off for a year or a semester, go abroad and come back. I feel that one of the reasons why this is not the case is also not a very good language knowledge of our students, but we also cannot address this by law, but rather by internal adaptations of individual faculties. I agree with what my colleague Karamazov says, and I support his proposal that faculties retain their powers. I was talking about the closure or openness of our universities. In an annex to Saturday's publication of an important journal, I was impressed by one article by two press releases, an important professor, university capacity dealing with the problems of our higher education, and one of the many ideas that were mentioned there - and it can be seen in our universities, a certain linearity of procedure. At the head of many cathedrals are people who took entrances to the faculty, to the department, who graduated, did a dissertation, and then, as members of the department, they habilitated somewhere, returned and are now head of the department, and did not actually pull their heels out of their college. I think that's something we have to try to change at all costs. I believe that unfortunately one of those reasons is our beautiful mother tongue given by our ancestors, but unfortunately not quite a good ability of our students and in many cases teachers to know and learn not a foreign language, but foreign languages in plurals, I mean. The law certainly does not give it any ambition, nor is it possible, but rather each of us teachers in universities must think about it and try, if possible, to find ways to make contact with universities abroad, and if not just overseas, perhaps in the nearest neighborhood. We have it easy in South Bohemia. We have both excellent universities in the vicinity of Jan Kepler University in Linz, the University of Passau, and we are really working with them. Finally, let me comment on what I indicated at the outset to make a request to support the amendment, which is mentioned here under the letter J. The proposal concerns, first of all, education in an internationally recognised course, where the paragraph somehow excludes private universities from its reach, while the previous paragraph 60, which talks about lifelong learning, is somehow neutral and uses the term "college." I suggest that the adjectives of the public college be cut off, and that paragraph applies to private universities as well. I do not know why they should be discriminated against from this point of view. And two. My proposed amendment concerns the issue of certificates of recognition for higher education, and here again I propose that an adjective be cut off by a public college, and thus that such certificates may also be issued by private universities. I therefore ask you to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line, please, and that is Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I don't think I'm going to use this more or less unlimited time space for a longer period than the factual point. We'll see. I wanted to make a general statement on this novel. As a university academic worker who has been working for decades at our universities, especially in public schools, but I also have experience with private ones, I think that the time has matured or overripe and that such an absolute minimum that requires the academic sphere to function better. I will begin with my experience, which has been sufficiently mediated, in the case of Pilsen law, where you know how the Accreditation Commission intervened, that it did not have easy, even in the absence of adequate legislation, to make it possible to get rid of influence, sometimes titles of those who abused their position as academic workers. So what the amendment is proposing now equalizes the state that has been here for a very long time and bears its bad fruit even in the form of discrediting some faculties. So I also welcome the state accreditation institute. It is certainly a good thing if the amendment is adopted, and now I will not say exactly the letter which will strengthen the independence of the senior officials of this office, who, in addition to the truly morally integrated personalities and professional assumptions, should also be sufficiently legislatively independent, and should be confirmed there, even by adopting the amendment that goes in this direction. I will not, of course, comment on all the amendments, because we all have our priorities in the academic field, but I have no choice but to return to the so-called popular topic of flying professors, because I also have experience with this and I would certainly not use such a pejorative term. I follow, by your means, Madam President, the speech of Mr Štětina. I am definitely the last of those who would like to work in more positions and in more schools without being able to do honest work that would be controllable and that would have results in the form of good graduates. However, I know very well what the current legal situation is. I have spoken to Professor Bělina in the meantime, since we are already referring to your capacity through you, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Like me, he thinks he's a total legislative scumbag, I'm sorry that this is contrary to constitutional standards and labour law, employment regulations, and, like me, he thinks that in this way we are definitely not going to raise and guarantee a professional level and enough time subsidies from individual academic staff in specific schools. We already have other tools for that. Deans can use them. It is also a question of the civil bravery of the responsible dean to say goodbye to his coworker, a colleague who runs and flies around various faculties and does not fulfil his basic duties. That's why we have internal regulations, both the statute and, of course, the labour code. So the amendment is really bad both factually and contrary to the applicable rules of labour law and formally, legislatively. So voting for him would at least have no lawyer in this room. Otherwise, as far as the issue is concerned, which really seems to require brief consultations and some enlightenment of competence and which is essential, competence in favour of the deans or more in favour of the rectors. In my opinion, the answer to this question cannot be yes or no, because it depends on what competence. And while dean's personnel skills should clearly be strengthened, or at least they should not be weakened, so in terms of economic governance, here I really am very in doubt if individual faculties should be strengthened at the expense of who will then ultimately bear their responsibility, or the Rector of the relevant university. But perhaps we have given little time to this in previous debates, because obviously, even from the discussions that have been going on here at the break, it is clear that some colleagues, Members, are unclear on this issue. So I'm going to close my short performance just by calling on us to accept this amendment, so that we finally give the academic areas what it should have already had, at least a little bit of order and firmer rules to release or not support proposals that are contrary to constitutionally and labour law and are not well prepared by legislation, and to hope that academic workers, especially officials, will apply this amendment in practice, perhaps better than it looks at first sight, to apply what we approve of the bona fide, i.e. with confidence and belief that we wanted the best for them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u35	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Before we proceed, allow me to state a change in my apologies. My colleague Kostřica cancels his apology and will be present with us. On the other hand, Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes for the whole day and between 10 and 11.30 Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes. The next performer is Mr. Milan Šarapatka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u36	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the words of many called here, and we will certainly hear them. Although I do not consider myself one in this field, I do have some experience with studying abroad, and I would therefore like to comment on the proposal for recognition of foreign education by private universities. I consider this to be a huge risk, given the well-known uneven quality of some private universities. I don't think I need to name them here. This would be a transfer of the administration's performance to a private entity, which I do not think is desirable. I can imagine - today we're gonna buy a college degree on the Internet, so I can imagine that it could just do business with it, etc. The current state of affairs, when foreign education accredits or accepts university, is confirmed by the Ministry of Education in the event of an appeal, I consider it absolutely sufficient and adequate situation. As far as further proposals are concerned, or as far as the draft and amendments are concerned, I do not like the proposal to extend the accreditation body to 21. It doesn't seem to cover all the 36 areas involved anyway, and then it will increase the demands on the state budget. Then I kind of feel like they're not exactly candidates for those jobs anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u37	I thank Mr Milan Šarapatek. Now two factual points before Mr Svoboda, who is duly registered, namely Mr Karamazov and Mrs Putnová. Now, therefore, Mr Simeon Karamazov's factual comment. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u38	Thank you for the floor. Just a quick comment about Professor Válková. She said that faculty rights should be maintained, but at the same time she said that there should be no shift towards the rectors. But at best, if nothing happens, faculty rights will be preserved. Otherwise, what the rectors want is the opposite. They want all the rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mrs Anna Putnová also makes a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u40	Just a brief response to Mr Šarapatka's comments. There are currently 21 members of the accreditation committee, so we assume that this number would be maintained. And another point that concerns an increase in the state budget. I think this is an odd argument, because universities run 23 billion plus minus a year, and an increase in membership is not a major item. Not to mention, in recent years, we have invested almost half a billion in determining quality in universities, so I think that we could also strengthen the independence of the accreditation body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u41	Thank you, ma'am. My colleague Rais has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u42	I will respond to what I have heard here about half a billion crowns in quality. I wonder where that came from, because as far as I know, some research was done for $60 million. That's one thing. The second thing is - I understand the concern of Mr Šarapatka in the sense that it will simply come from the budget of the Ministry of Education, so there will be no increase, it goes from the chapter of the Ministry of Education, including the construction of the whole institution. There I would also be relatively restrained in those numbers if, aside from the fact that everyone knows everyone, so talk about independence by increasing numbers, it gets even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u43	I thank Mr Rais. Now, then, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, in a proper application for discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me, as a lifelong university teacher, as a person who has worked in the academic Senate of the University, faculty for many years as a vice-dean, as a dean of the faculty - I think there are a number of facts that I know well, which I have experienced, and there is a need to talk about them here. I think that college law has a purpose, of course. There is indeed the strongest chapter, the issue of accreditation, which I strongly support... My concern, my concern is that the accreditation body should be sufficiently independent. Of course, the inner feeling, when something is funded, that it is not dependent on it, remains within me. The question is, how does the practice do it? I'm also a member of the accreditation committee, so I know how it works. Indeed, the question of independence will be fundamental, and it may force us to change something about the structure of the office or its financing or its location in space-time. But in any case, it's a crucial step, and it's actually the most important one. The second thing that this law should be dealing with is a particular question. He should lead to better teaching at our schools, that our students would be more competitive, that the graduates of our universities would be accepted as equal graduates of universities elsewhere in Europe or elsewhere in the world. And I think that's the thing that best ensures that the development of the state of teaching is actually running from the bottom. It can't run from upstairs. No Rector can order... Of course, we have universities where the rector has so many employees that the faculty has at another university. Then I guess it's a simple question. But let's take the big institutions, and that's where it all really has to go from the bottom. The quality of teaching runs from the quality of the faculty there, how it can create its teaching program, how it can work with students, how it can ensure communication with the world, that is, with internships, internships, with the use of Erasm and all the possibilities that current times give us. And that is why, from my point of view, limiting the possibilities and powers of faculties in certain matters, I see it as a fundamental mistake. Just because something can't be driven from upstairs. As a vice-dean, I experienced the phase where the faculties lost their legal personality. Immediately thereafter, it was a huge problem for us. A huge problem that's been going on for years because all these things have been set differently. Suddenly, they worked differently. And to this day, I'm feeling it a little bit... On the one hand, I understand why legal personality is lacking at the university, on the other hand, in the faculty, some of the possibilities that legal personality gives. Traffic's missing, there's a shortage. And what's absolutely crucial about our teaching is that the faculty has to have quality teachers. That's why I made my amendment, that's K1, because I'm willing to accept a whole series of compromises and understand them, and I always wonder with such hope that if a marriage doesn't work out, it can be fixed, and if there is a mistake, it can be corrected. But if we take legal personality from faculties on employment issues, we undermine the most fundamental of what is there. If I don't get to choose my teachers as dean, I won't be able to choose them in accordance with what my research program is, what my pedagogical program is, if I can't pay them, and that's the question of those flying professors, those flying professors, it's actually a distortion of that word. A flying professor is a beautiful thing when he flies off into the world, there's a year as a visiting professor, great. This is different. These people do it because they want to make extra money. If I, as dean, have the opportunity to pay my professor, I guarantee you he won't go anywhere. And we don't fly anywhere from our faculty, either, just because we pay differently than we pay elsewhere. It is also a question of the fact that there are faculties that have their foreign students. We teach in English curriculus, we get some resources, we are able to pay quality teachers from these resources, because for English curriculus you must also have a language teacher and a teacher who is able to accept how they learn in the world because they teach them in a different environment. And in all of this, he must be able to speak to the dean of the faculty. It won't work otherwise. I don't want to talk about the fact that there are universities that have several faculties that have a very related content content content. It's simple in medicine, there's just five medical faculties, but let's just say the most necessary legal or sociological directions in those faculties are similar. I can't imagine an angelic rector coming from a faculty that would work fairly with all these faculties. I want to believe it, but so far, life has always disappointed me in these things. I therefore believe that if this law has any meaning, we all need to compromise on some balance between these things and then clear it up. But one thing that is essential, which does not allow compromise, in my opinion, is that the dean has the opportunity to speak as someone with a crucial say in employment relations. It's also based on the principle that if we take the dean's vote for the faculty senate, the rector is elected by the senate of the university - why do we have the two senators, why is there some aspect of the double degree of the trial? Then we don't have to have them, then we can do it all at university level. My proposal, which I actually put forward against the official one, has one change: it says that the dean decides in employment relations in accordance with the faculty statute. That's a thing that can't bother anyone, that doesn't interfere with anything, and believe me, the faculty will be operational at that point. That's why. And I guarantee it as a man who has been dean for seven years and a dean for 12 years. [[11.00 hours]] If I am not able to build a quality educational and scientific body, the level of our education will never rise. The Rector's only role there is to secure it from above, bring it together and support good things. Everything in this sphere must really come from the bottom. From the top-quality last assistant who teaches, that's what the quality of the school is growing from. Not since some crucial decision to accept an academic from Boston. That's good too. But if we can't pay young teachers, pay young educators, prove that these superstitions will become real teachers, that they won't go anywhere else in the industrial sphere, if we can't do this, we won't have any quality universities. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. It is also a generational problem simply because our old army is starting to serve and we would already need someone behind us to keep the quality of the teaching in the future. Again, if we do not allow universities to have the opportunity to fight for the quality of their educational and scientific bodies, those schools will not be of good quality, and this whole law will miss its goal.Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u45	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. One more factual comment by Mrs Anna Putnová and then by Mr František Vácha in a proper application. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u46	I was asked where it came from such a high amount, which I actually attributed to the preparation of both higher education law and quality change in universities. It concerns all programs, not just quality. Let's include Q-Ram, EFIN, quality, methodology. Of course, we can also take into account the audit of Technopolis or the reform of tertiary education. Then we'll really make it to the half-billion-dollar sum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u47	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Now, Mr František Vácha, at this moment, the last in writing entered into the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Madam Secretary. So I have to say, the law was originally meant to deal with or deal with serious matters of accreditation. Unfortunately, it is sad that he has recently shrunk to a debate around Section 24 of the Law of the Faculties or questions of flying professors. There are much more important topics to be addressed. The fact that it has slipped to one or two things here is due to the interests of certain power groups, which I am sorry to say, but I must say, are capable of denying citizens the constitutional right to be elected to the Chamber of Deputies. The proof that this isn't actually a draft of the Ministry is that there isn't a word in the explanatory statement about the faculty rights. I understand the presidents why they're coming up with this proposal, but I think there should be a much wider debate about it. I'll just give you one example that I think should convince you. He's already mentioned this to a fellow Svoboda. The deans are elected by the faculty senates and correspond with the faculty chambers. They may be recalled by the Rector, but only if the faculty senate agrees. And imagine you're elected faculty senate, but the faculty's internal organization determines your rector. The Rector determines how to handle the funds. The creation and implementation of study programmes is determined by the Rector. Strategic focus and creative activity, employment relations and other things. Even the money you earn as a faculty will be decided by the Rector. I think this is really for a wider debate, and I'm sorry it didn't appear in the explanatory report. This is, I think, one of the fundamental arguments why we should support either Amendment C5, or Amendment K1 of Mr Liberty. There's been talk of these G1 and G3 designs about flying professors. Madam President, I am not a lawyer, so luckily I can or will vote as I think it should be. I understand Mr Zlatuška's proposal, I think it is correct. I'm not a lawyer, I think you have some arguments. However, the function of flying professors is being abused today. As dean of the faculty, we have a lot of people who teach at other universities. But they teach there either for free or in the form of DPP or DPČ. That doesn't stop anyone from teaching at another university. Of course, there are universities that don't have the experts, and I'm happy to provide them with our experts, if they agree. This is a completely different institute that Professor Zlatuška wants to deal with. So that's the question of the flying professors. And as I said in the beginning, we slipped to Section 24 and flying professors, but the law was originally supposed to be about something completely different. It was supposed to be about quality in universities, that's about changing the accreditation process, and there I think we might be halfway there. I'm afraid we're probably not missing some amendment to this law, because the accreditation process, modeling the accreditation process, which is now somehow set up, is missing in the preparatory process. I know the accreditation process in Austria, where, like us, institutional accreditation is planned. They have it there, too. They decide on the fields of study within the institutional accreditation, or the universities themselves. So I think we're probably going in the right direction, but I kind of miss modeling those consequences or ties during the accreditation process. And I would certainly support those amendments concerning the promotion of greater independence of the accreditation body. We know, and it has already been mentioned that the accreditation committee has 21 members today. So why reduce the number of members of the accreditation body? It is true that if we do institutional accreditation, which will cover some field, some broader fields, then we should have experts on the accreditation board who will cover, for example, two related institutionally accredited disciplines. So here I would really like to intercede for supporting the greater independence of the accreditation committee. Finally, I would like to wish the Minister not to succumb to lobbyist pressures and to obtain a law that will bring stability to universities but also bring quality to the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u49	I thank Mr František Vách. Another party to the debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, in my brief discussion paper, I would only like to draw attention to the problem that has been raised here many times, that is, the flying professors, even from that point of view, perhaps from the other side. Those professors, they're often from this point of view - I'm sorry for the expression - useful idiots. It's not pejorative, it's not as if it's negative, but sometimes those colleges only need it when they ask for accreditation. They need a major, they need a titled head that has some practice, so they hire it. They barely have accreditation, according to the law maybe for ten years, maybe shorter, but it is not limited there, they get rid of them quite quickly because they are not their tribal, and instead they teach their fields to local employees, often without proper education or expertise, which would belong to it. It's a general problem in universities. We're also pointing out the professors, as well as the professors, but I think that's the problem here, and the problem is being done by the universities themselves. I would like the Committee of Education to look into this and try to think about these professors, too, because if we have the idea that a professor's salary is something enormous above, I think the opposite is more true that their salaries are very low and the average wage - won't be far from the truth when I say that their salary is moving like this. So here I would like to point out that if the university was given accreditation from the title that it has the appropriate capacity to teach, so that it should be checked at a limit of once a year, whether it respects and whether the capacity is really at the university and whether it was only abused at the time of accreditation. And in conclusion, allow me to make one personal unprofessional, strictly lay note. I think there are too many universities in the Czech Republic and we should think about their reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u51	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. One more factual point, Mrs Pilsen - two factual points, the first is Mrs Marta Semelová, then Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u52	Thank you. I just made two brief remarks. I will follow up on my colleague, who mentioned here that there are a very large number of universities in the Czech Republic. It is true, and I would add that out of those roughly 72 universities there are over 40 private universities, often very small, often with problematic quality, and these are the schools that need the so-called schools. Flying professors so they can have a certain field of expertise. Here, in my opinion, it should be really crucial that we try to maintain quality so that other and other private schools are not allowed to do so. The second point is what I wanted to appreciate in the draft higher education law is the solution to the social scholarship of higher education students, which I believe improves their position because we know that many families decide whether to send a student to college or not, just for financial reasons. So here I think the solution that's being offered is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u53	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Mr Pavel Plzák now. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u54	Thank you for the floor, I'll be brief. I would use the factual point, because I will not be able to speak again, and I would ask the Minister to express in her final words which amendment, which amendment, which concerns the appointment of professors, actually supports. She said she supported the amendment, but there are two. [[Voice from the O.R. Three!]] Three, and therefore if he is aware of the risk, if the amendment by Mr Kasal was adopted, if the President had simply not carried out 60 days at all, in no way, and there would have been an automatic appointment. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u55	Thank you. That was the last one to sign up for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate, but the chairman of the club ANO reports to a colleague of Mr Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u56	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask on behalf of our club for a meeting before the vote for 15 minutes. Thank you for understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u57	I will call a break immediately, because the final words are better before the vote, because they will be expressed by both the Minister and the rapporteur probably in the final words after the break. I'm declaring a break until 11.25. [[Objection in the O.R.]] Ten minutes, right? Sorry, 15, 11:30, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. The time for a break for the ANO club meeting has passed. I ask you to take your seats. Before I give the floor to the final words, I state an apology from 12.40 to 16.15 for Mr Jiří Běhounek's work grounds. Now there is room for final words. I'm asking Madam Secretary if he's interested. Yes. Madam Secretary, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the final word of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u59	Mr President, honourable Members, on the basis of the debate that has been held, allow me to respond - first of all, to the call for possible changes in the President's powers. I do not support either of the amendments, i.e. in the following voting procedure, I will accompany them all with disapproval, on the grounds that the President of the Republic has his powers either designated by the Constitution or by law and is to exercise them. I do not consider it appropriate for us to make laws here for specific situations and specific persons. As far as three unnamed professors are concerned, unless they are appointed President of the Republic, of course they will be brought to trial and the President of the Republic will be the result of legal proceedings as for anyone else. Regarding the question of deans and rectors, or if you want universities and faculties. I would also hate to see everyone's efforts that, after ten years, the Chamber of Deputies is finally ready to vote on the amendment to the Higher Law, the debate only shrinks over the relationship between them, they have and what the deans and the rectors are afraid of each other. As to the fact that as a social democrat, perhaps I suggest a weakening of the position of deans or faculties. Well, of course not. The government proposal merely states from the point of view of respecting the autonomy of universities that faculties and universities, respectively. The rector and the deans can freely adjust their affairs by statute. As far as the committee is concerned, we have been led to eliminate the concerns of deans and faculties, which, from my point of view, are mainly due to their negative experience in previous governments. That means I'm glad for the initiative of everyone involved to balance the competence of faculties and universities. Given that the representation of universities has not been reached, i.e. The Board of Higher Education and the Czech Rectors' Conference, to agree on how to adjust these competencies, and in terms of my position as part of the voting procedure, I will take a neutral position on the position of K1. At the same time, I advise that I will support the approval of A8, A9, i.e. a summary amendment resulting from the School Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u60	Thank you, Minister Valachová, for her final word. Now, Mr Mihola as rapporteur with the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u61	Mr President, fellow Members, perhaps everyone who is professionally linked to the academic environment has already spoken about the amendment to the Higher Law. And so I, too, would like to add a few points primarily for this reason, perhaps even more than as rapporteur. But only briefly. I have been in the academic environment for 16 years, and in that time I have also somehow penetrated those mechanisms, although I was not, unlike some colleagues, dean or rector. A few reactions to several previous speakers. I don't think it's appropriate to refer to the amendment as a missed opportunity. I think that the current coalition paid due attention to her, aside from the fact that it was created through the term of several ministers. The amendment was discussed in coalition at both exit and other meetings, further on the subcommittee in the presence of all representatives of the parliamentary clubs, on the committee repeatedly too. It has been discussed with many experts, especially representatives of the Czech Conference of Rectors or the Council of Higher Education and many others, and each of us also within the very scope of our academic positions. The result of these conflict of opinion, including those within the coalition, is a compromise. Maybe somebody's gonna compromise the compromises. But a hand on the heart, hardly another translator, another coalition would have achieved something more forcefully progressive. I would like us not to miss the most important, perhaps the most important, in these extensive discussions, and these were the words that we all may have applied to in our electoral programmes - the quality of Czech universities. And in this context, I'm glad that Mr. docent. Svoboda mentioned it here in his speech, and I also claim it. I could also express myself here in detail to the academic Senate and the proposed changes. I was a senator four times at our Faculty of Education and once also Senator of Masaryk University. I don't want to argue too much with Mrs. docent's proposals. A kolegyně of mine, Putnová. Perhaps someone would add other suggestions similar to hers, e.g. on women's representation quotas in the Senate, etc. But I think reality is a lot simpler than that. I've experienced situations where it was difficult to get people into the Senate at all, to motivate them to work there. And the one mentioned as a quarter-time assistant who could become a senator. I think senators may be elected by reasonable people who today have access to a lot of information, at least in our country, that candidates for senators, both teachers and students, have to introduce themselves, and there should not be any fatal problem that there is someone there who is marginally involved with the school and actually has no interest in it at all. Finally, I would appeal, in particular, to members of the government coalition, to resist the temptation to change matters and topics discussed at the last minute, unless we want to admit that the previous long and complex debates and negotiations were not merely formal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u62	Thank you. And now for the Security Committee - Mrs Černochová is not here, so we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, to present individual amendments and to make his views known before the vote. Individual opinions, even though they were communicated in the final words of the Minister, will be requested from the Minister before and from the vote. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u63	Thank you for the floor. I would first say that the second reading of the bill did not make a motion for rejection. We can therefore vote on the various amendments that have arisen from the negotiations of the Security Committee and the Education Committee and from the second reading of this bill, as set out in all -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u64	I beg the peace of the House! We are discussing the procedure for voting. It's not exactly easy. We'll approve the vote for the procedure, so please pay attention. Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u65	- as they are all mentioned in the Parliamentary Press 464/8. These proposals were discussed and voted by the Education Committee as a guarantee committee at its 22nd meeting on 21 January of this year and adopted the resolution contained in the Parliaments of the Press 464/11. First of all, I would like to introduce you to the entire voting procedure which the Education Committee has decided by its resolution number 145, which we would subsequently approve, and then I would like to take you through the whole vote. [[- Please.]] The first would be the vote on legislative technical adaptations in print 464/11 below the Arabic figure 1. In print, 464/8 are under the letter O. And other legislative amendments concern the letters C2, C3 and A23. In C2, the words "educational and creative activities and related activities' are replaced by the words "educational, creative and related activities'. In C3, the words "educational and creative activities and related activities' are replaced by the words "educational, creative and related activities'. In A23, the words "management and accreditation' are replaced by the words "management or accreditation'. Second, the joint vote on the F1 and F2 proposals, which are Kasal's amendments, is governed by Sections 73 and 95, in substance concerning the appointment of a professor. If the President of the Republic does not appoint a professor proposed by the applicant within 60 days, the applicant shall be appointed by law. If proposals F1 and F2 are approved, proposals D1 plus D2 and proposals I1 and I2 will be unvoted. In the event of non-approval of proposals F1 plus F2, then we must vote together on proposals D1 plus D2. If proposals D1 plus D2 are approved, proposals I1 and I2 will be unvoted. In the event of neither approval nor of proposals D1 plus D2, then we must vote on proposals I1 and I2. I note that these joint votes cannot be divided because they are factually linked. They all concern the appointment of professors. As a further vote, we would vote on proposal C5, which is Mr Karamazov's amendment. It concerns Section 24 of the Law of the Faculty and its bodies. If proposal C5 is approved, proposals K1 and A8 plus A9 will be unvoting. In the event of non-approval of proposal C5, we must vote on proposal K1, which is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's proposal. If K1 is approved, the A8 and A9 will be unvoting. If neither K1 nor K1 are approved, then we must vote together on the A8 and A9 proposals, which are from the resolution of the School Committee. The next vote would be a joint vote on proposals C2 plus C3 by Mr Karamazov again. This is about replacing the Rector's words - the chairman of the board. If C2 and C3 are approved, then the A1 points 15 and 27 are non-voting. The next vote would be on proposals A1 to A43. This is a resolution of the Education Committee. This vote would be with the exception of A1 points 15 and 27 if C2 and C3, and A2 points 244 and also with the exception of A8 plus A9. If proposals A3 and A4 are approved, the unvoteable proposal C4 will be approved. If A26 is approved, the unvoting proposal will be C8. If A42 is approved, the L2 proposal will be unvoting. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We would then vote together on proposals B1 to B6. This is a resolution of the Security Committee. Another would be a joint vote on proposals C1 and C6. According to letter C, there are again proposals from my colleague Karamazov. These are adaptations in Sections 9 and 27 concerning the authorisation of members of the academic Senate of the university, respectively. faculty design internal regulations of the university, respectively. faculty, i.e. not exclusively the Rector, respectively. Dean. Please note that these votes cannot be divided. Then we would vote on proposal C7. It is an amendment to § 81b, in substance a shorter period of validity of institutional accreditation only in the event that the immediately preceding application has been rejected, not in general earlier, as the amendment states. Subsequently, we would vote jointly on the E1 and E2 proposals of our fellow Member, Rais. This is an adjustment to the transitional provisions in Article II, in substance transitional provisions for the term of office of the members of the Accreditation Commission. Once again, I point out that the vote cannot be divided. Another would be a joint vote on the G1 and G3 proposals, Mrs Berdychová's proposals. These provide for a resolution of Section 70 and a point of transitional provisions. The issue is, in substance, that the same person can only stand up for one university, for another only with the agreement of the Rector of the university where he holds such a post, plus a transitional provision. Once again, G1 and G3 cannot be divided. Another would be the vote on the G2 proposal. In Section 70, the following paragraph 8 is added in substance: if a person is an academic worker at more than one university, part of a university, he may vote and be elected to the academic Senate of a university, part of a university only on one of them. The next vote would be the vote on the H1 proposal, which is Mrs Halíková's proposal. It concerns the addition of Annex 3 to the new public administration area to universities. We would then vote together on the proposals of J1 and J2 of Mr Zahradník. It concerns the new provision of § 60a, § 89, § 90. The issue is: conducting internationally recognized courses and awarding internationally recognized degrees can not only be public, but any university, nostrifying foreign education can not only be public, but any university. Once again, I point out that the vote cannot be divided. Then we will vote on the L1 proposal. Under the letter L, there are suggestions from Mr Laudát, who regulates the provisions of Section 8. In addition to the Rector and the Vice-Rector, he has the right to perform at the meeting of the academic senate of the university and the dean. We would also vote together on proposals L3 plus L4 plus L5. Again from the workshop of Mr. Laudát. It concerns the provisions of Sections 8 and 26. In substance, it is compulsory for at least one third of professors and professors to be represented in the academic senate of the university, respectively. faculty. Again, I warn you that this vote cannot be divided either. Furthermore, a joint vote on proposals L6 plus L8 plus L10 would be followed, proposing amendments to § 83a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 4 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. In substance, it is an increase in the number of the Board of the Accreditation Office to 21, as a general rule professors and lecturers. Again, even here, the vote cannot be divided. [[11.50 hours]] Furthermore, a joint vote on proposals L7 plus L11 would follow. It amends § 83 et seq. 4 and inserting a new part 3. The amendment of the Act on the salary of representatives of the state authority regulates the remuneration of the members of the Board of the Accreditation Office in substance, not the government, plus a specific proposal. The vote cannot be divided here either. We would then vote on the proposal L9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its It is, in substance, a more strongly formulated independence of the members of the Board of the Accreditation Office, the incompatibility of any activity at a university, with the exception of teaching on the basis of agreements outside the employment relationship with the exercise of the office of chairman or vice-chairman of the Board. Other members of the Board shall not endanger other activities with confidence in the independence and impartiality of the Accreditation Authority. We would also vote on the M1 proposal, under the letter M, is Mrs Dobešová's proposals. It is a modification of § 68 para. 1. It is, in substance, an explicit anchoring of the possibility of a university to recognise exams or other study obligations from higher vocational schools. The next would be the vote on the M2 proposal, the amendment of Section 78a. It is, in substance, an extension of the standards for the accreditation of the study programme to specific requirements for study programmes carried out in a foreign language in cooperation with foreign universities and to study programmes for which study obligations from higher vocational schools are recognised. The last one would be the vote on the 1 proposal by Mr Tejc. Edits § 60a. It is relevant - internationally recognized courses to open also for students and graduates of Czech universities, not only foreign, as is the case according to the current wording of the law. The last would be the vote on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted. So much for the procedure of voting, and I would like to ask the House for its approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u66	Thank you. Now to the procedure for voting. President of TOP 09 and then Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know about you, but sometimes it happens to me that I look in the face of the bitter fact that my intellectual abilities are limited and that I am unable to understand what is required of me. That's what happened to me now. As much as I appreciate the rapporteur's efforts and, as carefully as I have taken notes and confronted with the various amendments, I have simply lost myself in the midst of his interpretation. And if I had to vote on the procedure now, I cannot fulfil my constitutional responsibility to vote on my conscience and consciousness, because I have no idea what I would vote on. If I am not the dullest member of this Chamber of Deputies, I think there are more of us here, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur could repeat the procedure, explain why the proposals proposed by the Chamber of Deputies are unvoteable, and for each proposal, if he were to indicate the substance in question. I think this bill is the result of too much work to begin voting formally now. And I am convinced that now that we are voting on the procedure, this 147 of us will only vote formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u68	Mr President, I understand you, but before he repeats the procedure as appropriate, I think that comments on the procedure must be given in order for the rapporteur to do so. So in this respect, I will give my colleague Bohdalová the opportunity to perform, and then we will get to it. [[Member Kalousek off the microphone: Can I explain my opinion?]] Of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u69	My comment on the procedure is obvious. As much as I appreciate the preparation of the rapporteur, his interpretation was incomprehensible to me, and I would like to repeat it, including the name of the substance of the amendments and the justification for the non-voting of those proposals which are referred to as unvoting. I accept if you don't take my point. However, I am here to publicly declare that then I do not know what I am voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u70	I will now give the floor to Mrs. Vlasta Bohdalová, then again to the rapporteur, because the procedure is indicated, although not entirely, until about from point G1 then the printing number is sorted in the order in fact in the material over 11. And now, Mrs Bohdalová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u71	On the procedure, I propose that we vote on points B1 to B6, when the draft procedure includes a joint vote on proposals B1 to B6, it is a resolution from the Security Committee, I propose that we vote on points B1 to B4 and B6 and vote on points B5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u72	That is, a joint vote B1 to B4 and a separate vote B5, B6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u73	B1 to B4 and B6 and B5 separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u74	Copy that, separately B5. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u75	Thank you. I would have responded briefly to President Kalousek. I'm a little sorry that such an experienced Member at third reading doesn't know what we're talking about. I'm almost shocked, and just because I don't want to delay, I'm not taking a break to recover, Mr. Chairman. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Otherwise, if you don't know, your colleagues are also sitting on the school committee. But maybe you didn't even notice that fact. We discussed this very closely there, and as I mentioned in my final statement before the procedure, and indeed the coalition meetings and representatives of all clubs were so much that I believe that your colleagues already know all the amendments completely by heart. Moreover, I have been told and I hope that this is true, i.e., I cannot guarantee that each of the Members has received this procedure on the bench, so that he can really concentrate and not, as you said, rely solely on his colleagues. I really wouldn't want that. I wouldn't take that on my conscience, so you'd be dependent on looking at other people's hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u76	A colleague of Kalousek. I ask the House for peace! It's really a complicated procedure, and you've all got it in the press prescribed, and the voting order has some logic that just isn't recorded in that order. But, of course, it requires some attention. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u77	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to delay, and I'm sorry I shocked the rapporteur. I don't want to downplay his work, and I also didn't think of my performance as his personal criticism. I have simply confided in you here in all humility with my intellectual limit, which I believe is not unique in this House at this moment. I am simply convinced that if we vote on the procedure that has been presented now, half of us will not know what they are voting on. Maybe somebody doesn't mind, I respect that. At that point, I will feel like someone who embezzles his constitutional responsibilities to know what I am voting for. That's why I took the liberty of asking for a repeat and a more detailed explanation. If it's an inappropriate request, just reject it, but I want to have a clear conscience that I know what I'm voting about, now that I vote on the procedure, I'm responsible, and I blame myself, saying, I don't know what I'm voting on. But I'm convinced that the vast majority of you are as much in it as I am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u78	Okay. The rapporteur specified the procedure. Agree, Mr rapporteur, with Mrs Bohdalová's proposal, a split vote on B1 to B4 plus B6 and a separate vote on B5? Yes? It's, in my opinion, about step 10, according to the notes, okay? Is anyone asking for a repeat of the procedure from the rapporteur? My colleague Kalousek requests it, the rapporteur thinks that... okay. If only my colleague Kalousek is asking for this, I have no choice but to vote on whether others agree to the procedure or not. Mr. Rapporteur... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] All right, I apologize to my colleague Kalousek. The first vote will be that the rapporteur repeats the voting procedure. Yes? So who agrees to repeat the voting procedure? I've started voting number 97 and I'm asking who's in favour of repeating the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 97, from 179 in favour of 33, against 87. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote on the approval of the proposed procedure with the amendment proposed by Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. We will decide in the '98 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of approving such a procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 98, from 179 in favour of 147, against 1. The procedure has been approved. Please, rapporteur, take your reporting role. So, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u79	So first, we will proceed to the vote on legislative technical adaptations, which are under O and further in C2, C3 and A23. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u80	I've started the 99-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 99, from 178 in favour of 174, against no one. It's been approved. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u81	The next vote is on F1 and F2. I quote, these are the proposals regarding the appointment of professors. If proposals F1 and F2 are approved, proposals D1 plus D2 and proposals I1 and I2 will be unvoted. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u82	I've started the 100 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100, from 178 in favour of 36, against 22. The motion was not accepted. Next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u83	Since the proposals F1 plus F2 have not been approved, we must vote on the proposals D1 plus D2. If proposals D1 plus D2 are approved, proposals I1 and I2 will be unvoted. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u84	I've started voting number 101, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 101, from 178 in favour of 13, against 139. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u85	We must therefore now vote on proposals I1 and I2. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u86	I've begun the vote in order number 102, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102, from 179 in favour of 11, against 147. The motion was not accepted. President Kalousek once more. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u87	I'm so sorry, I know I'm annoying about this, maybe if it were budget rules or something I've been dealing with for 20 years, I wouldn't have the problem. I didn't know what the vote was when the procedure was voted out, and I believe that most of you were in that situation. I believe that even now that it is said I1 and it is immediately voted that we will not be able to find ourselves in these several amendments so that we can react quickly. If any of you don't mind, don't bother him and follow the pilot's lead, but I have a big favor to ask. Now I do not want to vote, but if this process is not meant to be formal, then if the rapporteur were so kind as to convey its substantive content to each amendment at least once in a sentence. I would feel better as a legislator in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u88	I think that the rapporteur always says at least what it relates to, and if he said it at point F1, F2, then those points D1 and I1, 2 concerned the same thing, or, of course, in substance, it was the same thing. So in this respect, I didn't ask him to do it, I asked for an opinion. But please, rapporteur, always stress when we will get to the next subject of negotiations. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u89	Mr Kalousek, I will try my best to comply with your reminder. I'm sorry if I didn't explicitly say that with all the amendments, but at first I said actually, they're talking about the same thing, about the appointment of professors, they're basically alternative, and I described them in detail in the introduction to the procedure. But I will accept it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u90	Another proposal, please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u91	Another suggestion. We will now vote on the proposal C5, which is Mr Karamazov's proposal, concerning Section 24 of the Law of the Faculties and their institutions. If C5 is approved, K1 and A8 plus A9 will be unvoting. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u92	I've started the vote on order number 103 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, from 179 in favour of 30, against 127. The motion was not accepted. The proposal is an alternative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u93	We are continuing the alternative proposal by Mr Liberty. Since proposal C5 has not been approved, we must now vote on K1. If K1 is approved, it will be unvoting A8 plus A9. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee - the Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u94	I've started the vote on order number 104 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 104 of 179 for 109, against 20. The motion was accepted. [[Weak applause from the right.]] Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u95	Since the proposal has been adopted, we can proceed to the next vote. Now it would be about proposals C2 plus C3. These are Mr Karamazov's amendments, which are to replace the words'rector, President of the Council'. If approved, the A1 points 15 and 27 are non-voting. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u96	I've started the vote with order number 105, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 105 of 180 present for 174, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u97	We will now vote on proposals A1 to A43 with the exception of points 15 and 27 of A1, points 244 and A8 plus A9 of A2 respectively. This is a resolution of the Education Committee. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u98	I've started the vote on order number 106 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 106 of 180 for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can go on another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u99	Now the vote on B1, B2, B3, B4 and B6, which is all the resolutions of the Security Committee. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u100	I've begun the vote in order number 107 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 107 of 180 present for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u101	We move on to a separate vote on B5, which is again an amendment from the Security Committee. It is a resolution which is proposed, in substance, to amend § 95 para. 3. It is a study of members of the Police of the Czech Republic, which follows the requirements of the Ministry of Interior. The amendment is proposed to members of the Security Councils who should comply with the requirements of these Security Councils. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u102	I've started the vote on order number 108, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 108 of 180 present for 73, against 91. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u103	Now the vote on C1 plus C6, which is the proposals of my colleague Karamazov. These are adaptations in Sections 9 and 27 concerning the authorisation of members of the academic Senate of the university, or faculty, to propose internal regulations of the university or faculty, i.e. not exclusively the rector or dean. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u104	I've begun the vote on order 109, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 109 of 180 present for 15, against 151. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u105	The C7 vote. It is an amendment to § 81b, in substance a shorter period of validity of institutional accreditation only in the event that the immediately preceding application would be rejected, not in general earlier, as the amendment states. It is Mr Karamazov's proposal. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u106	I've started the 110 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 110 of 180 present for 174, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u107	The vote on E1 and E2 is an amendment by Mr Rais. It is an adaptation of the transitional provisions in Article II, in substance transitional provisions for the term of office of the members of the accreditation board. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u108	I've started the vote with order number 111, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 111 of the 180 present for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u109	The G1 and G3 vote, which are Mrs Berdychová's amendments. These provide for the provisions of Section 70 and the point of the transitional provision, namely that the same person may serve as an academic worker only at one university, to another only with the agreement of the Rector of the university where he holds such a post, plus a transitional provision. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u110	I've started the 112-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 112 of 180 present for 61 Members, against 104. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u111	The G2 vote, which is again Mrs Berdychová's proposal, is supplemented by a new paragraph in Section 70. 8, in substance: if a person is an academic worker at more than one university, part of a university, he may vote and be elected to the academic senate of a university, part of a university, only one of them. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u112	I've begun the vote on order number 113, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 113 of the 180 present for 32, against 116. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u113	There will be a vote on the H1 proposal, an amendment by Mrs Halíková. It concerns the addition of Annex 3 to universities, a new area of public administration. The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u114	I've initiated order number 114. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 114, 180 for 68, against 102. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u115	Voting on J1 plus J2, which is the amendment of Mr Zahradník. It concerns the new provision of § 60a, § 89 and § 90. The point, in fact, is that it is possible not only to carry out internationally recognised courses and to award internationally recognised degrees to public but to any university, to nostrifify foreign education not only to public but to any university. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u116	I've started the vote with order number 115. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 115, from the present 180 for 18, against 136. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u117	We will now vote on the L1, which is the proposal by Mr Laudát, who regulates the provisions of Section 8, in addition to the Rector and the Vice-Rector, has the right to perform at the session of both the academic Senate of the College and the Dean. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u118	I've started the vote with order number 116. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 116, from present 180 for 172, compared to 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u119	The vote on L3 plus L4 plus L5, again from Mr Laudát's workshop. It concerns the provisions of Sections 8 and 26. In substance, it is compulsory for at least one third of professors and professors to be represented in the academic senate of the university, respectively. faculty. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u120	I've started the vote with order number 117. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, from 180 present for 22, against 150. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u121	The vote on L6 plus L8 plus L10. Again, Mr Laudát's proposal, when amendments are proposed in § 83 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 4 (1) (a) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. In substance, it is an increase in the number of members of the Board of Accreditation Office to 21, as a general rule professors and lecturers. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u122	I've begun the vote on order 118. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118, from 180 present for 22, against 112. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u123	We will remain with Mr Laudát's amendment now. This is a L7 plus L11 vote, which governs § 83a para. 4 and inserts a new part of the third, amendment of the Wage Act with representatives of state authority, substantively regulates the remuneration of members of the Board of Accreditation Office, sets out the law, not the government, plus a specific proposal. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u124	I've started the vote with order number 119, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119, from 180 in favour of 52, against 111. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u125	Another proposal by my colleague - last one - Laudát, vote on L. The new paragraph 5 is inserted in Section 83b. It is, in substance, a more strongly formulated independence of the members of the Board of Accreditation Bodies, the incompatibility of any activity at a university, with the exception of teaching on the basis of agreements outside the employment relationship, with the exercise of the office of Chairman or Vice-President of the Board. Other members of the Board shall not endanger other activities with confidence in the independence and impartiality of the accreditation body.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u126	I've started a 120-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 120, from the present 180 for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u127	We will now vote on the M1 which is Mrs Dobešová's amendment. It is a modification of § 68 para. 1. It is, in substance, an explicit anchoring of the possibility of a university to recognise exams or other study obligations from higher vocational schools. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u128	I've started the vote with order number 121, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 121, from 180 in favour of 117, against 40. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u129	Voting on M2. We will remain with Mrs Dobešová's amendment again. This is a modification of § 78a. It is, in substance, an extension of the standards for the accreditation of the study programme to specific requirements for study programmes carried out in a foreign language in cooperation with foreign universities and to study programmes for which study obligations from higher vocational schools are recognised. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u130	I've started the vote on order 122 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 122, 180 for 1, against 134. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u131	The N1 vote, which is Mr Tejc's amendment. Edits § 60a. It is relevant - internationally recognized courses to open also for students and graduates of Czech universities, not only foreign, as is the case according to the current wording of the law. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u132	I've started the vote on order number 123 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123, 180 for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u133	Now the vote on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u134	But I will ask if all the amendments tabled are exhausted. All those who tabled the amendment respect the fact that the rapporteur has exhausted all the amendments? [[No objections.]] Of course, those that were a contradiction could not vote. So I actually declare all the amendments exhausted. And since the proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions on the Amendment and Supplement to other Acts, as amended, and some other Acts, pursuant to the House Press No. 464, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Higher education law]] I've started voting number 124 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 124 - 180 for 139, compared to 15. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 143. Before we go any further, I will read the apology received from the Chamber of Deputies. From 14.30 until the end of the meeting, Mr Adam Rykala apologises for health reasons. From 12 to 14.30, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for working reasons, from 12.00 to 14.30 he apologizes for working reasons, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová. Mrs Věra Kovářová also apologizes from 12.30 to 13.00. On the contrary, Mr Stanislav Grospič cancels his apology from this afternoon's meeting. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] My colleague Sklenák reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman. - But wait a minute, Mr. Chairman, I'll calm the House down. I know it has been difficult, long-awaited, but I still think it is necessary for the House to hear you calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u135	Thank you. I would like to propose, on behalf of the two MPs - ČSSD and YES 2011 - that we should act today and vote on all proposals in terms of terms and procedures after 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u136	Yes, I understood the procedural proposal. Before we start the next item, we will be voting on the proposal from the President of the Social Democracy Club, who proposed negotiations and procedural votes on the laws after 19.00 on behalf of the two members. We will decide by the following vote, but I will sign you all off before that, because some of my fellow Members have left the House. I'm asking for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will run the gong so that colleagues and colleagues know that we will decide on this procedural proposal. And since the number of applicants is stabilizing, I'm opening the vote on order number 125, and I'm asking who's in favour of the meeting after 7:00. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 125, of the 162 Members present for 85, against 63, the proposal was adopted. It means we're still going to act today after 7:00 p.m. Thank you. I will now hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-001-143.u137	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The next item in our meeting today is:
