ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 50th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Bartošek Jan - foreign travel, Bohdalová Vlasta - personal reasons, Černý Alexander - working reasons, Dobešová Ivana - foreign travel, Farskýý Jan until 16.30 hours - working reasons, Fiala Radim - working reasons, Heger Leoš within 17.30 hours - working reasons, Junek Jiří - personal reasons, Klaška Jaroslav - working reasons, Klučka Václav - foreign travel, Koskuba Jiří - health reasons, Kostřica Rom - personal reasons, Kovářová Věra from 18.00 - personal reasons, Nováková Nina - working reasons, Novotný Martin - personal reasons, Nykl Igor - health reasons, Schwarzenberg Karel - working reasons, skalickýý Jiří - working reasons, Šincl Ladislav - foreign travel, Vondrášek Josef - personal reasons, Zemánek Jiří - working reasons. With the replacement card number 26, Mr Vondráček and Mr Kasal 31 will be voting today. The following members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Sobotka Bohuslav - working reasons, Babiš Andrej - foreign travel, Dienstbier Jiří - working reasons, chovanec Milan - working reasons, Jurečka Marian up to 15.00 hours - working reasons, Němeček Svatopluk - working reasons, Ťok Dan - working reasons, Valachová Kateřina - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - foreign trip. That was an apology. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to remain calm, because I would now like to introduce you to the conclusions of today's meeting with the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and representatives of the MPs. We propose this procedure: on Wednesday, 9 November, we discuss firmly ranked points from the third reading block and other points from this block up to 14.00 hours. Before lunch, we will discuss the election point, at about 14.00, and this is a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies to appoint a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, round two. We would open the afternoon negotiations at 3:30 p.m. and discuss first points 38, House press 869, capital market, first reading, and 39, House press 877, packaging, first reading. After that, we would continue to apply paragraphs 131 and 122 firmly, and further we would place point 86, House press 596, value added tax, first reading). That's all on my side. If there is no objection, I will vote on the proposals from the Gremium at once. I don't see any objection, so at this point, I'm going to vote on a proposal from the Gremium. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 227, registered 129 present, for 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now I remind you that at today's meeting we have already firmly ranked points in this order: paragraphs 149, 145, 4 and 111. Furthermore, we would eventually continue with the points from the first reading block. And now I'm asking if there are proposals to change the program. First, with priority rights, the chairman of the club YES, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u2	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, allow me, on behalf of our membership club, to propose a solid inclusion of a point, namely number 165, it is press 932, the so-called Paris Agreement, on Thursday this week, 10. 11., as the second fixed point after replies to written interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u3	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Opálka's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to begin by saying that President Faltýnek did not speak with priority rights, but with the proposal, and he did not have priority, so he was to be included. But let him. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Dear colleagues, the Constitution of the Czech Republic provides for Article 41 (2) of the Act. 2 the right that a bill may also be filed by a Member or a group of Members. However, I must say that neither the Constitution nor any other law guarantees that this draft must be dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in Section 50, which governs the scope of the House, state in point (a) that the House is discussing draft laws but does not determine their order in the first reading according to the date of delivery or the numbers of the House press. Thus, with the application of Section 54 of this Act, the agenda of meetings is still being adjusted, the government's proposals are moving forward and a number of MPs are constantly failing. There are 956 bills registered in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u5	Ambassador, I apologize, and I ask that you interrupt your speech until the House calms down. [[He's waiting.]] I beg the House to remain calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u6	I don't think we'll see, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u7	We'll see if you can hold on, and I'll ring the bell in a minute, if it's not quiet... There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u8	Thank you. It is now being discussed in the first reading of the House Press 903, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Labour Code, and other government proposals are also envisaged at this meeting, i.e. after the House Press 930. In doing so, 94 parliamentary proposals with lower numbers starting with the press - Parliament's Press 166 from TOP 09 workshop are waiting for discussion of this meeting. In order to be completely fair, I must admit that the conduct of the right-wing opposition also contributes to this situation, and that the same situation prevailed in previous parliamentary periods. The newly listed opposition windows did not fundamentally resolve the situation. The problem is more serious than it may appear to us, as I also demonstrate the noise in this House. Most of the MEP's reminiscent proposals have no chance of being discussed by the end of the parliamentary term, and thus the constitutional right of a Member becomes inconvenient and only formal. So I ask myself: how would the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic deal with this practice when submitting a complaint? [[14.10 hours]] Before we try this option, I also use paragraph 54, paragraphs 5 and 8 thereof, and I suggest that tomorrow afternoon, after the already fixed points of printing no. 392 of 23 January 2015, paragraph 69. As a group of Members of the KSČM, we propose the abolition of the ceiling for multi-income groups of fellow citizens on social security contributions and on the contribution to state employment policy, similar to the recently abolished ceilings for general insurance contributions. It is in favour of solidarity, it is in favour of the state budget. [[There's a lot of restlessness in the room.]] It is already my third attempt in various parliamentary periods. And I see that the current government has also opposed him. Yet I really want to try to explain to you that solidarity, which has its roots in families and in the development of morality and values in continental Europe, has its mission and needs to be defended against crude neoliberalism, egoism and excessive concentration of chosen individuals on their own interests and benefits. For some time now, the world has been discussing the immoral incomes of high elites. On the contrary, in the Czech Republic, the abolition of progressive taxation and the introduction of the ceiling resulted in overall degressive taxation of high-income groups. I therefore consider that legislation should not, under the cape of unilateral justice, contribute to the departure from the principle of the welfare state and thus contribute to a slow gradual return to the overcome principles of social Darwinism. Thank you to those who listened. I thank those who will vote in favour for their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u9	Thank you. Today, Mr Koubek and Mrs Strnadlová are voting today with a replacement card number 54 for the tape - with a replacement card number 22. Now, please, to Mr. Karel Fiedler's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u10	[[Restlessness in the room doesn't stop.]] We'll wait a while. Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I submit a proposal for a point to be included in the agenda of the meeting, a request from the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to investigate suspicions of possible offences committed by constitutional agents. I'll really wait until it's a little quieter. [[The president is ringing to calm down in the hall.]] Thank you. In recent days and weeks, we have seen very controversial events and facts about President Zeman and Minister Herman's dispute. However, we did not see a reliable explanation of this case - let us call it the Brady cause. The alleged suspicions, but rather the accusations between the various constitutional actors in this case are, in my view, so serious and essential that not only the public but, above all, the legislators of the Chamber of Deputies should demand clarification. If I rely on the claims of individual stakeholders in this case, there could be a breach of several paragraphs of the Criminal Code and of the Conflict of Interest Act. If President Zeman made the award of state honors conditional on Mr Brady's not accepting the Tibetan Dalai Lama, he could have been blackmailed by Minister Herman, threatening to cause the loss of honours to a relative of the Minister. In such a case, I would expect Minister Herman to, in accordance with our legal order, make a notification to the prosecutor or the police authority, so as to prevent the commission of this crime, or to allow it to be documented, if the offence is also a criminal offence and if the criminal code so does not provide. I guess my colleagues don't really care what's going on with us. [[The discussion in the benches continues.]] However, since I do not expect, or am not too inclined to believe in the criminal activity of the President of the Czech Republic, Minister Herman could then commit a criminal offence of perjury, namely the President of the Czech Republic. There could have been a breach of the law on conflict of interest by not notifying the Minister's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's/Master's relationship to the present case, respectively. Things. Given that this case affects our country's high-ranking constitutional actors, I consider it most necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to assess and consider the possibility of submitting an initiative to the competent authorities to initiate proceedings on this matter so that, if necessary, each of us does not have to report this suspicion separately. I find it unacceptable for one of the high-ranking constitutional officials to remain the shadow of an unexplained and unexplained suspicion. Exactly in the spirit of the principle of "fall to whom?" I don't care which parties to the dispute might be affected by any violation of the law. The suspicions and uncertainties of this case also underline the turnaround in the intention to make the government's record available on how negotiations with the Dalai Lama will take place, and to clarify another contradiction, this time in the arguments between Ministers Zaorálk and Herman. According to the so far known, it's obvious that one of them just wasn't telling the truth. And I think that not only me but also the citizens would be very interested in which of these two it was, exactly as it was at the outset in the aforementioned dispute between President Zeman and Minister Herman. I therefore submit to the House a proposal for the inclusion of a point The request of the Chamber of Deputies to the District Attorney for Prague 1 to investigate the suspicion that there might have been an act of extortion by the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, or perjured by Minister Daniel Herman, or possibly slanders by the Head of the Protocol of the Office of the President of the Republic by Canadian citizen Georg Brady and his wife, or other crimes in this so called. Brady's case. Since I am limited to five minutes, I will not read the motion for a resolution whole because it follows, I think, from my proposal and the justification for including this point. I am of the opinion that this case should not go to waste, because if it is evident that some of the parties involved were not telling the truth, and they are high constitutional officials, we should insist that not only we as Members but also citizens learn the true truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, but in your written application there is also a request for a firm inclusion of this point as the first day. Isn't that right? With another application for Mr. Karel Fiedler's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u12	Thank you. It'll be shorter now. I would propose to include one more item entitled Communication by Minister Kateřina Valachová on failure to meet the deadline for submitting the concept of language education to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. On 30 June, as part of the written interpelations to the Houses of Presses 803 and 826 - 803 was the interpellation of Ms Jana Fischerová and 826 was my interpellation, both of which were very similar in terms of content, and that is why they were joined together - Minister Valachová said the following. I quote: The concept of language education will be presented to you in October at the latest - and I am now passing a bit and continuing to quote - and I believe that I will convince you in October with this material. So much quote from Secretary Valachová's statement at the time. I add that, at my explicit request, after the precise appointment of the Minister's term, the date was 31 October, the date by which it would be submitted. [[There's disproportionate noise in the room.]] However, I think, Madam President, that it would really be good to ensure a more dignified environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u13	I will ask my colleagues to keep their voices down, to sit in their seats, and if they have anything to say to each other, to do so in the lobby and not disturb the speaker in the speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u14	I must say that the Minister did not even convince us with this material and unfortunately did not surprise us, I mean after previous experience, because no proposal has officially been submitted and sent to the Chamber of Deputies, apart from some preliminary concept of the proposal, which was, in fact, rather a copy and a lift from earlier texts from various materials. To date the material for the concept of language education has not been discussed in the consultation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and according to the information I have, its discussion was even withdrawn from the program last week. At this point, even after the long term, it would be easy to say that the promise of many years is not clear the binding nature of the Ministry of Education's material to the concept of language education, and the Ministry is not going to address anything again. It is unclear how the concept will be financed, when and what challenges will finally be announced. In the debate that took place on 30 June on the interpellation of my colleague Fischerová, which I was talking about, I warned the Minister that if they worked on the concept, respectively. rather not work, still the same people, hard to see the concept, and it came to my words. Now the Minister of Education has definitely joined these non-criminal persons as well. Perhaps my performance and the entirely justified criticism of repeated non-compliance will be a material inspiration for Prime Minister Sobotka when he considers and evaluates who the people of his team are exhausted and does not fulfill their tasks, even after many repeated criticisms. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u15	Thank you. Now please, with the priority right of Minister Mládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey the following for the record and for the next meeting. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has submitted a House press of 936, which is a law on measures to reduce the costs of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks and amending certain related laws. We had an idea that it would be discussed at first reading tomorrow. The preliminary agreement of all clubs was that it would not be the veto, but there was a formal lack that, according to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the law had to be submitted ten days before the meeting began, not ten days before it was proposed. I would like to say that I respect this interpretation, and I would like to ask that this law be placed first at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Okamura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and representative of the European Union signed a trade and economic agreement CETA in Brussels a week ago, which also affects the Czech Republic. This is a fundamental comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the countries of the European Union governing the conditions for free trade and respect for copyright. A similar fundamental treaty called TTIP is going to be between the European Union and the US, and once again the public is not familiar with the content of this absolutely fundamental agreement, although some provisions seem to have fatal consequences. The CETA contract was approved by the Czech Government on 12 October. However, the signing of the contract subsequently stalled in Belgium on the veto of the Valonian Parliament. I must say that, even though I had been following the process of approving the CETA contract, at that point I tried to remember when the Czech Parliament approved the contract. Personally, I don't remember, and since the Valon made last-minute adjustments to the text, it couldn't have happened. What's more? Of course, the last version of the agreement was not approved by the Czech Government, let alone by the Czech Parliament, at the request of Belgium. I therefore ask, on behalf of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD to include an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which is called the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the countries of the European Union. I asked my advisors whether the Czech Government had the right to sign such a treaty and circumvent Parliament. The answer was: No one can judge this because no one knows the specific officially approved text, and therefore it is not publicly available anywhere. The information we have on the contract suggests that it may contain a provision in which the Czech Republic waives the possibility of judicial review of commercial contracts and other obligations and gives this power only to private arbiters, as for example the NAFTA agreement between the USA, Mexico and Canada imposes. In practice, this means a pretty trivial position for Canada today, when American companies dictate to the Canadian government, and when they refuse to market certain types of goods, such as ineffective fraudulent drugs, they must pay bold fines. Not to mention Mexico. The NAFTA Treaty brought American genetically modified corn to the Mexican market, destroyed Mexican production, and today it is from Mexico, corn exporter, U.S. corn importer and national crop, and basic food is the most expensive in history in Mexico. And we, citizens' representatives, should be very serious here in the House, asking what our government has signed for us, secretly, without any information to the public, or at least to Parliament. Did she even have a right to do that? And how is it that Brusel has signed a new treaty without being approved again by the Member States of the European Union? Have we really lost the last remnants of state sovereignty? Today, my fellow Members, I ask you, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, to include the CETA Treaty as an item of the agenda for our meeting. This is also important from the point of view that, as the next step, the European Union is preparing to adopt the TTIP Treaty, which is the Treaty on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the US and the European Union. And as I have already said, these are a number of very problematic points that can very much harm the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The Government should inform Parliament of the content of the CETA contract. It should make the entire official translation of the contract publicly available on the Internet and explain how it is possible that the final text of the contract, signed for the European Union, i.e. also for the Czech Republic, was not approved by the Czech Parliament or the Czech Government, but only by officials in Brussels. We should know whether the contract does not actually contain passages that would undermine the sovereignty of the decision-making of the Czech Republic regarding the authorisation of goods that conflict with Czech legislation. And I ask whether it is true that the CETA Treaty also contains parts of the provisions relating to copyright and its enforcement, which according to available sources are almost identical to those contained in the controversial ACTA agreement, which was recently rejected by the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, people throughout Europe and the United States protest this type of contract, and I think it absolutely contradicts democracy to be approved by several officials in Brussels behind our backs, citizens of the Czech Republic. I therefore ask once again, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, for the inclusion of an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which is called the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the countries of the European Union, including the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Mládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u20	Madam Members, I would like, through Madam President, to propose to Mr Okamura. It's not true that the government didn't approve of the CETA agreement. The Government approved the CETA Treaty, including any declarations relating to this Treaty, because one thing is the Treaty itself, and the other is the explanatory statement that was made. Nor is it true that the treaty is classified. The contract is not on the website of the Ministry of Industry and Trade at this time, because there is a transition from a new version to another version, but it is on another website - Businessinfo. The contract has 1,558 pages. So I don't see why we shouldn't proceed as planned. The contract is now approved, it is public. And then it will be done as it goes with these treaties, that Parliament will have them for discussion, of course it will have the entire treaty available as the House press, it will receive impact studies, and then the ratification process will be carried out. As far as TTIP is concerned, the TTIP agreement will clearly not be dealt with under the Obamův administration. And assuming that it will be hit before the CETA contract is very unrealistic. CETA was negotiated from the Czech Presidency in the European Union in 2009 in principle until October of this year. The TTIP Treaty has been negotiated for three years and I would like to say with full responsibility that the duration of the TTIP contract will be longer than that of the CETAP, which is incomparably simpler than that of the EU and the United States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u21	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Zahradník's mike. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come up with a proposal to remove a point with order number 184, which is House Press 501, the amendment to Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, on the agenda of today's current meeting. On this proposal, I would like to state three reasons. First of all, this law is being dragged disproportionately for a long time. We've been dealing with it for actually a whole second year, and it can be proof that there's something wrong with the law. It was actually presented on the basis of the background and pressure of environmentalists, scientists, environmental activists. What other contexts are involved in this, it is not possible to identify or recognize directly what interests the law should fulfil. It is quite a clear refusal to react between the inhabitants of Šumava, the Šumava municipalities, their municipalities and the mayors and the two regions, both the Pilsen Region and the South Bohemian Region, have also responded negatively. I am saying this very deliberately and very deliberately, because we all know that this is actually the law on Sumava, that all this talk about it being a law that should define the new conservation of nature is not true. It is a law that should introduce wilderness in the territory of the National Park of Šumava. Otherwise, the existing law on conservation of nature and landscape works well. National parks are also based on either law or government regulation, they work satisfactorily, national park authorities meet, their administration works. That's why I don't think there's much pressure. That is why I think that this law should be ruled out. Furthermore, I think that it would be necessary to let the newly elected regional council elected in the elections a month ago discuss these laws, get to know them and also take their position in their new composition. And finally, third. My third reason is purely procedural. This law is proposed for discussion on Friday as the first point, but given that we already have two extraordinary meetings that can take place all Friday morning, and this important law should come to you at the end of that day, so I think it would be a good thing at this point to eliminate this law, this point, from the meeting. Therefore, I propose that item 184 be removed from the agenda of the current meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u23	I'll thank you and ask Mrs. Bebarová Rujbrová for the microphone. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u24	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Hello, colleagues. It is confirmed that in this House, some are equal and others are more equal. This is confirmed not only in the possibility of exercising the right to a priority speech, when a member of the family waits for his contribution sometimes until he loses his current status, as well as when discussing bills, as my colleague Opálka has already said. The draft law on legal aid, a law which the Government has also in its legislative plan, and until today it has not been able to process it and has been submitted by a collective of Members, has a number of the House press 390. I'm sure you'll realize that it's been more than a year since you've been sitting on your desk and havingn't been discussed at first reading. It is currently classified as point 68. I dare to propose a pre-position of this bill, virtually. his firm appointment for tomorrow afternoon after now firmly ranked points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u25	Thank you, Madame. Now, please, to Mr Luzar's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u26	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return here to the point that has already been raised and discussed over this House, unfortunately it has not reached its successful conclusion and remains hanging during the meeting in the course of the closed negotiations. I'm talking about the issue of OKD. Many of you will probably have to put your mind to the point of reopening this issue. However, I think that the situation that has arisen requires Parliament to discuss this point and order the government to take appropriate action. What I'm dealing with. We are told that OKD lawyers inform the insolvency administrator about - pardonfully - the thievings that have been carried out in the past in the OKD operation. We learn about the pressure that was done on OKD by NWR as a parent company to conclude disadvantageous contracts, disadvantageous loans and other issues that burdened this subsidiary in the order of billions of crowns with disadvantageous loans. At the same time, we learn that Mr Bakala, who has so far owned mostly OKD, is fleeing Europe. We are told that he is quick to sell his assets in Ukraine, we are told that he is selling shares in his company LBM, which deals in luxury goods here on Paris Street, that he is looking for buyers at Economia and the Forum Karlín administration complex, where the publishing house is based. On the other hand, we learn that he is very interested in trading in South Africa. In other words, I translate it - Mr Bakala is afraid and is running from the justice of the European Union and the Czech Republic. From this point of view and from the information that has penetrated the media in recent days, it is that the NWR is voluntarily going into liquidation and that it will actually end without any resources, without any possibility to solve its daughter's financial problems, the owners of OKD are trying to escape responsibility. All the more I regret that the Czech Government is delaying the solution it promised to do to the miners and leaving them in the air, waiting for the administrator to decide. I consider this to be a pretty big mistake, and I would very much like the government to face it, to inform us of the steps that are being taken, to inform us about the state of the investigation conducted by the anti-corruption police in this company, and also to inform us about what they intend to do in dealing with the unhappy situation of the employees of the OKD. Therefore, I would like to propose point 255 of the OKD, which has already been discussed but has not been completed, to include at 10. 11th Thursday as the second, firmly placed point. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u27	I thank you and now please with the priority right of the Chairman of the TOP 09 party, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, for delaying, but given the way the public debate has been going on in recent weeks, I do not consider it possible to leave some statements without correction. Mr Luzar has proposed this point with the conclusion that, at the end of it, The Chamber of Deputies should have imposed appropriate action on the government. The government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies controls, approves or does not approve of its laws. The Chamber of Deputies can voice distrust to the government and thus force it to resign, but it cannot impose anything on it. She can only recommend it. These are the tiny nuances of the fine brakes and the fuse of our democratic system, which we are still very difficult and neck-deeply learning to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u29	Thank you, and please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u30	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask, on behalf of the ODS political club, for the inclusion of a point called Government Information on Air Rescue from January 2017 and in subsequent years. What makes me say that? The construction of air rescue services in the Czech Republic took more than 20 years. A functional system has been found in which the army, police and private operators are complementary and avoided serious events such as. in Slovakia. But now incompetence and politics have begun and there is a risk that the functional system will fall apart, become inefficient and risky for patients. Everyone knows for a long time that contracts with private operators end on 31 December 2016 and that this will not be a trivial tender, but Minister Němeček underestimated everything and, moreover, the Minister of Finance Babiš again entered into his competence. The result is so called. a compromise that is bad because it destroys what works will be more expensive and will allow for further non-transparency and distribution of smugglers. Firstly, the selection procedure was not issued until May and it was very likely from the outset that the result would be challenged, as it was a rather complicated selection procedure. This has now happened and the objections are addressed by the Office for the Protection of Competition. We have the beginning of November and from January 2017 to fly four of the ten new operators, but there are still no new contracts. Material produced on 24 October - emergency medical doctors say that for adequate, let's understand for patients safe, take over the habitats and run new crews up to eight months. Doctors report: Disrespecting the proposed preparatory procedures and shortening the preparatory period would necessarily lead to a reduction in the quality of care provided and, above all, to a significant increase in safety risks for patients and crews of medical rescue services helicopters. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no other way to call this an unprecedented gamble with the lives of patients on the part of the Minister of Health. Secondly, the compromise reached by this coalition is less effective than the current system. Why? For example, because the air rescue service operated by the military and police is more expensive, and yet they will serve two extra stations. Specifically, the flight hour of the Sokol helicopter stands at approximately CZK 160,000, while the privates provide it for CZK 130,000. Thirdly, the compromise included the development of material The proposal for a solution to air rescue security after 2020. We could have read about him in the paper. The experts who have seen it are shaking their heads because they are clearly carrying out the assignment that the air rescue service is to operate a state enterprise. The calculations are so sloppy that it is necessary to ask whether Mr. Babiš would let something like this happen in his company, even if it were family. The army and the police are to withdraw again to two stations from four post 2020. So after they build their capacity, after a few years, everything will return to their current state? But most importantly, it says here that the establishment of a state enterprise will be more effective, but the actual calculation in the material speaks of the opposite. It calculates the cost of one unit operated by a state enterprise to more than CZK 45 million, and if we average the offers of private companies from the selection procedure, we will ensure that they are willing to operate one unit for less than CZK 44 million. However, this would not be necessary to buy new helicopters according to estimates for CZK 1.6 billion, to get pilots, mechanics, etc. and also split the vacant posts of directors and deputy ministers. Nicely arranged, colleagues in the coalition. You preach water, and you drink wine. I believe that this is such a serious issue that we should be dealing with it, just because we were able to learn from the media today that Mr. Němeček and I are nodding at the chair and that it is likely that it will end. The new minister, if he gets into that position sometime in December, will surely have a lot on his mind to deal with this first. Yes, it does. The lives of ten million citizens of the Czech Republic are at stake. For this reason, on behalf of the ODS, I ask for the inclusion of this item entitled Government Information on Air Rescue from January 2017 and, in the following years, on Thursday, 10 November at 11.00 or after fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u31	Thank you, Madame, and please to the microphone of Mr Vilímec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u32	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to reload the fixed inclusion of paragraph 19. This is the second reading of the Parliamentary Press 403, the draft amendment to the Act on the mitigation of certain property grievances to citizens of the Czech Republic for the real estate they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi, the first point of today after the already firmly placed points. I merely point out that the proposal is signed by Members across the political spectrum. The discussion of this proposal was already concluded at first reading and also at second reading in the committees in June. The Constitutional Committee has even tabled an amendment at second reading, probably one more proposal will be loaded. We really need to deal with this press in some reasonable time. Therefore, I appeal to you several times, and more or less please, fellow Members, to support the firm inclusion of this press. There is a gradual decline in potential beneficiaries who have already died in the meantime, and there is a need to decide on possible adjustments to the law, which contains certain illogicalities in certain matters, at least in those matters which need to be clearly changed. I believe that discussing this press at second reading will not require that much time. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now, please, to Mr. Velebný's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for a solid inclusion of paragraph 134, House Press 857, Garden Law, on Wednesday 9. 11 pm after already firmly placed points. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-000-000.u35	Thank you. These were all proposals to change the agenda. We will deal with the individual proposals. First, we would vote on Mr Faltýnek's proposal, namely the solid inclusion of paragraph 165 on Thursday 10. 11. as the second point after fixed points, after written interpelations. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 228. Registered 164 present, for 131, against 14. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is Mr Opálka's proposal, and that is paragraph 69, House press 392, on Wednesday 9. 11. for fixed points in the afternoon program. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 229, to which 165 are registered, for 40, against 89. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Fiedler's proposal to include a new item in the request from the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the suspicions of the possible commission of the crimes of constitutional officials and their inclusion at 8. 11) as the first item in the Rules of Procedure. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 230, to which 165 are registered, for 5, against 117. The motion was denied. [[14.50 hours]] The next proposal to be addressed is also from Mr Fiedler, and it is the inclusion of a new point in the Communication by the Minister of Education on failure to meet the deadline for submitting the Concept of Language Education and its inclusion at 10. 11:00 p.m. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 231 registered 165 present, for 36, against 84. The motion was denied. The next proposal we will be looking at is Mr Okamura's proposal, and it is the inclusion of a new item in the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the comprehensive economic agreement between Canada and the members of the European Union. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 232, to which 164 are registered, for 41, against 72. The motion was denied. Another proposal to be addressed is the proposal by Mr Zahradník to remove the already approved item on the agenda. It is paragraph 184, House Press 501, conservation of nature and landscape. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 233, to which 164 are registered, for 45, against 87. The motion was denied. We will now consider Mrs Rujbrová Rujbr's proposal, and this is a re-routing of the item already approved by the agenda, it is House Press 390, paragraph 68, the bill on legal aid, and there is a request to place it on 9. 11 p.m. after fixed points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 234, to which 165 are registered, for 72, against 61. The motion was denied. We will now look at Mr Luzar's proposal, which proposes the reposition of paragraph 255, i.e. OKD situation, at 10. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 235, to which 165 are registered, for 80, against 63. The motion was denied. The next proposal we will be looking at is Mrs Černochová's proposal, and it is the inclusion of a new item in the Government's Information on Air Rescue Service from January 2017 onwards. And we have two options, so we're going to vote twice. The first option is to add this new point to 10. 11:00 p.m. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 236, 165 registered, 79, 62. The motion was denied. Now we're going to look at the second option, and that's the addition of this point after the fixed points to 10. 11. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 237, 165 registered, 76 against 58. The motion was denied. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to do so and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. At this point, we will consider Mr Vilímec's proposal, and this is a solid inclusion of paragraph 19, which is the second reading of the House's 403, compensation for the loss of property in Podkarpatská Rus. There is a request for his inclusion today on 8 November following the already firmly ranked points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 238, 161 registered for 53 against 67. This proposal was rejected. The last proposal we are going to address is Mr Velebný's proposal. It is a firm classification of paragraph 134, House press 857, gardening law, if you allow it to shorten, and its inclusion to 9. 11 p.m. after fixed points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 239, to which 163 are registered, for 120, against 23. This proposal was adopted. We have thus dealt with the proposals for adjusting the agenda for the meeting. Allow me to load Mr Šarapatka's apology from today's and tomorrow's negotiations on a business trip. And now we will proceed to discussing points according to the approved program. The first point we're going to be dealing with today is the point
