ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of farm animals and amending certain related laws (the breeding law), as amended /German press 616/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Daniel Herman will present this press. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u2	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, to present the Government's bill amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of livestock and amending certain related laws, i.e. the so-called breeding law, as amended. The aim of the proposed bill is to adjust the conditions for ensuring a higher guarantee of the Ministry of Agriculture for the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture in selected breeds and species of animals. In order to preserve the genetic diversity of these species and animal breeds, the Ministry of Agriculture announced in 1995 the so-called National Conservation Programme and the use of animal genetic resources important for nutrition and agriculture. The National Programme is designed in such a way that its objectives and objectives are also consistent with the international legal framework in this area, that is to say, the Convention on Biological Diversity and the methodologies of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. More than 30 breeds or species of animals that have historically been on our territory are now included in the national programme. These animals do not belong to the main production breeds used in today's intensive agricultural production, but they are particularly distinguished by maintaining their original characteristics, such as longevity, resistance to external conditions and diseases, optimal use of local food sources or natural and trouble-free reproductive capacity. These are characteristics that we often lack in modern breeds of animals bred only for intensive production of animal commodities. Thus, genetic resources of animals may in future form an important basis for breeding activities, improving the health status of production breeds, developing alternative forms of agriculture in rural areas, ensuring food and other human needs, in particular in the context of changing climate conditions and other environmental components. [[16.30 hours]] The proposed legislation therefore sets out, overall, the conditions for the operation and administration of the abovementioned national programme. The proposed amendment to the breeding act specifies in particular the definitions relating to the issue of animal genetic resources, sets out transparent conditions for the inclusion of all participants in the national programme, sets out all the rights, roles and obligations of all participants in the national programme from owners of animals to breeders' associations, gene banks, national programme coordinator to the Ministry of Agriculture. It regulates the procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture and the conditions under which decisions on inclusion in the national programme can be amended or repealed. Last but not least, it also lays down conditions for the storage of genetic and biological material in gene banks and the provision of material from such facilities to third parties. The Ministry of Agriculture believes that the current legislation is inadequate for further administration and development of the national programme. If the law had not been amended, for example, three major problems that we are facing today would not be solved. Firstly, the Ministry of Agriculture would continue to have to formally include not only animal owners but also all animals that correspond to the definition of genetic resource in the national programme. This is not really possible in practice because the number of animals at the request of one owner can also be in hundreds of pieces. The Ministry does not have the possibility to verify the validity and up-to-date of the list of animals on the application, because the central database is called. the genetic resources of animals do not exist. The amendment therefore proposes formally to include in the national programme in most cases only a natural or legal person who is the owner of the genetic source of the animal. The obligation to register the animals themselves, which correspond to the definition of the genetic resource, is then already on the breeding associations concerned. Secondly, the ownership of reproductive and biological material stored in gene banks would not be determined, nor would it be determined direct responsibility for the preservation of this valuable material for any future use. Thirdly, the Ministry of Agriculture should no longer be able to correct in exceptional cases a situation where there is a significant loss of genetic diversity within a particular genetic line or whole breed, although it is the national programme's proclaimer, is responsible at national and international level for the fulfilment of its objectives and provides animal owners and breeding associations with subsidies for the conservation and exploitation of genetic resources. The Government Bill was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 33rd meeting of 23 June 2016 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government Bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted are in line with the concept of the petitioner, they will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 616/1. I'm gonna ask you, colleagues, to keep it down. Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Petr Bendl, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I can only say that the agricultural committee has properly discussed this material and recommended that it discuss it together with the amendments on which I believe it will subsequently express itself as a guarantee committee. I don't think there's much more to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Pavera will be the first to speak and Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u6	Nice and pleasant almost evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to present to you an amendment which is registered under number 4613 and which concerns precisely the Government's draft law amending Act No No. 154/2000 Coll., on breeding, breeding and registration of livestock and amending certain related laws. The first amendment, the amendment, concerns § 12 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) which should sound right "the foals born after insemination or after the transfer of embryos and foals of breeds for which the breed book is kept in the Czech Republic". Justification: According to the above draft text, paternality would be carried out on all born animals registered in breeding books recognised by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic and in the Czech Republic kept. It's about a thoroughbred and a squirrel. The paternity carried out in all animals would contribute to the reduction of black breeding, which is particularly developed in horse breeding. This problem is also addressed in the concept of horse breeding. For the right result of breeding, the guarantee of the right origin is very important. Due to the number of born foals every year, both capacity and operational assurance of the paternality of all foals is not feasible. As regards the second amendment, Section 14g para. 4 which should read: " ((4) The material stored in the genebance is intended for long-term preservation and for use in the case of research, testing or renewal of genetic diversity, evaluation or regeneration of the species or breed of the genetic source of the animal with the consent of the owner." Reason: Owner's ownership rights shall sufficiently cover the text of paragraph 1. Article 2 (2) of the Agreement between the owner of the genetic material and the designated person in which the owner can protect his rights. So much for the amendments I am proposing, and the explanatory reports on these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u7	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Bendl, in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. I want to say that I absolutely respect the reasons for which this bill is presented at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. Because seemingly irrelevant law is really important for the food future in the Czech Republic, that we need to take care of trends that are, especially in genetics, care and care. And it is a good thing that this law is being negotiated by the Chamber of Deputies, even though it took a very long time to get on the table. I will briefly justify my amendment and then, in a detailed debate, I will just sign up to it. I propose that Article 5 (5) (a) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. 1 release the text "or, in the case of an old-fashioned horse, the Ministry will recognise the National stud Kladruby nad Labem state contribution organization, at his request." [[hereinafter referred to as the National Stallion]] And also delete the text "The conditions for recognition referred to in points H and I do not apply to the National stud.". What is the substance of this amendment? Until the 1990s, the national stallion, whose position of disadvantageous private breeder is guaranteed by the applicable wording of the law, was the majority owner of the old-fashioned horse breed in the Czech Republic and at the time of the creation of the law, this provision was in accordance with the conditions necessary to preserve the existence of this exceptional horse breed. In 2000, the number of horses kept by private breeders was equal to the number of horses kept in the national stallion and is currently held by private owners of more than 60 percent of all old-fashioned horses. In the Czech Republic it was 31. 12. 2014 bred 1 746 old-fashioned horses, of which 1 307 in private possession, in the national stallion thus only 439. Which, given the state's efforts to develop this exceptional breed, is certainly good news. [[16.40 hours]] Therefore, the current wording of the law no longer corresponds to the situation and is discriminatory to the breeders of the ancient horses, and therefore I propose this amendment of the law, which actually compares all stud books and the handling of stud books to the same of all others, because in the private possession of the hands of the ancient horsemen, the Lord is paying God more and there is no need to pay such exceptional attention to him that the entire administration of this book to the ancient horse as such does only and only the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u9	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see an application. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur want to take the final floor. It's not like that. I will therefore now launch a detailed debate. I'm filing two applications. Mr. Pavera will be the first to appear. The rapporteur Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u10	Thank you. I am merely signing up for my amendments, which are listed in Register No. 4613. In the general debate, I have justified the two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u11	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u12	Thank you for the floor. I now want to formally sign up for the amendment registered under House document 3823. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-006-007.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. Thank you and I finish second reading of this proposal. I am opening another point on today's day, and that is
