ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u1	226. Proposal for the operation of the Aeronautical Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in the period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018 in total up to 35 persons /German press 761/ I ask the Minister of Defence to present this press to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, before I begin with my introductory word, I would just like to thank you for being kind enough to place that point again. At the same time, I would like to assure you that I do not despise this assembly or others, and that the point was originally, but most of you probably know that it was placed on Thursday, then due to the extraordinary meeting tomorrow translated to today, Wednesday, the hour when I had a long-term appointment with the President, with whom I could not do anything, move, change etc. Just to be clear. Now for the proposal itself. I, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, submit a proposal on the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq, which was approved by the Government on 30 March this year by Resolution 276. It is proposed to send the Air Advisory Team to the Republic of Iraq from the date of approval of the proposal by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018. The task of the advisory team will be mentoring, i.e. training of Iraqi pilots, technical staff and other specialists for training and combat use of L-159 aircraft and their technical maintenance. In addition to advice on practical activities, members of the Air Advisory Team will provide assistance to the Iraqi Air Force in the creation of doctrine, tactics, methodological procedures and basic training documentation for the use and maintenance of L-159 aeroplanes. The Air Advisory Team will operate at the Balad air base about 80 km from Baghdad in the number of up to 35 people without aviation technology and will not be involved in combat operations. Nor will it provide or mediate any material related to the operation and security of the aircraft concerned to Iraqi air forces. [[The speaker raises his voice to shout out the noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, so that the Minister does not have to raise his voice, please calm down in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u4	The team will be composed of two instructor pilots, six instructor technicians, eight self-protection officers, one paramedic, one commander and five staff members, chief of staff and six logistics, communications and intelligence specialists. In Iraq, this will be the reality of 30 people. The remaining five will be deployed if necessary to increase and strengthen the team. The security of the members of the Air Advisory Team will be ensured by Iraqi forces at the base of Balad and further in cooperation with the United States Army in particular by integrating into the structures of the ongoing operation of the global coalition against ISIL, Operation Inherent Resolve, exits outside the base will be limited to a minimum, transportation to Baghdad will be carried out by air and the team will have armored cars on site. The maximum planned financial costs for the entire mission are estimated at CZK 265 million. The funds will be drawn from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence. The mission will be carried out on the basis of an invitation from the Government of the Republic of Iraq, which we have already received, and the technical arrangement now being processed between the Ministry of Defence of Iraq and the Czech Republic, which guarantees, among other things, the legal status of members of the Air Advisory Team. With this military presence in Iraq, the Czech Republic will become an active participant in the global coalition in the fight against the so-called Islamic State. [[14.40 hours]] The mission of the Air Advisory Team fulfills the long-term commitments of the Czech Republic and, at the same time, the efforts to develop cooperation with Iraq. It is our interest to stabilise the region and to contribute to the fight against terrorism and to addressing the reasons for migration to Europe. This is a welcome and adequate contribution of the country of size and possibilities of the Czech Republic to an ongoing international operation to help Iraq, on whose territory other European and alliance countries of the global coalition against Daiš operate similarly. So many introductions. And I would like to conclude by asking the Chamber of Deputies to approve this material as well as the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u5	Thank you, Minister. This press has been discussed by the Defence Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as press 761/1. Please the rapporteur, Mr Antonín Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to resolution No. 160 Defence Committee from the 30th meeting of 27 April this year on the Proposal on the functioning of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic to the end of 2018 in total up to 35 persons. It's House Press No. 761. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening performance of Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Czech Armed Forces, Lieutenant General Josef Bečvář, Deputy Minister of Defence for the Management of the Defence Policy Section and Strategy of Jakub Landovský, Deputy Deputy Political Director of the Security and Multilateral Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Ivan Jestřáb, report by Mr Antonín Sed and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic agree that: 1. Approves the proposal for the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018 in total up to 35 persons; 2. Committee asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2016, no later than 30 June 2017, further to inform the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2017, by 30 June 2018 at the latest, and by 30 June 2019 at the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2018, at the latest. II. The Committee on Defence instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. asks the chairman of the committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I have an application so far, and this is Mrs Jana Černochová's application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just talking about what was said here by the minister at the beginning. I don't know if he attended the beginning of yesterday's meeting when Mr.Faltýnek, chairman of his MP's club, was reading this item for today at 12.40 or 12.45. So what the minister here said was that he had a different term, I don't know. For me, what was proposed here by the President of his parliamentary club and what the Civil Democratic Party supported in the hope that the Minister would be here. You know, there's a whole series of resolutions. A number of points on which the Minister's presence can be replaced by the presence of another Minister. But I think most of you agree with me when I say that the state budget, the state final account of the relevant resort and the transmission of hundreds of soldiers - in this case 35, but we're going to have here soon another posting on foreign operations, on the two-year mandate where the soldiers will be hundreds, so the presence of the Minister of Defence should simply be an obligation, because we are sending troops abroad who are going to move in locations that are not safe. I think we can agree that Iraq is not a safe country. And as members of the legislature, we have the right to want the presence of a minister here to cover up this mission by asking any questions from colleagues who are not on the Defence Committee and who have not heard what we have heard, even in the negotiated negotiations, so they can ask the Minister here. I would have used it - and I don't want to prolong it like I said a while ago. The Civic Democrats Club will support this proposal because we consider sending our troops to foreign operations to be the right course of action. This really is a brand-new mission. Even those of you who have followed a long procedure in the media know that there was a request for approval from the UK. Everything happened, including an invitation letter. There is no obstacle ahead of us why we cannot vote in favour of this. But I have one request and one question for the Minister. You didn't include the point I was talking about at the beginning of the meeting yesterday. That means deploying soldiers in the streets. And I just mentioned foreign operations that I didn't know if the Army of the Czech Republic had the capacity to cover the requirements, plans, and exercises within the Czech Republic. And I would like to ask the Minister, or rather to hear assurances from the Minister - because if I'm not mistaken, the soldiers are expected to leave for this mission in the summer, in a month, maybe a month and a half. These days there is a recognosis of the terrain from both the people of the country and from the General Staff. If it really doesn't interfere in any way with what's going on here in Prague. If the people who are going to be there really aren't going to miss them somewhere else. And I use it as an opportunity for the Minister here to say what I think he is saying very carefully in the media and how I agree with him - that we really consider the deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic in the streets of large cities to be redundant these days. And I'm glad his words are going to change. So I ask, Minister, if there really will be no problem with the unplanned exercise that has been going on in our streets since March, in custody of foreign operations, whether it is Iraq, or if it is operations that we are going to discuss here, probably at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And that's it for me. As I said, the Civil Democratic Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u9	Thank you. I'll ask who else for the debate. The Minister wishes to respond. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad that the debate is perhaps starting to go in a direction which I dare say is uncompromisingly essential, and these are the very facts of the whole thing, let's say. Because I would hate to have the very fact that we are engaged in an international coalition, and I consider that very important. There's a lot of talk here about how evil needs to be rooted out where it comes from. Well, finally, we will finally be there and physically present and after material assistance in the form of ammunition etc. The fact that we're sending this team in, I think it's very important. Perhaps you have also noticed that the states that operate in this, say, informal coalition have so much to do with their defence ministers' meetings, which also has a considerable political influence. If we are talking about not being willing to accept some direct-ordered numbers of migrants, then it is also very important to have an argument that we are participating in other ways or we are trying to help solve the problem. And that's exactly what falls into this. It's an initiative to forgive us. No one told us to, and no one invented it for us. And I'm glad you'll probably, I hope, support this proposal. To the specifics that the honourable Member said. So the start should be 1. 6. Recognancy team's working there. So far, everything looks like the term could be, from the military's point of view, the military is capable of keeping it. [[14.50 hours]] As far as patrols are concerned, there has already been a reduction in the territory of Moravia. It is true that we initiated this in agreement with the Chief of Staff and that in the future - in the near future - I believe that the measure will be terminated. It was programmed within two months and the government that decided on it met on 22 March. So we're in those two months, and I told the Prime Minister yesterday, too, and I believe that it will be for the next or next government if there is no new information, which does not yet seem to be expected, so that this measure of that first point would be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u11	So if there are no more applications for the debate, then I am done with the debate. Sorry, general debate is over. In the detailed debate that I have opened, I will ask the rapporteur to read the motion for a resolution once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I merely recapitulate that my colleague Jana Černochová and Minister Martin Stropnický have spoken in the general debate. Now on the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from the 44th meeting of 4 May 2016 on the proposal for the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq. Chamber of Deputies I. agrees with the action of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018 in total up to 35 persons. A Chamber of Deputies II. Asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2016, by 30 June 2017 at the latest, of the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2017, by 30 June 2018 at the latest, and the operation of the Air Advisory Team of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2018, by 30 June 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-007-226.u13	Thank you, rapporteur. No one else is reporting for a detailed debate. So I'm done. Final words? Not interested. In that case, we will vote. Please note that in order to adopt this first motion for a resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed, so I have set the quorum to 101. We will therefore vote on the first motion for a resolution, that is, on the approval of the proposal on the functioning of the Air Advisory Team, etc. I am opening the vote, asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote 432, registered at 157, for 149, against 1, this proposal has been adopted. We will now vote on a second resolution, where a simple majority is sufficient, and this is a request for the Government to inform it in the terms put forward by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote, asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? The vote has number 433, registered is 159, for 156, against no one, the proposal has been adopted. I note that we have therefore approved both motions for resolutions. I conclude with paragraph 226 and thank both the Minister and the rapporteur. I'll read some more apologies. Mr Kořenek apologizes for today's meeting within three o'clock, Mr Vyzula apologized from 2:30 to 3:30 for personal reasons, Mr Kádner apologizes from 3:30 to the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes on a business trip between 2:30 and 3:30 and Mr Šarapatka apologizes, but I have already read this, but for the record, it is an apology from today's meeting to 3:00 for working reasons. So many apologies. On the basis of our resolution, I will return to item 57, which I have already mentioned before the interruption.
