ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u1	223. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that applications for oral interpelations can be submitted within 11 hours and they will be drawn at 11.30. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] We will now proceed to paragraph 223. The first interview he didn't agree to is... Calm down, please! This is an interpelation of Mr.František Vácha about overpowering the Police of the Czech Republic, House Press 692. It's an interrupted point, interrupted interpellation. I would like to point out, before I give the floor to my colleague Vách, that according to § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, unless the Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the answers to its interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. My colleague Vácha is here. We will continue with the adjourned debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's March 2016. I'm the one who gave the interview on November 24th, so it took us a while to get to the floor. However, I would like to disagree with the Minister's reply, which I interrogated on exceeding the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic during the meeting at Albertov in Prague on 11 November 2015. According to all available information, the Police of the Czech Republic selectively admitted or rather did not allow participants in the memorial space on 17 November. The conduct of the Police of the Czech Republic was or is justified by the announced assembly with the participation of the President of the Czech Republic, which is a constitutional official. Of course, it is understandable that the police must inspect the premises before the arrival of the constitutional agent and at that time not allow participants into the area. However, in my opinion, it is unacceptable for the Police of the Czech Republic to be abused after the whole area is secured to selectively determine who may and who does not. This is documented by video footage, witness statements and so on. So I asked the Minister to explain this to me. In his reply, the Minister wrote to me that after the safety inspection of the protected site, persons were already admitted to the assembly area. Of course, we know they weren't allowed in. I ask again who gave the police the order to selectively admit or not to allow people to attend the meetings and who instructed the police who to let in and who not. If it was the police officer's activity, or if there was someone behind him who said to him, you can let that person in here, not here. Of course, I understand the Minister's answer. The Minister is the top manager and, out of his office, the police manager, and I might have acted in his place in a similar way to defending my subordinates. However, I would not commend them in a personal conversation. But of course you must understand that I cannot accept this answer as sufficient because it contradicts reality. Of course, I'm not asking for any cleanup at the Police of the Czech Republic. It's enough for me to know that you've dealt with this and that you've set some rules to prevent this situation from happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u3	Thank you. There are no log-ins yet. I'll just recap. It's 692 printing. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. He's here. That is why I am giving the Minister the floor to complete the reply. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all I would like to apologise to my colleague that it took so long to meet and we are able to say this to ourselves on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The Home Secretary, although he appears to be the Chief Manager of the Police, is not, in essence, because the police are independent, he has his police president. Lawfulness in the police is controlled by an independent body, no longer by the Inspectorate of the Interior, but by the General Inspection of the Security Corps. I have come to know all the reviews on this matter that have been made by the Police Presidium, and they say clearly that the police have not erred in this matter. I do not have a single legal argument where it could be said that the police have embezzled or that they may have violated the law on police or any other legal standard of the Czech Republic. Mr President, it would also be best for me, as a person, if the police escorted those several students to the memorial board, they could place flowers there, pay tribute to the memory that is close to us all. I was a student on November 17th, which means I remember the events very vividly. And I also asked the police why it didn't happen to lead the group of students to the memorial board where they wanted to go, not to the meetings, but to the memorial board, and why they didn't allow them to put the flowers at that time. The cops have borne a number of arguments, and I have no reason as a professional not to believe that they have assessed it as a risk that it was at a time when the presence of the President of the Republic has sealed the premises, especially after carrying out a pyrotechnic search and inspection of the site, and that the site of the memorial plate was evaluated as a place of high safety risk. Police at that time did not have the capacity to allow students and police escorted simply to come to this record. It must also be said that the record was inaccessible for several hours. It wasn't all day. It was a time of meeting and just after. As far as the selection is concerned, there has been a report of the assembly and of how the meeting is conducted, de facto who will be admitted, from our point of view the caller of the event is responsible. And we don't have the evidence and information that the police are doing the role of some sort of organizing service. I would very much like the police not to play the role of organizing service or at football matches or at these events. Of course, if something like this were to be proved, there is a need for concrete action. I say again, I have come to know all the possible reviews that were in this matter, I have seen at least three, and none of them state that the police are breaking the law. I have no reason to appeal to the police president, because I could only do that to draw concrete measures. On the other hand, I think that the students have dealt with this very well, that they have done an event that unfortunately was not in the deadline that we recall on November 17th, but did the action subsequently. They made it very sophisticated and very pleasant. That's probably all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u5	Thank you, Minister. Who's next to the debate? If I don't see anyone, and even my colleague Vácha isn't suggesting anything, I'm done with this interview. We'll deal with another interpellation. It is Press 693 when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová responded to Mrs Jitka Chalánková's interpellation on the distribution of siblings in international adoptions. Interpelation shall be presented as such 693. The discussion of this response has been interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. I'm opening the debate. But my colleague Chalánková is not here. I have a relatively simple matter ahead of me, and that is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and also the Act on Rules of Procedure. That is why I quoted him at the outset of the initiation of written intercessions. It is Section 112 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at this meeting, there shall be no debate on the answers to its interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. So I must respect the text of the Rules of Procedure Act and consider the interpelation final. I'm sure Chalánková will have enough evidence to interpel further in the matter of the procedure. [[Mr. Koníček comes to the pitch and reports for the floor.]] We cannot hold a debate when there is no interpelling Member, if we understand each other well. He's not even a secretary. Don't be mad at me. The hierarchy of legal standards is simple - first the law, then the resolution. Such as the Constitution - the law - the government's order - the decree - methodical instruction. So don't be mad at me. I can't do this any other way. So this interpelation is over. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, this is another interpelation, responded to the interpellation of Mr Ivan Adamec in the case of the Minister of Transport Decree No. 256/2015 Coll., amending the Decree of the Ministry of Transport and Communications No. 167/2002 Coll., which is implemented by Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing 727. Mr Adamec is present, the Minister is also present. We can open the debate. My colleague Adamec is reporting for an open debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, good morning. I have something strongly, I would say, in the ground against previous interventions, it is the Decree of the Ministry of Transport No. 256/2015 Coll., as has already been said here. The decree applies, if memory does not deceive me, from 1 November 2015, but the problem I described in the question to the Minister is still ongoing. In my opinion, the problem is generally as old as our public administration - the problem of a merged model, where municipalities with extended scope perform certain activities for the state and the state does not want to pay for these activities or create such conditions that municipalities can do so that they do not have to put in place funds that are clearly intended to be used entirely for another purpose, because they arise otherwise, that is, from tax revenues or the community's own activities. The problem is that de facto the decree tells us because it is the transferred performance of the state administration, so it is necessary to do so, because it de facto is the law for our officials that we are to provide a test area for training and obtaining a driving licence for motorcycles. The problem is that the area is supposed to be at least 130 to 10 meters. I can guarantee you we don't have that area in the village. We just don't. They once existed in some cities, mostly in the district, training areas where this training was carried out. The training was also carried out by riding a motorcycle in pairs, i.e. the driving instructor sat behind the future driver and repaired it and made sure that the motorcycle did not crash. We don't have the area. At this point, we don't even have the money in the budget to set it up. She's not a cheap thing at all. Whoever has encountered the construction of communications knows that such space is in hundreds of thousands, maybe millions depending on where you're going to do it. And the alternative that the Ministry has offered us to do in parking lots at hypermarkets, or that we're supposed to do it on routine communications where classic traffic is going on, and we're supposed to limit it, I find it really a little smiling. First of all, it's the money market, 'cause no deal's gonna give you anything for free. And at the moment, when we're going against their hair, they're definitely not gonna want to make good contracts with us for municipalities to train drivers. And as far as traffic is concerned, even if it's limited to the size of the area, it's usually not local communication. It will be spinal communication and there perform training in normal operation and as described in the decree, I don't think it is possible. I understand that the decree was actually instigated by the European Commission, that we needed to straighten out our legal order, but the deadline was very gallant. I would imagine in the Minister's reply not that we are doing well, that we have, for example, a children's transport course, but how we will deal with the situation. Whether the state will provide us with any resources to build this area or actually find some alternative solution. [[9.20 hours]] There is yet another problem that driving schools that train, so those who have a trainer, do not have to have a flat, but the test has to be done on that area. But driving schools that don't have a trainer must of course have an area available and there I see a big problem. Saying that nothing has happened so far is a nice thing, but take how a driver can ride a motorcycle alone without having a driving licence, on a road road which is intended for public space. Well, that's one thing. He can't do that. And the other side is the one that happens to crash. Then who will pay for all this and who will bear the consequences of this crash? I admit that I would really expect some conceptual solution to this decree for the municipalities, because otherwise it will work by going around, breaking the laws, and doing it in style to eat the wolf and the proverbial goat remains whole. I would ask you, Minister, if you would rather outline some concept of a solution than what you gave me in response to my written intervention. So far, thank you for your attention and I will join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u7	I thank Mr Adamc and ask the Minister if he wants to answer in an open debate. Yes. The Minister of Transport, Mr. Dan Ťok, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Adamč, through Mr President, you are right that the state administration or the government sometimes or the ministries tend to transfer some activities to the ORP, to municipalities with extended scope, without somehow resolving how this will be compensated: but I am trying to do as little or no such things at the Ministry of Transport as possible, and here I would like to assure you that Decree No. 256/2015 Sb. is not the case. Why it is not, I would like to stress this not only by reading the text of the decree. However, Law No 247/2000 Sb. neither the decree in question is made by any of the municipal authorities of the municipalities with extended scope, hereinafter referred to as the ORP, provided for the obligation to own a training area or a training centre. There is no reason to do so, either, because the driving licence test is not the same as the driving licence applicant's training. This is a test of knowledge, skills and behaviour, thus the applicant's premiere ride after a well-trained training, and can of course be done in normal operation. That means there's no need for this area here. As I said before, it is not necessary to perform the first part of the test from the practical ride on the motorcycle compared to the training of applicants to perform the test procedures excluding any operation. that's not a condition either in the decree or in the law. Currently, the legislative process of amendment of Act No 247, which provides for the obligation of the applicant to carry out the second part of the test, directly in road traffic, has undergone a separate driving test without the presence of the examiner on a motorcycle, with the Commissioner giving instructions through intercom. Up to now, there has been a trial commissioner on a motorcycle. A separate road ride with varying intensity also follows the European Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council. [[2006/126/EC?]] This means that from this point of view there is no obligation to own this area for municipalities with extended scope. Yes, it is a minor complication for driving schools that carry out this training because they have to use such an area, either they have to own it or they have to have access to such an area that is intended there. But when we were discussing the matter with traffic safety experts, road safety and driving schools, everyone agreed that this was a step in the right direction. Of course, the problem was that we didn't issue the decree at first. 1. 11. 2015 was a deadline, it was agreed with the Legislative Council of the Government, and we were based on the fact that in autumn and winter the exams and training were not very good, so there is sufficient time to train both drivers and trainers for this situation. I don't know how much better we can help right now. If we can talk about this from a security point of view, the law passed yesterday, the Act on the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, allows subsidies from a security point of view. There are grant titles for such things. If the municipalities want to make them, the municipalities can log in to them, if necessary. if there was any other matter, but the decree itself does not imply that the municipality would have to make such an area for carrying out the test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u9	Thank you, Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. My colleague Adamec is reporting with an additional question, a proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this reply. It calmed me down a bit, but on the other hand, I understand that the trend of the final exam takes place in operation without the presence of an instructor. Here I don't know, and maybe it's already a question, I'd say redundant, how the problem is then dealt with if there was an accident or damage to foreign property, or even the health of both what makes a driver's license and possibly another road user. That's the only thing I don't know yet is what this would look like in the event of a crisis like this. Otherwise, of course, the whole problem arose from the pressure of officials, of course, from my office, because they actually considered the term very gallows, until when the decree was put into practice. Of course, we all perceive that there is probably not much riding on the motorcycle right now, because we are in the winter season and spring doesn't come until March 21st, or maybe 22nd, I don't know how lunar it is right now. The space is de facto there. However, I still think that in general it would be better if the cities had those surfaces, because, of course, the training... except the trainers, and it needs to be said that the trainer is not a motorcycle, even when you're working on an airplane trainer, it's not a plane. The trainer is just a trainer, and it's not gonna be any other way, and until you get on a motorcycle and try it on, I don't think you know what it's about. I think it would be better if those areas were, and if the tender is put out for it under the transport infrastructure fund, we'd be happy to sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u11	Thank you. Minister Tok will complete the answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I would like to confirm here that this test should be carried out without an assistant sitting behind the driver. The reason, of course, is the request of the European Commission and the directive I quoted. We believe that by making it legal, it's a legitimate way of running a motorcycle. We assume that every test commissioner, but especially the one who does the training, should prepare the driver so that he should pass the test seamlessly. Of course, anything can happen. In this case, we assume that the liability for the damage should be borne by the driver's insurance. But I'm gonna check this out, and I'm gonna give you a specific answer, because I don't want to say it's exactly like that. That's how I explain it, but I'd like to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u13	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. It's not like that. So I'm done with the debate. No proposal to vote has been made, so we can end this interpelation as well. This was the last response to today's written interview with which the Members did not agree. And since, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, time is set aside from 9 to 11 hours for written interpelations, there is no choice but not only to end item 223, but also to interrupt the meeting until 11 o'clock, with the continuation of the fixed points at 11 o'clock. Let me remind you: paragraphs 140, 141, 148, 217 and 77. The first points are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, these are international treaties, and paragraph 77 is the execution order of my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček and others. If these points are exhausted within 13 hours, other points from the contract block in first and second reading. So I'm interrupting the meeting by 11 o'clock, and we'll meet again at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue after the interruption. I remind you that, after the end of paragraph 223, we have already firmly classified points, I repeat: 140, House printing 656, 141, House printing 659, 148, House printing 722, paragraph 217, House printing 667 and paragraph 77, House printing 238. If we exhaust them, we could focus on points from the contract block at first and second reading, the Foreign Minister is present, or other items from the report block, proposals and others. But now is the time under the Rules of Procedure when Members can still speak with amendments to the approved agenda. Please, now my colleague Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose, on behalf of the Dawn MEP, the inclusion of item 202, Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis, for next Thursday at 11 o'clock, with the Prime Minister leaving for the European summit on Monday and I think that this term would be acceptable. In case the Prime Minister is here, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-001-223.u16	So Thursday, March 10th, 11 o'clock. Yes? But let me remind you that all the written interpelations have been exhausted, so next Thursday we're going to act from nine o'clock, so we're going to get into trouble. My colleague, Černoch, I ask that he pay attention to me. Since all written interpelations at this meeting are exhausted, we can act at nine o'clock. So I'm asking if my colleague Černoch insists on 11 o'clock. 'Cause at the time of that fixed point, we could be discussing something that we would have to interrupt. [[Mr. Black off the mic: we can do it after interpelling.]] Written interpelations are exhausted. This morning, the written interpelations at this meeting were exhausted, at 42. This means that we will act from nine o'clock in the morning on Thursday, 10 March. I'm asking if you insist on that eleven o'clock. [[Mr. Black responds off the mike.]] Nine o'clock. So 9 o'clock is the first point. Okay. Anyone else on the agenda? If not, we will vote without debate on this proposal by my colleague, Černoch. I'll check you out and apply for a new registration. Please log in with your identification cards to determine the current presence in the Chamber. Once the number of applications has been settled, I will vote on Mr Marek Černoch's proposal. The 90-order vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 90, 112 for 55, against 22. The motion was not accepted. I therefore assume that this agreement must be reached between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, which was announced on Tuesday, and on behalf of the President of the Members' Clubs, I call you to such an agreement. So now we're going to look at the fixed points, because we haven't changed today's or another program yet. The first item is therefore
