ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 678/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief, because I have made the proposal quite comprehensively within the first reading, so allow me, fellow Members, just to reiterate that the Government's bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, first introduces the possibility of recognising foreign emission plaques for entry into low-emission zones and at the same time changes the form for setting up low-emission zones of municipalities from the decree to measures of a general nature. Furthermore, with effect from 2020, it sets a new, lower emission limit for PM2,5 particles, i.e. dust microparticles, and provides greater flexibility in announcing and ending smog situations and regulations. In connection with the national emission reduction programme approved by the Government, it also brings earlier validity of stricter requirements for solid fuel boilers placed on the market under the EU Ecodesign Regulation from 2020. The most attention, and this will certainly be reflected again in the debate, as it was at first reading, is raised by Amendment 21 of the Government's proposal, which says that, in the event of repeated reasonable suspicion of infringements under the Air Protection Act, a worker of the municipality with extended scope may directly check the combustion source operated in the household and its accessories, which must enable the operator of the resources to do so. I would like to reiterate at this point that the aim of the inspection is to verify what particular type of boiler, which emission classes are actually operated in the home and whether waste is not incinerated in the source so that people living in the immediate vicinity are not threatened by any dangerous emissions. [[18.10 hours]] Again, I would like to say that, for this proposal, we have been many times called upon by many municipalities and, finally, by the regions, to finally correct the situation where, in the current wording of the Air Protection Act, of course, the ban on the incineration of waste, but the municipalities have no effective way of examining the violation of this ban, how to actually respond to hundreds, and even thousands of incentives that the municipalities - of course, I have experience, for example, from Ostrava and other cities, where, as I have previously informed, we have discussed this with specific officials who are dealing with these initiatives, and unfortunately, in 99 percent of the cases it will end up in such a way that the complaint simply cannot be demonstrated in any way and is, in principle, postponed, which certainly does not create confidence in citizens that the municipal authority is able to respond to suggestions, and the municipal authority is quite logically calling on the legislator to change the situation. We have worked very hard to balance individual rights and obligations and to ensure that the adjustment is proportionate and, of course, to be constitutionally conformal. I'm sure it worked out, even though we're sure to hear a whole series of opinions about this place again. Again, I would like to say that it will be strictly followed under the State Control Act and a control protocol will be issued. Finally, it is also evidence that the audit authority is an extended municipality, which should, of course, guarantee greater objectivity and expertise of the control, for example, against the local authority of the municipality of the first degree. In addition to the original draft, a number of amendments have also been proposed within the framework of the Guarantee Committee on the Environment, which has discussed this press, will certainly be addressed by the rapporteur and recommended the adoption of several amendments that you have in your thousands. I would just once again - because the debate will simply be there - once again wanted to draw attention to a matter that may have come together last time, but it seems quite important to me that, in the framework of the big debate on how home freedom will or will not be violated, I would like to emphasise once again that this House has approved a text in the framework of the amendment on the protection of public health, which has entered into force 1. Last year's 12th, it was discussed as House Press 270, and it introduced a new authorisation into this law to enter the homes of persons for the purpose of checking how they comply with the obligations to protect against noise, vibrations or non-ionizing radiation from public health authorities, such as the Ministry of Health or the Regional Hygiene Station, which will allow domestic control in the event of complaints of noise violations. At this point, among other things, 159 of the 180 Members present voted in favour of this amendment. So if anyone is talking about a precedent, then he has already been created and I still dare say that possible violations of noise limits, even if it is also a serious matter in terms of health, but it is still not as serious as the fact that, unfortunately, there are thousands of sinners who burn waste, emit really tons and tons of dangerous carcinogenic substances into the air and the state, municipalities, regions have no way of affecting this illegal behavior. I am just reminding you again, but my colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party know that the original proposal was actually being made by Minister Chalupa for the ODS. In the end it did not pass, but it was basically here, I think from 2010 or 2011, a clear appeal by the government to the Minister of the Environment to address this issue, because at that time the Ministry of the Environment was under a lot of pressure from municipalities and regions to deal with it, and at that time it failed. I think that's a shame, but I'm sure it would be more unfortunate if it didn't happen now, when the proposal is definitely better prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u3	I thank the Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The resolution of the Committee on the Environment has been delivered to you as House Press 678/3, the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has been delivered to you as House Press 678/1, and the record of this committee has been delivered as House Press 678/2. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemk, to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon again. As has already been said, the Guarantee Committee on the Environment discussed this draft at its 33rd meeting on 28 April and adopted the following resolution: 1. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. 2. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. 3. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, which I am doing, and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to prepare appropriate legislative technical amendments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. As has already been said, this text, where the comprehensive amendment has been included, is in the system under number 678/3. I may comment briefly - there were just a few of those legislative technical modifications. Then there was a modification that sets emission limits on odorous substances. The initiative came from the Senate and the Committee on the Environment adopted it. As the third essential point, there is a modification of the requirements for combustion stationary sources, where another variant against the original variant, which was in the original draft, is included. So much for the comprehensive amendment, which has been passed by the Committee on the Environment and which you will find in the system. Everything on my side at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán, to take the floor and also inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify the amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u6	Thank you for the floor. vážený Vice-President, fellow Members, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 41st meeting after Ing's statement of reasons. Veronika Peštová, D, Deputy Minister of the Environment, after Mr Mgr Jan Klán and following the debate did not adopt a resolution on the House of Press 678 and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the course of the negotiations. I will do this, and I will say that we would certainly adopt the resolution, but there have been some controversy in the submission of one amendment, which was then resolved by the Guarantee Committee on the Environment. The point was that the representatives of the Ministry could not answer some of our questions. We discussed the question of this press twice and asked about the different things of the type who will enforce fines, that it will be an oerpéčko, that it will be the income of the community with extended scope, who will control it, that there will be a two-stage process, that is, first a letter will come to the person concerned, that, for example, it violates the law in some way, and only if it happens again, a second letter will come and a classic administrative procedure will be opened. In fact, we discussed all this in the area of public administration and the impact on municipalities. [[18.20 hours]] In my opinion, it should improve the control in a certain way, because really many people drown the need, as we discussed there, with PET bottles, which is really something terrible. But we also discussed other things there, which, of course, was answered fairly precisely by the representatives of the Ministry. But I say, a resolution would certainly be adopted if, in some way, we did not get into controversy there with one amendment. That's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jan Zahradník first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u8	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, this law is also specific in a sense. Just like the last one that we finished a while ago was Lex Šumava, so this could be said to be lex breaking into the dwellings. The proof of this may be that the Minister of the Environment has spent almost 90 percent of his time here reporting the law by talking about the paragraph, which is added here as Amendment Point 21 to Section 17. Yeah, about the intrusion into the house. This law, of course, has other important paragraphs, which are changed and will also affect the lives of citizens. Anyway, there's the headline, the intrusion into the house. I'm going to suggest that I launch that amendment point 21, but first, I'm going to take a few words to justify it. It has its aspects. First of all, the fact that we incarnate in the Air Protection Act such a crucial thing as the possibility of some inspectors entering the dwelling and controlling the citizen's activities there. After, of course, two letters, two notifications. I admit it all. Still, it's not exactly defined who the controllers are, and it's not exactly defined here, what means maybe they can use to break into that house. The additional paragraphs state that a fine, penalty for not allowing a citizen to enter his home and control freely what they want, namely, if he didn't accidentally drop something there, he doesn't drown in a stove that they don't like, so there's no telling how those controllers can get there, what resources they're going to use there. The rams, or do they have any universal keys, or do the windows go in? That, of course, is missing. So from this factual point of view, I don't think the paragraph should be there. Nor should he be there for his purpose. The reason why it is actually given there - to prevent the perpetrators of the combustion of illicit fuels from doing this activity, to commit their actions. I think, and I believe, that even this purpose will not be fulfilled. That there wouldn't be that deterrent function. Finally, not even the educational functions, as the Deputy Minister once mentioned. This paragraph is just completely useless. And I think it should be released. In particular, I want to achieve that purpose by submitting an amendment to the system, which firstly states that point 21 is being deleted, and the other points are being exceeded. This is the amendment point in which paragraph 2 is added to Section 17 in the wording which is the subject of our discussion here, allowing that controlling person to enter the citizen's home. The other amendment points are then exceeded. And as the second point of my amendment, I propose to amend paragraph 39. The changes are already triggered by the release of § 21. Point 39 describes the sanctions that would result from this. I therefore suggest - and in my proposal, it is also explained in detail why to leave out those letters, those points, how to change the wording of the relevant letters in the paragraphs in Section 23 so that the release of paragraph 21 is reflected in these changes. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The minister here argues that in another law, in the Health Act, a clause was laid down to allow some control authorities to enter their homes again and to check if there was any apparatus crying out too much or if there was any system causing illegal vibrations. Here I must repent, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that I have fatally failed as a watchdog for these things. That's how I admit it. If the Minister were even less correct, he would have to notice that I would probably be among the 150 votes as well. Yes, it did. But I find his argument kind of inappropriate. It's like the driver who gets caught driving 200 miles down the highway says to the policeman: I was driving here yesterday, too, 200, and nothing happened to me. Well, Minister, I wouldn't expect you to use this. So I have put forward a motion to launch this amendment point. Please, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, to note this, and at the third reading, they supported my proposal, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur. It's a real point. As much as you like, I'll limit it to two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u10	Thank you. I'll be brief. I will respond to the words of my fellow Zahradník about the idea of how this inspection will take place. Once again, I can offer my experience, or the experience of my colleagues from the front line of the administration's performance, from contact with those people in the field. And of course, it's not gonna be like someone came in with a battering ram or kicked in the door. After the repeated offense, he's just gonna ask nicely. If, of course, the inspectors or officials concerned are not allowed in, then the sanctions will follow. That's the difference between the current situation. Until now, these people have been more or less dependent on the welfare of the person who committed the offense, and in most cases they have been repelled and depended on the fact that the case has ended unsolved. Otherwise, of course, the possible sampling from the furnace will serve for cases or for the purposes of administrative proceedings that the offence will deal with. So once again, there's not gonna be any violent breaking into homes. I have to say no. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u12	Hello. Thanks again for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to incline to what my previous speaker, Mr Zahradník, said here, and to pause on the very fundamental subject that this law brings, and that is a restriction on house freedom. The restriction of home freedom, with which the representative of the ANO movement, Minister Brabec, comes, is on the list of non-freedoms TOP 09. It is one of the points that we have identified precisely the activities of this government coalition and the ANO movement, which seek to limit freedom not only in this case, but also in a number of other laws, of course. I want to say that Minister Brabec, as it is slowly becoming his custom, has resigned to any system measure and is again going the easiest way. He doesn't go forward conceptually, he's looking for a quick solution as he's probably pushed by his boss. Quick solutions, quick results. [[18.30 hours]] We are all aware that, in terms of endangering human health, fine dust particles are the most important harmful. The concentration of PM10 is given only because the smaller ones are PM2,5 or 1, i.e. with a size of 1 micron, is not fully standardized and reliably measured. There may be some relationship between these particles, but measurable correctly at the moment, or routinely, they are not. This means, if solid fuels are burned, the flue gases are always a source of particulates, unless the heaters have sophisticated, perhaps, wet fabric filters or other similar methods, which, of course, is not considered in the case of small heating plants. [[It's busy in the hall.]] What do I mean? That first and foremost depends on the fuel, secondly on the mode of heating, and only in third place on the topside, and this order of importance is important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u13	I'm very sorry, I'm going to ask for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u14	As far as fuel is concerned, the worst is coal, then, of course, wet wood, dry wood, the best are wood pellets. That's why I find it completely inconclusive and incorrect support so-called. boiler subsidies, when Minister Brabec supports the boilers, although of course they are called ecological, but of course those which can theoretically burn even wet wood or similar fuel. Of course, the mode of heating is critical, but according to the fuel and the heater specific, it is difficult to adjust it in any way in general. At least the requirement for oxygen supply and the most perfect combustion is clear. It certainly won't help the relatively expensive and certainly quite perfect heaters themselves. There is no guarantee of adequate fuel and, of course, this is the main and essential way of operating. That means the subsidies that go on coal heating these days really scare people. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of the Environment has any studies to assess the expected benefits of new boilers in order to reduce concentrations of flying dust and Immissions, and whether they are really sure, or at least on what basis they hope that the koruna spent on those boilers will bring some measurable, how measurable, benefit. Why do I start from those pots? It is now unfolding, and I am heading where I think there is a mistake on the side of the Ministry of Environment and on the side of Minister Brabec of the ANO movement, and that is it, there are other more sophisticated and systemic approaches to dealing with the problem of air pollution by local topidla. Of course, I would remind you historically, and now I'm not saying that this is the way, but historically I would remind you, for example. The very successful gasification of the Ústí Region, where, I believe, for 6.3 billion, the atmosphere was relatively significantly improved, unlike the activities we have today. I mean, once a man's home has a solid fuel boiler, no one can stop what he burns in it, plus if he's still subsidized. And here we are, of course, on the controversial heating control issue right next to the family home residents. TOP 09 is a conservative party and we honor the freedom and rights of individuals, including the right to privacy. Of course, I admit that there are two categories of rights here, which, of course, must be admitted. This means that the neighbors in the village have the right not to be polluted by the air they breathe, and, on the other hand, of course, it is the right to home freedom. What needs to be found? There is a need to find a balance between these two rights, to find a compromise between them. Now, unfortunately, the balance is on the side of the state, on the side of home freedom violations. Of course, the starting point can be some collective responsibility of municipalities, communities, must not be taken unilaterally, such as for example. the struggle of a citizen whose freedom must be defended at all costs, etc., but the efforts of the community together to protect a very important public good, namely clean air. Where should the Ministry of Environment go or where should it go? It is clearly support for a different type of heating. As I said before, the support of the cauldron subsidies is a huge mistake for Minister Brabec. By supporting solid fuel boilers instead of a system solution that is long-term, however, does not bring immediate effect, it nevertheless provides good solutions. I would like to say that industry is, in particular, a major source of air pollution. There are even economic instruments to address this matter. I mean, there's a way to ban brown coal heating by decree. This is happening in Poland, where for example. in the spa, this method of heating is prohibited, and it can of course be used in the future or it can also be used by us. It is the promotion of wood heating, where there is a whole complex that Minister Brabec could subsidize from the subsidy funds if he had not wasted the money for the boiler subsidies, and this is to set up a wood heating system, to build dryers, warehouses and support for wood boilers. I understand that this is of course a long-term matter, that it is not so that a line will stand at the county office and so I will buy votes from the voters. Wood heating is, and even with renewable resources, one of the trends. I want to conclude that we, TOP 09, will support the law only if that controversial paragraph disappears from there, which violates privacy or inviolability of dwellings. If this paragraph is removed from this law, then, of course, the law will have our support. If the YES and the ČSSD movement, along with the people, continue to want to restrict personal freedom, we will continue to define ourselves against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u15	I thank Mr Kučer. With a point of fact, Mr Zemek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u16	I'm just a little de facto. A colleague of the previous speakers mentioned the restriction for industrial enterprises. You know, it's not a practice thing anymore. I was working at the Regional Authority right now at the Air Protection Department, and we had rather well-inhibited businesses there. There is no plant or industrial enterprise that violates the law. If he breaks the law, he just won't work. So these businesses are just filling the emission limits. The problem in some areas is that there are too many concentrations and they exceed emission ceilings. But the segment of the big polluters is quite well captured in our country, so there's a little illusion that there might be some big shift somewhere else. That's where the shift happened. It was a technological shift. Of course, if he's using the so-called business. backpacks, the best degree of technology, so it is considered for example. Now, even in the novel when declaring smog situations, but let's not get the illusion that we can still achieve some more significant shift there, just by giving them some more regulation. Today the regulation of large businesses is quite sophisticated. And I repeat, it is not possible for an industrial plant, a large polluter, to break the law, because then it would simply not be allowed to operate that particular stationary source of pollution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Václav Horáček, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to put your attention in a slightly different direction, because, of course, as my fellow Zahradník here said, it's not just that part of the law. There are dozens of towns and municipalities in the Czech Republic who have unsuccessfully faced the issue of harassment with odor substances due to insufficient legislation. Many people suffer from health problems as a result of scent episodes. From the point of view of the communal sphere, the problem of pollution of housing zones is very urgent, long-term unsolved, I must admit that, and it lacks an understandable and effective legislative instrument. In my opinion, the amendment to the Act in Section 2 or 4 or in another paragraph does not allow any limit for odorous substances to be set and thus does not provide the authorities with a clear tool for assessing the legitimate complaints of citizens due to potential pollution. I think that both sides are at a disadvantage here, both sides of city dwellers and officials who have no compelling reasons for moving this and removing it. In that case, I think it is settled by my amendment, which I will make at the end. Experience in the field of defined conditions of operation and the reduction of odorous substances is a matter of concern to both civil servants and operators. Expert reports are insufficient in this respect and merely indicate that the source will not be a source of odor or that there is a risk of odour. However, this is not enough to assess whether the source is located in the site and under what conditions. And whether - and especially how the source already located in the site regulates or gradually reduces the smell pollution caused by it. In order for the law to define what harassment is by smell, I also consider it very important to remove objections as to whether smelling substances in individual cases only bothers sensitive individuals, it also happens because piggyback smells, but cutlets already smell, or it is an entire problem. Non-defining the basic data of harassment may also result in officials demanding zero scent values or, for example, one scent unit. This will lead to a disadvantage of resources. In this case, I consider it necessary to state the minimum value when harassment is objective. This definition protects both the population and the resources themselves. Now I'd like to move on to a bigger concrete. The Minister and I also received a survey of the town of Mimoňa, which addressed almost all the municipalities in the Czech Republic with a question just as it is with their harassment smell. The survey showed that the practice so far has been very poor, since state authorities cannot address legitimate complaints from citizens and municipalities on the basis of the existing law. 692 municipalities replied, of which 80 per cent agreed to complete the air law in the part of the scented substance. Of course, I and the Minister know that some municipalities have responded a little alibistically in the case that even those businesses are no longer there or cows or pigs. However, in order to document and declare it in some way, I will only read you a few answers from the officials of some municipalities to the given question about smell. City of Odry: The problem is that legislation does not contain any procedures and conditions for solutions. The transfer of a complaint to the Czech Environmental Inspection or Regional Hygiene Station is not a solution for the same reason. Municipality of Lusatia: A legislative standard is missing which would clearly define the limit of permissible limits for individual sources of air pollution. Municipality of Opolany: If legislation does not address restrictions and sanctions, the arrogance of odor agents in some cases exceeds the tolerable limit of communication. The town of Mimoň, this is the realizer of the questionnaire event, where, just for your information, they have a big problem with piggyback: We still appeal, we pay our lawyer and inefficiently harass both regional officials and the Ministry of Environment. Town Wing: The smell rate is difficult to determine and prove. The breeding of pigs is a serious problem in the intravilions of municipalities in terms of smell, noise, traffic and the occurrence of insect and rat annoying in some breeders. City of Vsetín: There is no measure of a technical nature enforced and controlled by the authorities of the State. And so I could go on, but of course I'm not gonna do any obstructions, and I'll allow myself to sum up. It is by this amendment to the law that I propose a fundamental value for the residential and industrial zone, which will depend on the possibility of requiring the source of audit from the point of view of emissions of odorous substances and on this basis seek ways to improve the situation. General education is not enough. It is necessary to set a basic value that will depend on the possibility of requiring a source of technological modification or other technical conditions leading to an improvement in the situation. The proposed in Section 2 is not an emission limit for it to be a strict directive again, only a definition of the term harassment by smell. These values for the residential and industrial zone specify clear boundaries from which odors can be regarded as bothering. The follow-up decree or methodological instruction should further clarify how public authorities will act in the event of malpractice and how they will be able to anchor odor reduction in the air quality improvement programme. Of course, the amendment is based on the demands of cities and municipalities, because the conflict always takes place in two variants. In the worst case scenario, private operators ridicule mayors of cities and municipalities because they have everything okay and it is according to the law, and on the other hand, it has already been said here, when harassing regional officials or the Ministry of the Environment. There is really no definition to modify this. That is why I tabled an amendment under number 4396. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u19	I thank Mr Horáček. With a factual remark, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u20	Real quick, I'll follow up on Mr. Pre-Speaker. It is the comprehensive amendment that emerged from the Committee on the Environment that includes point 2 when this issue is partially addressed. It's where the emission limits on odorous substances are being introduced. Well, it's just for refills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u21	Thank you to the rapporteur. So far, the last duly entered into the general debate is Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will take this very briefly, because my contribution will again concern the mentioned section 17 paragraph. 2 which concerns the control of boilers, so a whole range of arguments and things have already been made here by my colleague Zahradník and colleague Kučera. So I can join those doubts, even their arguments. And it's not just my opinion, it's more or less our entire KDU-ČSL club. Perhaps if I were to summarize why this paragraph, the specific provisions of paragraph 17, bothers us. So, of course, the very principle of breach of house freedom, i.e. violation of the Constitution for Freedom. But there are things like the enforcement of this measure itself. I already talked about this at first reading when I was talking about it with our mayors in the region. I asked if they had any problems with it. Well, if you do, then most of the time the garbage burns, let's say the citizens are socially weak. Then the question is, how are we going to enforce a fine of 50,000 out of these people? I think enforcement is very small. I was also talking about increased administration, administrative burden. If we recapitulate, there will be a challenge, there will be some proof of the proper documents, then there will be an announcement, so the administration will grow considerably as well. Further, what can bother us is the increased financial costs for the municipalities, for the designated municipalities of the 3rd grade, which will deal with this, they will focus on this. Again, you have to send two officers there to check in, pay for the trip, and the analysis of the samples is also worth something. [[18.50 hours]] And another thing that maybe bothers me personally, and I've already pointed it out again at first reading, some uncertainty, that is, to what extent this is a burning problem. I think it was the rapporteur who said that in the framework of the PO3 it would be a few cases a year, maybe a dozen. Then somebody else said, it's a burning problem, it's happening big, it's bothering us. So we don't really know what it's like here, whether it's really that serious or rather marginal. These are the reasons which lead me to sign up in a detailed debate to an amendment that would release the relevant paragraph or paragraph 2. Just maybe one last mention. The minister here argued that once before that year we broke home freedom in connection with noise level monitoring, etc. I don't think that's an argument. I just don't think we should go on breaking through. It actually happened 14 days ago, when we broke home freedom back here in connection with weapons and possession of weapons by persons who might be threatening someone else with weapons. So it's like we're chained up. I don't think it's good and we should say stop. So much on my part and in a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u23	Thank you, Mr Junek. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u24	I'm just going to sum it up. In total, four speakers spoke in the general debate. Probably the evergreen that went through the most here was a supposed breach of home freedom. I don't want to complicate this debate anymore. I guess we have a different opinion about it. I believe that there will be no forced entry into the household based on this draft. It's just a misconception. Indeed, it should only occur after a repeated offence, and after repeated warning, access should be granted, not by coming in and breaking the door. It'll just be on a voluntary basis. Unless, of course, the person permits that approach, then it's a misdemeanor that will be dealt with by some kind of administrative procedure. I would have avoided the term that we're breaking in here or that it's some sort of major breach of house freedom. After all, we let people into the apartment. And this, I think, is not, from my point of view, such a fundamental restriction on freedom. For me personally, the freedom of people who have the right to breathe clean air is more important. And just when a person doesn't respect the right of others, his freedom just ends there and has to bear the consequences. In my practice or in my experience, I think it's gonna be dozens of cases on those ORPs. But I don't know. I don't know the exact numbers. I don't know the exact numbers. But as I have said several times, I don't think this is such a major problem. In this novel there are more important things like the PM2,5 dust limit, there is an adjustment to the announcement of smog situations taking into account companies that use technology and other things. [[unintelligible]] And unfortunately, I'm a little sorry that the debate is only down here for this part. All on my side at the moment, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u25	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur to correct me if necessary, but I note the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u26	I have to admit, I didn't register that. Oh, no, it wasn't served. No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u27	It hasn't been administered. I'm sorry. It's written right here. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Jan zahradník was the first to enter into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment which consists in releasing paragraph 21 of the amendment, which contains paragraph 2 of paragraph 17 incriminating paragraph 17. Of course, I don't want to deny the citizens any pure air. [[The noise level in the room is rising.]] I just don't like the method Minister Brabec wants to achieve. I don't like that law, which goes somewhere else entirely by its theme, to establish the right to enter the dwellings, to violate home freedom. Plus, I don't think people who are sanctioned in this way are gonna pay anyway. All you're gonna do is widen the list for the bailiffs. Perhaps Minister Brabec and his experts could pay attention to inventing a method if they already want those controls and think they can help to analyse smoke remotely. I'm sure that's possible. You just don't want to look for it. I, ladies and gentlemen, sign up for an amendment that is included in the system as House document 4394, and I beg you to support this proposal at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u29	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Horáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u30	Thank you. I think I have already made myself clear enough in the explanatory memorandum in the general debate. However, I am very pleased that the rapporteur has informed me that we are already partly in agreement with the comprehensive amendment, so my proposal, which is here, basically specifying the scent standard and I am signing up to it under Amendment 4396. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. So far, Mr Jiří Junek is the last member of the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u32	I would hereby sign up for my amendment, which is read as a House document under number 4413. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u33	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I don't see any proposals for a return or... [[The Minister is interested in the final word.]] Oh, sorry, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u34	Thank you for the debate, colleagues. We're coming to a conclusion. I'm very glad we went through the second reading. And just about what was said here, and I wouldn't want to make any more comments about it, but believe me, we've exhausted all the possibilities we've been looking into, and I'd be happiest if technical possibilities allowed the drone to be sufficient proof today. It is possible that it will be in two years, three years, and we will certainly be very helpful, just as the hydrometeorological institute helps. It's not like that yet. We have a wide range of systemic measures, we have clean mobility, there are clear industrial measures. Unlike my colleague Kučera, I think that boiler subsidies are a great idea. They're extremely popular. They are also used for the heating by wood and for the heating by the gas you are talking about, and even in Ostrava, coal boilers, even the most modern boilers, have chosen only 12 percent of people, according to preliminary information. Nor would I be at all opposed to suggesting that municipalities have the power to prohibit coal heating on their territory. If anyone suggested it, we have no problem with it. Of course. [[The noise in the hall, a lot of Members are already packing their things and starting to break up.]] I just want to say that if there's any social situation of the population in these areas... From the noise, I can see the seventh hour approaching. So thank you for supporting this proposal and I believe it will last at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-012-018.u35	ano, Minister, the social situation in the House shows that the seventh hour is approaching. That was the Minister's final word on this bill, and I am ending the second reading of this bill. Since there's only one minute left, I hope you won't mind if I don't open another point. I wish you a good evening. The House meeting will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with answers to the written interpelations. It's point 231. Have a good evening.
