ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u1	203. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis On the bench you were given to this point the background material of the Ministry of the Interior. I ask the Prime Minister to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to introduce you to the main points of development in the area of migration over the last few months. As I looked back, the last time I was in this place, at the plenary session of the Chamber of Deputies, was on the subject of the migration crisis last October. According to all realistic expectations, the development of migration will have to continue to monitor and respond very closely to political representation in both the Czech Republic and the European Union in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proven to be in the midst of the largest wave of refugees since the end of World War II. In connection with the constant influx of others and others into the European Union, and given that so far there has been only a very small reduction in the number of these people despite the arrival of winter, so that the most affected countries in the European Union are under increasing pressure. I continue to believe that the solution to this migration crisis must be based on the following principles. Only European cooperation, not isolated national actions, can handle migration. I want to reject the illusion and I want to reject some of the proposals that are very often emerging, which say: Let us rid ourselves of the migration crisis by stepping out of the European Union. Let us get rid of the migration crisis by fenceing the Czech Republic and letting no one in at all. These simple recipes are recipes that would in no way work to cope with the migration crisis, and sooner or later the problem, if it is not solved at a European level, would have affected very much the life here in the Czech Republic. Refugees are not an organized army. In the migration wave, refugees are mixed before the war in Syria, refugees before the war in Iraq, and they are mixed with economic migrants who come from countries where there is no war, such as Pakistan. Europe is now paying attention to the fact that it has effectively ignored the war in Syria for four years, and we are also paying attention to the fact that, following the overthrow of Saddám Husajn's regime, there has been no long-term need for sustainable stability. Without peace in Syria, without defeating the Islamic State, millions of people from the Middle East will want to leave Europe in a short time. We also need to work together with the countries neighbouring the European Union to deal with the migration crisis. In particular, Turkey must cooperate with us to address this migration crisis. There is a need to support countries that take care of hundreds of thousands and millions of refugees today. These countries need to be supported because they take care of them outside the borders of the European Union. I am referring not only to Turkey, but also to Jordan and I am thinking of Lebanon. In my opinion, too, immigration policy must have rules and must have limits. In my opinion, Europe must help people who run from war and who run from persecution, but cannot do so at the cost of their own threat. The security aspect of addressing the migration crisis is crucial, especially because of Islamist radicals. The basic regulation of migration must take place at the external Schengen border. The protection of the external Schengen border needs to be strengthened and the external border strengthened, once again a pan-European task. If, honourable Members, too many refugees come to Europe in too short a time, this makes their good integration impossible and increases the risk of conflict. Therefore, a significant reduction, regulation and control of the current migration wave is a prerequisite for successful integration and maintenance of security. Likewise, the application of individual responsibility, not the principle of collective guilt, is important. [[11.10 hours]] For the start of the debate that we will have in the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of the migration crisis, let me start with some basic information. The Balkan route was clearly the most frequented last year. The migratory current on this Balkan route clearly exceeds the Mediterranean maritime route which runs in Italy. There are currently two to two and a half million Syrian refugees in Turkey. In November, according to the statistics of the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees, more than 57,000 applications for international protection were registered in Germany. The most early requests made in Germany, which is an important target country for migration waves, were reported by Syrian nationals in November, followed by people from Afghanistan and Iraq. According to the statistics of EASO Syria in November, for the seventh month, it was the first position in the number of applications submitted for international protection. Given that the migration wave has not yet been reduced and the situation at the external borders consolidated, a number of Member States, in particular those that are the target countries of migration waves, are taking action that is taken at national level. In December Sweden officially applied for inclusion among those Member States from which it is to be reserved. Austria subsequently requested exclusion from the obligation to participate in the relocation as an receiving State in view of the high numbers of asylum seekers already located in its territory. Sweden wants to use the possibility of 54,000 relocations available, originally intended in the second relocation scheme for Hungary. Although it can certainly be understood that Sweden is at the limit of its capacity, I consider this approach to be non-systemic. In order for a common European solution to work, protection of the external border is needed, registration of those arriving at the points of first entry into the European Union is needed. The Swedish proposal once again addresses the consequences instead of solving the causes. Countries such as Denmark, Finland, Norway, but also Sweden have acceded to proposals for amendments to asylum law in order to speed up the procedure and prevent its abuse. Even with France, Slovenia and Austria, these target countries have introduced gradually increased controls at internal borders with a reference to ensuring internal security. Austria has also begun to build a fence on part of its border with Slovenia. Slovenia launched the concept of returning economic migrants at national level. Only citizens of states in war conflict are trying to enter the country, that is to say, citizens of Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. It returns people back to Croatia, which naturally led to an avalanche response in the Western Balkans, and the reaction ended with the closure of the Macedonia-Greece border for economic migrants. Slovenia has also begun to build a fence on its border with Croatia. As I have tried to describe, honourable Members, we have witnessed in the last few months the uncoordinated reaction of the Member States of the European Union, which are trying to do with their own efforts, particularly with regard to the Balkan countries, to solve a problem that goes beyond its meaning and scope. The fact that it is not yet mentioned in the life of a single European crisis management is, as a result, becoming a threat to the Schengen area, a threat to the free movement of persons within the Schengen area. We see that the viable solution is not an approved redistribution mechanism, which I will be talking about in a little while. The solution is to get migration under control through external border control, functional registration in hotspots, cooperation in return policy with the countries of origin and support for the countries of origin to offer at least some perspective to their people again. As I mentioned earlier, the migration wave is closely linked to the war conflict in Syria. As long as it doesn't desist, and until it's severely restricted in its expansion by the Islamic State, it's hard to find a really effective recipe for the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now comment on the development of the situation in the Czech Republic. From the beginning of 2015 until the end of October last year, 387 persons were granted international protection here in the Czech Republic. From October to mid-November, 20 people with protection were added, and from mid-November to mid-December, 49 more were added. These figures include both those who have been granted asylum status and those with supplementary protection. In particular, we granted asylum to 71 persons in the Czech Republic and 385 persons in the Czech Republic. In the case of international protection, we are bound by the obligations of international law and are bound by our applicable legislation, namely the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Asylum Act. The Ministry of the Interior decided to grant international protection on the basis of a proper process, the same legal process that it applied for years before. The 2015 figures that I mentioned here show that the Czech Republic is not the destination of the migration wave and that we are lying on the edge of the main migration route, which last year worked mainly through the Balkan Peninsula. Then there's the relocation process. It is this process that is covered by the decision of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 22 September last year, which, as you know, has been set up by so-called one-off quotas. As part of this relocation process, we are to relocate the 2,691 people from Italy and Greece. In the interest of a constructive approach, which we also expect at European level in return for the Czech Republic, this decision is respected by the Czech Republic. What is extremely important, however, is that, in order to move someone through the relocation mechanism at all, the promised hotspots will finally work in Greece and Italy. It's a long way from optimal functioning here. Registration is complicated, the rules change, there are suspicions of various non-standard procedures. The proof that the idea of hotspots has not yet been fully put into practice is that while 16 Member States have already offered free capacities for reception of asylum seekers within relocations, the total number of displaced persons is barely at one tenth of these capacities. The European countries offered capacity for 1,660 people by December, 160 were relocated; 130 Italy and only 30 persons from Greece. Refugees from Italy left Germany, France, Finland, Spain and Sweden, refugees from Greece were transferred to Luxembourg. The most recent information is that 82 persons were relocated from Greece and 190 persons from Italy at the beginning of January. A total of six hotspots are supposed to work in Italy. The Czech Republic is also involved in helping refugees before the war through resettlement programmes. At the end of last year, we helped to travel to three families with sick children. They're three Syrian families from Jordan. We have already approved this resettlement programme at the beginning of last year and will continue in cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees. As part of this program, which is intended to bring help to sick children in several Syrian families, we choose displaced families in full compliance with how we defined the rules. [[11.20 hours]] Last December, the government also decided to relocate 153 Iraqi nationals from the Republic of Iraq and Lebanon to the Czech Republic. We decided to do so at the request of the Generation 21 foundation fund. These are internally displaced refugees of the Christian religion who are under the same conditions as refugees from Syria or refugees in Kurdistan territory. Although the Kurdish government is trying to help these internally displaced refugees, it is under great pressure, and we will partly help it with this displacement. Therefore, the government has also entered into a cooperation agreement with the Generation 21 Foundation on the basis of which these 153 persons will be relocated to the Czech Republic. The foundation fund is to participate in this organizationally and financially. His partner party for the government is the Ministry of the Interior, who will be in charge of legal procedures including security clearances. Before I go to the European level, which is absolutely essential in dealing with the current situation, I would also like to mention some of the other measures that we have taken in the Czech Republic with a view to the ongoing wave of migration. The government meets regularly at the level of the coordinating body at the Ministry of the Interior about the migration situation. This allows us to respond flexibly to all needs. In this area, we have achieved a calming down of the situation in the area of illegal migration. From June last year to last week, a total of 3 315 persons were provided in the Czech Republic as part of the so-called transit illegal migration, with the most secured persons here in the Czech Republic in September and August. These persons, who usually went to countries other than the Czech Republic, were provided in so-called detention facilities in accordance with applicable law. As of 19 January 98 persons were registered in the Czech detention facilities. Most of them are members of Iraq, Afghanistan and Ukraine. Our approach, which the Czech Republic applies, based on compliance with applicable law, based on compliance with agreements from Dublin, based on preventive checks, led to restrictions on illegal transit migration through the Czech Republic. Transmitters, human traffickers know that the Czech Republic does not tolerate the illegal movement of migrants in its territory. Thanks to the same thing, we have also managed the initial overcrowding of some detection devices, managed to set the proper conditions in all these devices without any serious excess. I would like to thank all those involved in this and who did not make the situation worse by escalating pressure at the time, but with a cool head went into its solution. Police files, employees of facilities for refugees and helping organizations have done a good job in my opinion. As part of the coordination of migration-related activities, we approved several changes last November. One. We assume that this year will increase the number of people we will legally accept from us. We made a commitment to receive 2,691 people in the framework of relocations. Our duty is to prepare for their potential arrival. That is why we have changed the state integration programme so that it can apply to these people and have sufficient resources. As part of its operation, we are ready to help the arrivals with housing, knowledge of the Czech language and their entry into the labour market. Two. We have extended and stabilized the MEDEVAC medical program and the special program of the Ministry of the Interior. Both serve to provide support and assistance to refugees abroad, ideally in countries of origin or in countries that actually face enormous burdens as a result of the arrival of a large number of refugees. I've already talked about Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan. MEDEVAC will cover 60 million crowns a year. We have allocated an additional 40 million to emergency assistance in the Ministry of the Interior, with a permanent programme for states facing migration problems having an annual budget of approximately CZK 100 million. As part of this programme managed by the Ministry of the Interior, we supported, for example, the improvement of the infrastructure of the refugee camp in Zátarí in cooperation with the UNHCR. This financial contribution by the Czech Republic in this camp, where more than 80,000 refugees from Syria live, will allow for a secure electricity network to be built to ensure a regular and stable supply to all residents of the refugee camp. Other funds will go to a similar project in Iraqi Kurdistan, we have also allocated CZK 10 million to help Turkey and also to help Serbia. All this in addition to development aid in the Gesture of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I would like to mention thirdly. From January to the end of September 2015, 35 projects in 21 countries were supported from the humanitarian budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once again, we focused on the countries of origin of migration, supported projects in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Jordan, Lebanon, Gaza, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Niger, the Central African Republic or Ukraine. The government has taken all these steps that I have described here without being forced to do so without wanting to please anyone. It was our sovereign decision in line with the position we had from the start. We want to help where we need to help. We are a government that feels responsible, and we want the Czech Republic to be responsible in the current migration crisis. We cannot pretend that the migration crisis does not concern us. It concerns everyone because it is caused by wars, caused by suffering, inhuman conditions, and itself as a process creates enormous social and political tensions. I have named specific forms by which we, as a state, participate in helping people in need. I believe that this is an effective form of assistance within our capabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Let me now focus on what has happened in recent months at European level, where the Czech Republic has also been an active player. A number of important negotiations have taken place since October. A meeting took place in La Valletta, which followed the extraordinary informal European Council. The European Union - Turkey summit took place at the end of November and the December European Council. We are now preparing for the February European Council. As regards the meeting in La Valletta, this took place in November 2015. The political declaration of the Action Plan for cooperation with African partners has been approved. This is therefore a specific plan concerning strengthening the infrastructure of African states in order to be able to respond better to migration-related problems. I find it extremely important that this action plan has quite specific commitments concerning the fight against smuggling, trafficking and trafficking in human beings, as well as in the area of documenting the citizens of these African countries, but also in the area of readmission agreements and return policy. By the end of this year at the latest, the countries of origin of migration and transit should have their own strategies, there should be an improved exchange of information and cooperation should be improved with regard to the fight against crime related to migration. The capacity of authorities in African states in charge of return policy should also be strengthened. [[11.30 hours]] In Malta, we also agreed to establish a trust fund for Africa. The Czech Republic will, of course, actively participate in the functioning of this trust fund with its own financial contribution. At the same time, the V4 countries agreed to strengthen their representation from the point of view of experts in Frontex and EASO structures. Immediately after the meeting in Valletta, which focused on the southern migration route, the extraordinary European Council followed. Finally, it dealt with what, in our view, the European Union should primarily address, and this is the question of protecting the external Schengen border and ensuring functional hotspots at the external borders. In the opinion of the Czech Republic, the protection of external borders must be organised. It requires a link between border control itself and registration centres, which will enable us to control who enters the European area and where. Then he can follow up the asylum procedure. Another important issue of this European Council meeting was cooperation with third countries, not only with African countries, but also with Middle East countries, especially Turkey and the countries of the Western Balkans. The European Union - Turkey Action Plan has been prepared. I am very pleased that the European Council meeting took place on 29 November, with Turkey's participation. In the negotiations with the Turkish Party, as a representative of the Czech Republic, I stressed the need to concentrate on the management and protection of common borders and also on the fight against smuggling and smuggling on Turkish territory. If we want to prevent further tragedies at sea while ensuring control over the European Union's external borders, it is necessary to establish effective cooperation, particularly between Greece, Turkey and between Frontex and Europol. Turkey must then take the necessary measures not to provide a free field of competence for human trafficking and smugglers. These were our priorities, our expectations for which we were willing to offer both material and expert assistance to Turkey. However, the European Union - Turkey agreement must be implemented from both sides. The principles of cooperation with Turkey were defined by the European Union and Turkey's Action Plan for Cooperation prior to the summit. We approved that at the end of October. It stands on two pillars. Firstly, Turkey needs to enforce its applicable laws consistently. We say that if Turkey is not doing everything the laws allow it to mitigate the migration flow to Europe, it should start doing so immediately. The conditions for refugees living in Turkey, improvements in registration, asylum procedures and their integration into Turkish society should be improved, which also includes better access to the Turkish labour market. There should be a fight against smuggling and trafficking. We also want to improve the exchange of information with Turkey, start organising return actions and support Turkey in the fight against organised crime. As a result of this action plan, Turkey should increase the effectiveness of the Coast Guard, take back migrants who are not entitled to asylum and cooperate with Greece and Bulgaria in border control. Ladies and gentlemen, I mention the agreement with Turkey on this very purpose. It must be borne in mind that Turkey is a key partner of the European Union in tackling the migration crisis, but not only in addressing the migration crisis, in stabilizing the entire region of the Middle East. Turkey is a member of NATO, a member of the anti-terrorist coalition. And at the recent incident with Russia, we could watch live how important it is today to maintain a rational approach framed by clearly agreed rules. As Turkey's NATO membership helped prevent the escalation of the Turkish-Russian air conflict, a clear European guarantee framework for mutual cooperation, especially as regards states at common borders, is needed. Why is Turkey important? Over 550 thousand joined the European Union in the first ten months of 2015. migrants just across the Turkish-Greece border. Over half a million people! This is an unprecedented increase in frequency on this route compared to the previous year. A similar effect can be repeated in the case of Bulgaria. The Syrian crisis will continue this year, and it is not in the interest of anyone to be surprised by the unexpected reversal of developments due to insufficient information exchange, as a result of the absence of a partner approach, by the absence of rules for common solutions. I'm glad there's a deal with Turkey. What we need now is a check on its compliance and the mutual implementation of this agreement. In the middle of December last year, the European Council followed, where we addressed the need to ensure control at the external borders. This December European Council was very important because it decided to implement a proposal that we, as the Czech Republic at European level, have long been promoting, namely the establishment of a common European Border and Coast Guard. We have proposed the establishment of this institution as the Czech Republic many months in advance. I have repeatedly spoken on this subject at the European Council meetings. I am therefore very glad that this idea was finally accepted. There is no doubt that this has been contributed to the concern of continued control at external borders, which threatens the whole Schengen area. We also pointed out this as the Czech Republic from the very beginning. The European Commission has incorporated a proposal for the establishment of a common coastal and border guard in a comprehensive package of measures to protect external borders. In addition to this proposal, it also includes a change in the rules on security in the Schengen area, namely systematic checks through relevant databases for all persons entering or leaving the Schengen area. I would like to inform you that the Government of the Czech Republic supported this package in its opinion adopted on 18 January this year. What I think is important is that a return office should also be created within the common European Border and Coast Guard, which should provide Member States with the necessary support to enable them to effectively return illegally staying persons. The Agency should coordinate and organise return operations of Member States and, in the case of countries facing excessive migration pressure, it will be able to promote such return even on its own initiative. I think that what Europe needs as one of the signals that not everyone who decides to come to Europe can get asylum in Europe is just a functioning return policy that will work really towards countries like Turkey, but also countries like Pakistan. Another measure approved at European Council level concerning the current European package is the question of systematic controls and identification. There is an effort to avoid hiding a true identity. It also includes a proposal for the creation of a European travel document, which will be issued for the purpose of return policy. These are therefore the main proposals presented by the European Commission before the European Council's December meeting. For the Czech Republic, the priority is the accelerated adoption of all instruments that will contribute to the reduction of migration to the European Union, in particular through enhanced and consistent protection of exposed parts of the external border. Ladies and gentlemen, let me go back to a question which is also very important for the Czech Republic, and this is cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans. [[11.40 hours]] The Czech Republic is one of the countries that are aware that, in addition to helping countries that are affected here in the long term by being on the migration route, there is a need to provide a maximum of broad support, including support in the form of assistance from the police and in the form of humanitarian support. I am very pleased that the Czech Republic is among the few European countries that have managed to send police officers and military equipment, including military forces, to Hungary. We are among the countries that help to regulate migration in Slovenia, and we are specifically going to help in Macedonia. I am also glad that many of our spontaneously organized volunteers also worked in the Western Balkans route. These people went there personally to help, to carry material aid, blankets, clothing, food, medicines. I think that these voluntary and charitable activities that have taken place here have been very well complemented by the help provided by the Czech Government to the governments of Hungary, Slovenia, but also to the governments of Serbia and Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the security dimension in relation to the current migration crisis. All of us were deeply affected by the brutal terrorist attacks in Paris last November. I am convinced that we cannot identify terrorists who systematically attack our values and try to create fear in us, automatically identify with refugees who very often flee from these Islamist radicals. Murders in Paris, and then murders in Istanbul, Mali, Jakarta and elsewhere around the world, these murders are caused by well-organized Islamist radicals. The Czech Republic is part of an international coalition against terrorism and we will look for ways to contribute to this international fight against terrorism. We do not underestimate any of the issues relating to ensuring adequate internal security in the Czech Republic. Since last year, we have strengthened the police and intelligence services, which can now afford more people and more efficient activities. Following the increased risk of terrorist attacks in Europe, we have decided to develop a new security risk assessment system on our territory, if you wish, a security audit. I also watched carefully how the announcement of an emergency in France, the highest level in Brussels, and the actions and activities that followed. There is no doubt the need for European intelligence services to communicate with one another as effectively as possible. At the very beginning of this week, the Security Council of the State met. The State Security Council discussed the material prepared by the Home Secretary, which is called a counterterrorism package. The counterterrorism package contains a number of legislative and non-legislative measures that can effectively help combat and prevent terrorism in the Czech Republic. The government will deal with it shortly. Among other things, we are concerned with improving citizens' awareness in the event that there is currently a threat of terrorism. The government also proposes to establish four new levels of security threats to terrorism, including the system of their announcement and adequate response. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interests of all of us to prevent panic and hysteria in Europe. It is in the interest of all of us to maintain our capacity, to defend our democratic and liberal values, from which we must not give in at any cost, and this also applies to freedom of speech. It is wrong and it would be wrong if people feel that some problems must not be discussed. Such a feeling today may be felt by people in Germany in connection with the New Year's Eve events in Cologne. And it's a very strange failure to the media there. In the same way, if someone reports an offence or offence, the State must find the culprit and enforce justice and that the State is responsible for ensuring security. But freedom of speech must not mean her abuse to break up, incite violence and hatred. Such things are prohibited by the Czech rule of law because they undermine the democratic system and thus decent, reasonable and safe coexistence. I want to emphasise once again: the path is in respect of reason and in respect of rules. honourable Members, those who today apply for asylum in European countries must respect the laws and rules. If asylum seekers do not appreciate the assistance offered if they commit crimes, this must be a quick way to expel them outside the European Union. In my speech, honourable Members, I described the main levels on which the Czech Republic could respond and also respond to the ongoing migration crisis, both the levels relating to the national response and our activities at European level, our activities towards countries outside Europe. What's ahead of us at this point? What should we focus on these days and weeks? In cooperation with Turkey and Greece, it is necessary to achieve restrictions and regulations on migration on the Balkan route in order to significantly reduce the number of refugees coming to Central and Western Europe. This requires strengthening border surveillance both in Turkey and Greece. If these measures are not effective, the border between Bulgaria, Macedonia and Greece will need to be used more strongly to regulate migration. In this case Bulgaria and Macedonia should receive strong personnel and strong financial support from the European Union. If this measure is not implemented, we will see the borders of countries in Central and South-East Europe being closed. The Czech Republic will be ready. And if the migration pressure on our territory increases, we will strengthen the security of our borders through police and army members, as we have already organized in 2015. Although we are ready to close part of our borders, the Czech Government clearly prefers a common European solution before closing the borders. The Czech Republic will continue to try to help this European solution and we will strongly support the common European solution. There is a February meeting of the European Council ahead. If - and it seems that no other extraordinary European Council will be convened - if we meet only in mid-February, then the Czech Republic will clearly act in favour of the strongest possible protection of the external Schengen border, in order to implement the agreements that have been concluded with Turkey, in order to be able to calm the situation in the countries that lie around the borders of the European Union. The Czech Government will continue to fulfil our commitments, including the commitments we have given our citizens, to do everything necessary to ensure security here in the Czech Republic and to ensure the prevention of any risks that may be associated with the migration wave. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u3	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. I am now launching a general debate at which there are several factual points at the beginning. The first, with a factual point, is Mr Mihola, followed by Mr Okamura, Mr Fiedler, Mr Černoch and others. So I'm going to ask my colleague Mihola to speak with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Prime Minister's extensive speech, as well as the Government of the Czech Republic's approach to tackling the migration crisis. One of the reasons why KDU-ČSL proposed to include a point dedicated to migration was to strengthen the position of the Government of the Czech Republic as much as possible for all negotiations that will lead in connection with the refugee crisis. In this context, I also have a resolution prepared, which has been made available in paper and electronic form to all Members' Club Chairs. It is now already in the system, as House document No. 3567, and it accepts the adjustments made by TOP 09, to which I hereby thank for its cooperation. I will literally introduce you to the resolution in my speech to the priority right, because I wouldn't be able to do it now for time reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And since you have spoken first, I will ask you to take the position of rapporteur. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] Now, with Mr Okamura's point of fact, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u6	Dear Prime Minister, your government is currently trying to move against the will of citizens of illegal immigrants to Rabbit in Eastern Bohemia. Citizens of Rabbit at Usteckoorlick are desperately resisting your vulgar dictatorship, and therefore, the day before yesterday, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, together with the citizens of Rabbit, has declared a national petition to the citizens of the city of Rabbit in the Pardubice Region, who are resisting the location of any kind of immigrant facility in their city. Your government is trying to place African and Arab immigrants in Rabbit against their will, as your government has already agreed to accept thousands of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic, the ANO and the KDU-ČSL movement last year, and now the government plan is being implemented. The citizens of Rabbit publicly in front of journalists the day before yesterday at our press conference here in the House announced that they had learned of the purpose of your government on Facebook! This is an incredibly awful way for your government to treat citizens, to despise them, to despise citizens! Citizens Rabbit, due to your government's decision, are threatened with increased crime, depreciation of property prices, departure of companies from the region, increased unemployment and social tensions. Hetman of the Pardubice Region Netolický of the ČSSD said he was in favour of receiving migrants, but Rabbits are not a suitable location. So, Prime Minister, can you tell the citizens of the Czech Republic on the level and without dialing which locality your government in the Czech Republic considers appropriate for the thousands of Arab and African immigrants you have agreed to? I therefore ask that the citizens of these cities and municipalities may begin to defend themselves in time. And I promise that I and our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, will help all citizens to defy this incredible violent dictation of your government and of the European Union, as we are now helping the citizens of Králíky to resist your government. All this time, I say that there is a need to introduce zero tolerance for illegal immigration and close borders. And for starters, we could stop using the misleading and false word of a fugitive. Let us begin by using the true designation of an illegal or illegal immigrant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u7	In view of the number of factual remarks, I merely quote the Rules of Procedure in order to know what the factual observations serve. It is § 60 para. 1: "The Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the course of the debate. A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark. However, it does not provide for factual opinions on the issue under consideration.' So much for order. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Fiedler, after which Mr Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not take advantage of the factual comment on the presentation of my views and I will actually respond to what has been said here by the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's speech did not fail and was rather a presentation of what happened, a description of the situation, and not what we, as Members in the Chamber of Deputies, would expect - as the Government and the Czech Republic are prepared to address the continuation of this migration crisis. Because from all sides, we hear information that it will continue in a stronger intensity than it has been so far. Those are the assumptions. Talking about what Turkey should do, how it should proceed, what should happen there, these are, through Mr President, Prime Minister, really things that we probably had other ideas here, when we will not hear any conditionalities about Turkey and the Turkish state, although this issue is closely related to it, but we are certainly interested in it, and I therefore call you on how the government is prepared to respond to this, to a situation that will be that immigrants from Germany can get to us freely, because we are within one Schengen area. In Germany, what will he do with them? How will we address the growing problems that await us, which we hear from all sides? I would ask for a concrete message of what the government is prepared to do, what concrete steps it is preparing to take. What will we do if the situation at our borders is unsustainable or the situation at the borders of the external Schengen area? Again, describing the state is probably not what we expected from this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Černoch. Mr. Holík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister spoke of interests but interests of other states. Not citizens of the Czech Republic and interests of the Czech Republic. And Prime Minister, you're lying when you say we want to close the Czech Republic! We do not want to close the Czech Republic, we only require strict control at the borders of the Czech Republic. In the same way, I think it's a lie if you say the migration crisis isn't an invasion. The migration crisis is an invasion, it has all the parameters of the invasion, and if we don't start fighting this invasion right now, it will end up with the whole of Europe and not just with the Czech Republic very badly. Furthermore, I would like to say that I consider it completely scandalous when the Minister of Human Rights, Minister of your Government, Minister Dienstbier, has taken up sexual attacks in Germany on New Year's Silvestr. Because you're saying you're going to require the rule of law. At this point, the people who come with the migration wave were breaking the law and the law. I consider such acts to be outrageous by the Minister of Human Rights. One more comment on border guards and Schengen guards. Official information says that the first proposals should be discussed only in the middle of this year. The first proposals are already unrealistic, because we already know that Greece, Italy, will not agree to troops and border guards entering their territory. In the middle of this year, when the migration wave is to regain its strength at the beginning of spring, that is, March of this year. This means that when the migration wave is culminating, it will only begin to be some coastal or border guard. [[Attention, time's up.]] I would like you to answer this question, whether you consider this guard real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u11	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Holík. Mr. Šarapatka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic is not one of the countries with strong social support. That's why the immigrants have been neglected so far. I said, see you later! If social benefits in rich Western countries fall, the tide shifts towards us. All of you will find a point in the materials dealt - for the Czech Republic the priority is the adoption of tools for reducing migrants. I myself think there's no need to invent anything complicated. Let us simply give migrants the same conditions as the native Čech, the people who built our economy. If you want to be here, you'll go to work properly and fill out performance standards. You will be entitled to social benefits only after a certain period of time has been worked out. You will honor Czech culture, Czech religion and local traditions. You will maintain order and hygiene around your dwellings. The riots and transgressions will not be forgiven you, and you will be punished just like any working Čech. We will not tolerate a statement: you have invited us here, Mrs Merklová, you must not do anything to us. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I wonder how many sunmen will be attacked for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u13	Thank you. The next is Mr Šarapatka and Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u14	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is well known that I am not a supporter of any populist activities such as Bártův's úsvit, Konvička or anything, but I think that the subject here is really important. On the subject of the Prime Minister, I would like to say that it was a lot of words and little action. There were a lot of descriptions here, but no concrete steps we've taken or taken have actually been made here. There was talk of pan-European cooperation. As far as I know, Frontex has existed since 2004. What's happened since then? Nothing at all. And the fact that some European countries are trying to protect their borders today is precisely because they are not protected by those European, Schengen borders. There was talk of cooperation with Turkey. I highly doubt it. I consider the move taken by the European Commission or the European Union to be a way to bribe Turkey, not to cooperate with it, because Turkey has completely different interests from what we have from logic. Yes, let us help him, but the moment that Turkey does its job without fail, not trying to bribe him. I think the Prime Minister here has completely forgotten to discuss the role of Germany, because if it were not for Germany to open wide arms and tell all immigrants to come to us, you'd be fine with us, so they wouldn't be rushing towards us. About the specific steps. I heard a few days ago that the Chief of Staff promised 300 soldiers to protect our borders. So I really think 300 soldiers will be very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u15	Thank you. Mr. Ondráček will prepare for the microphone for Mrs. Langšádlová. There are still factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u16	Hello, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I agree with the words the Prime Minister has said. I believe that Europe has a chance to resolve the situation, that we have a chance to resolve the migration crisis, but it is a crisis. And if there is a crisis, we must move towards crisis management, we must allocate sufficient capacity, finance, resources, and we must act quickly. I agree with what the Prime Minister has said here, I agree with what the European Commission translates. I believe that these are the right steps, but we really need to realise that for some time we simply have to say that this is a priority, and if something is a priority, other issues, other agendas are to be suspended, we have to allocate enough resources and really act quickly. That's the biggest risk. The fact that the proposals that are good are not being implemented and are not being accepted at sufficient speed. Yes, we must have border control, we must have functional hotspots, we must enforce law. Yes, we must have a return policy, we should even set up a humanitarian agency, because we cannot afford to leave everything on non-profit organizations in the Balkans. In short, we can see that the Balkan countries will fall apart and we will have another crisis here, as it was in the 1990s. All these steps are correct, a strategic agreement with Turkey, but clear deadlines, real terms must be given, clear responsibilities must be given and sufficient resources must be given. That's the problem. We really don't have time. We must not lose our part of solidarity, but above all responsibility, because states must act responsibly, ensuring security for their citizens. We must not allow the natural process to happen. And I really do beseech you, Prime Minister, to push for a quick solution. Quick solutions to the implementation of the steps you have been talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u17	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. Mr Ondráček's microphone, Mr Andrle will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have said, and I must say that I am very disappointed in what you have said here, because you are already speaking as a Brussels politician. It's just absolutely nothing. It should be, we assume, but nothing factual. And if you believe what you've been saying, at least halfway through it, I sincerely feel sorry for you, because what you're saying about Turkey, it's just a tragedy. Border guard. That's how you know how to evilibristy with words... If I take your document Development of the Police of the Czech Republic 2016 to 2020, which you approved last week. You say: Border security, we are able, we will close the borders, we are ready. Well, I'll read you what you wrote in your document: a newly developed crisis plan for a large-scale migration wave, in which I am. envisages the re-establishing of controls, not closure, and generates new requirements for human and financial resources at internal borders. This plan involves forces - listen well - 3 655 police officers, 1 513 soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic and costs of CZK 221.5 million per month. We are only talking about re-establishing controls at border, road and rail crossings. We can't close the state line so it's impenetrable. You're talking about closing the borders to make it look like. Face it, we just don't have it, and we're not ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u19	Thank you, please, for Mr Andrle's microphone, Mrs Němcová will be ready. I'll ask my colleagues not to shout in the hall. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. I may have joined the general debate, but unfortunately I had to sign up here. I'll skip the introduction and start with specific things. Perhaps you will agree with me when I say that Syria is the country that is among the most affected and the most devastated among the war. After all, if you look at the statistics of the Ministry of the Interior that went to your e-mails every week - and I thank you for the insights, Minister Chovanč - almost half of the migrants on our territory were from Syria. The government allocated a certain amount through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for immediate assistance, but this amount is insufficient. Five projects related directly to Syria have entered the grant call for immediate assistance. One of these projects initiated the Military and Hospital Order of St. Lazarus of Jerusalem, of which I am a chamber, in cooperation with an inter-European group of friends for Syria and the Middle East led by Mrs Margita Balaštíková and the Dawn Party - the National Coalition. If we actually receive a subsidy of 2.5 million, we can provide accommodation for more than 500 families for one year in Syria through the patriarch of the order of Lazar jeho blaženost Laham Řehoř III, who runs a Christian hospital in Damascus. I know it's not much, but for starters, it's better than just beating up empty straw here at this counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u21	Ambassador, I'm afraid your time is up. And let me give you one more warning. Our colleague warned all of us what a factual remark serves. If you allow me, this is not a factual point, you do not respond to the debate. I ask that we do not abuse the factual point. Thank you. Please get to the microphone of Mrs Němcová, Mr Černoch will be ready. All factual points. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will say what I missed in the Prime Minister's speech. The British Prime Minister arrives in the Czech Republic tomorrow, if I'm not mistaken, David Cameron. The United Kingdom has presented the European Union with the conditions that they essentially mean - if they are met, Great Britain remains part of the EU; If they are not met, we will probably vote on our withdrawal from the referendum. I wanted to know the Prime Minister's position, which did not even mention this meeting, on the demands of the UK concerning: 1. Strengthening the EU's competitiveness, reducing red tape. The Czech Government wants to support this, doesn't it? 2. Strengthening the powers of national parliaments at the expense of the European Parliament. Will President Sobotka agree with David Cameron in foreign negotiations in this regard? 3. Ensuring the rights of non-euro area members so that euro area members cannot overvote them on financial matters. Are you going to take the same position, or are you not going to take the same position? I want to know the President's opinion on the fourth request of the British Prime Minister to reduce social benefits for EU immigrants. I mean, these are things that are going to be dealt with tomorrow. The European Council will meet in February. Donald Tusk says in agreement with Jean-Claude Juncker that if something doesn't happen within two months, Schengen is falling apart. There are elections in Germany on which Mrs Merkelová stands or falls, because it is probably the two-month deadline on which these EU figures have now agreed. I have not heard a mention of any of these things in the Prime Minister's speech, and since we do not know when this debate will continue, because I have the impression that the game is being played to be extended so as not to have a resolution, I have to ask in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u23	Thank you, Madame. Next is Mr Černoch, then Mr Okamura - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u24	Thanks again for the word. Those two minutes are not enough to ask questions, so I would just have one more question, because from your performance, Prime Minister, it has come to my attention that the government will follow Angela Merkelová's policy and feel that we must help all those who come to Europe, even if it threatens the citizens of the Czech Republic. You were talking about the integration program, and I'd like to ask you one thing. Integration programme means language advisor, housing and work. Who's gonna pay for all this? How the time of integration will take place. If these people are doing any community service because it seems unfair to our citizens to give someone a free place to live. How many people have free housing with us? How many people get a job or are they helped to find a job? I will forget that I do not believe that people who come from countries like the Middle East, such as Africa, are even integratable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit and I would like to see Mr Okamura's microphone. And I hope he comes up with a factual one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u26	Allow me to respond to the Prime Minister's speech. You were talking about the Council of Europe. Prime Minister, in German and European cities, African and Arab immigrants are forbidden access to the swimming pool because women are harassing and attacking, and you have written to the Council of Europe - I quote: "Building a tolerant society is one of the priorities of your government that will oppose any form of violence, hostility or discrimination." Like in German and European cities, some Moravian and Czech cities responded years ago, prohibiting the entry of aggressive and drunken rioters or thieves. At that time, Rom people protested the ban, which affected the measures the most, and they called it racist and discriminatory. The Council of Europe also considers such a measure discriminatory. So what do you think is more discrimination? Is it that we restrict the rights of an aggressive and inadaptable minority so that it does not harm a decent majority, or is discrimination when we force a decent majority to suffer attacks by an inadaptable minority? Prime Minister, do you consider the ban on Arab and African immigrants discriminatory? If so, will you protest in February, as you spoke here in your speech, at the Council of Europe? If not, will you support similar measures against the inadaptable ones in our country? Of course, I'd like that. And I wanted to conclude by saying that as long as the Czech Republic is under the EU's dictation, you will not solve anything. You will only speak, and you do not have the courage to resist this invasion, so you have already agreed to the thousands of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic. And I was talking about those Králíky where desperate citizens are resisting it. And if you have the courage to defend the Czech Republic, I propose a resolution that the Czech Republic will not respect EU decisions on quotas and will not accept illegal immigrants. But just to remind you that three times you have rejected our proposal for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, for a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, and last week you rejected us a petition by more than 100,000 Czech citizens for a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, signed both online and in writing. So allow the citizens of democracy to decide their future!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u27	I would just like to add, Mr President, that you cannot make a resolution on a factual point and, therefore, you are once again being abused by a factual remark. I will interrupt you next time because the Rules of Procedure are very clear. If you wish to make such a statement and to present motions for resolutions, this is what the debate serves in detail for. Next in line, prosit, and that is Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Mr. Holík will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u28	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, in a factual remark, I will only respond to the fact that I lack a fundamental thing in the Prime Minister's speech. Any migration crisis can only be dealt with when the causes of the crisis are resolved. And we've learned here maybe what the government is trying to do, how it wants to deal with it. I do not suppose that the causes of the crisis and their resolution will be presented by the Minister of the Interior, who is enrolled in a proper debate, but I therefore ask that in the debate add to the position of the Government on the resolution of the causes of the crisis, that is to say, the solution to the Syrian problem in particular, our involvement in this matter and the removal of these causes of migration, including negotiations with Turkey, the Foreign Minister, so that I do not have to respond to this in my proper speech, because this seriously was not the Government's report on the resolution of the migration crisis. That was the report, Mr President, on how we only deal with the consequences. And that's really not enough!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u29	Thank you and please to Mr Holík's microphone, Mr Schwarzenberg will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote the Prime Minister's words. We need to create a backup border system on the Bulgaria-Macedonia line so that we can regulate migration if it has failed in Turkey or Greece. So that would mean the fence of Greece. Although it is a proposal that is not directly contrary to European rules, it is very strange. We all know that three quarters of a million migrants crossed this Balkan road last year, but only 121,000 were fingerprinted. All these people were mostly headed to Germany, where there are more than a million of them today. After New Year's Eve, the opposition to these immigrants rose so much that there is no choice but to take any other measures. I accept that Prime Minister Sobotka's proposal is to make a gate in the Balkans to preserve the Schengen area. Of course, if we cut Greece off here, at that point, immigrants will find their way somewhere else. So the only solution is just to make sure they don't come here, to reduce the grant policy. And what are we gonna do about the million we already have here? We'll return a few thousand, but most of them stay here. And if we want to ensure the safety of our people, we need to do this to assimilate among people, so that there is no ghetto where there are laws, ghettos where police are afraid to go during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u31	I thank Mr Schwarzenberg's microphone, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u32	Madam President, honourable Members, I thank the Prime Minister for his long talk. However, given that the conflict in Syria is very cruel, very serious, and the end of the influx of refugees is too much bound to ask what the Turek should do, that we should take the conditions in Syria and Iraq to bring people back, which I do not see for years to come. I see, it's clear that some of the refugees are staying here. I lack a plan how to integrate these people, how their children learn Czech, how to teach them themselves in Czech, so that they can work here, because if we just keep them in the camp, we will create problems for the future. Please be realistic and know that we will have to integrate refugees as quickly as possible and as best as possible. Everything else is cheating on yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Blažek's microphone, please. The chairman of ODS Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u34	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I am a member of the opposition, but I will have no complaints now, but rather a request to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The world is changing and changing in a way I don't like at all. It seems to me that we are drowning in details - numbers, how many migrants are, how many are not, how many are police officers, etc., and somehow we do not notice that the European Union is failing. And we should focus on why it is failing, and we should build a Union that actually works. I am concerned that no one is doing this properly, and the migration crisis has only shown that some authorities, say, European or institutions are not working. Now, please leave out what I could say that once upon a time, we argued with the ODS and ČSSD as to what the Union is supposed to look like, but it turns out that the model that was chosen is not working for crises. I am very concerned that something like this may follow in NATO. I would ask Minister Babiš not to go to the media and just criticize that the European Union is not working because he has responsibility for how it works, and he should not only do so so so that he suddenly gets some votes. And now it's fashion to criticize the Union, so it's gonna criticize it, too. If it's fashionable that most people want a union, they'll be for it. There's no point. So rather a request: really pay attention to these things systemically. And I'm worried we're gonna drown in the details. The world is watching us, they're not all our friends, whether it's the Islamic state, and now I don't want to name some powers, and I'm worried that they can only be happy with what we're talking about here. Nothing works, we say it ourselves. I don't know if this is the right policy on the outside. I'm sure it isn't. And really take care of things that matter with colleagues from other European Union countries, or it just doesn't end well. And I, as a member of the ODS, say, I do not want to live outside the European Union, because then I know that the space will remain free. And I can imagine who's gonna occupy that space, and I've been there before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr Petr Fiala for a microphone with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u36	Thank you. I am, of course, enrolled in the general debate, but it will not get to it, so in a factual note I will briefly respond to what the Prime Minister has said here. I have listened very carefully to him, but I have not learned how the government actually wants to behave in those matters that the European Union will now discuss on the issue of the migration crisis and how we will respond to the current issues. That was a number of facts, data, information that we can read differently, but it was not what the government should do on the basis of the resolution of this House. I would remind you, Prime Minister, that in this House resolution of the 25th meeting of February last year, it is said: The House is asking the government to keep the House informed about the positions it will advocate at all foreign policy negotiations dealing with security and migration policy, i.e. the positions that the government will defend. We haven't heard anything like it here. We have not heard the Government's views on the things that will now be discussed in the European Union. Then, when I get a chance to get out - I hope I can get out, I'll ask you a number of specific questions. Here's just a comment from your performance. You may have said that a common coastal and border guard, an instrument that I seriously doubt is what you have proposed in the European Union for many months under the Czech Government. And it even looked like it was your proposal that the European Union had adopted. Well, if that's the case, I'd expect you to tell us in the Chamber of Deputies, because that's a serious matter. I also wonder how the government will stand up to the things that are happening these days. Germany is beginning to consider the ceiling for migrants, Austria has given a clear ceiling on the number of refugees it wants to receive. And the ceiling will probably be filled by the end of March. After all, it is a challenge for the Czech Republic to react somehow to this, to take a stand. Those are the things we'd expect from you. And I believe that you will comment on them during the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u37	Now, with the actual microphone, I'll ask the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that I would very much like to answer the questions that Mr Fiala has asked here now about the new observations made by President Gauck in Germany and others and the situation that is certainly essential in Europe. However, I am practically sure that I will not be able to get to this within the framework of the general debate within 13 hours, so unfortunately, you will not hear anything from my mouth that I think would be very much worth speaking in the House, and it would be very important. But since my time is very ruthlessly limited, allow me at least one comment. I find it absolutely outrageous, inaccurate and reprehensible to have to listen here to the Members who talk about how this government does nothing. Let me tell you one thing. Today, I have dealt with representatives of the Red Cross, who work at 80 percent of Syria. And we're discussing what we were, as you know, discussing with Federica Mogherin. On Monday I talked about this with a number of European ministers, including the Jordanian Foreign Minister, that the Czech Republic, which has a representative office, was something that we agreed with the Prime Minister and with the Ministers of the Government. The Czech Republic is trying to allow humanitarian penetration into an area where we have not yet reached Syria. And it is something that is essentially the subject of debate even at the forum of 28 ministers at a meeting with the Jordanian Foreign Minister. This is something the Czech Republic is associated with today. I could talk about this for a long time. I don't think I'm gonna have any room. And friends, Syria, that's the heart of darkness today. Syria is one of the biggest problems today that is the source of the crisis we are facing. And it is something in which the Czech Republic - and I believe I can say this competently - is engaged. Talk about non-doing, and I could talk about Minister Chovanc, the Ministry of the Interior, which operates in Macedonia, Slovenia, Croatia and other countries. Please, I'd like to see this mass abuse of factual remarks happen here so that one day it will be possible to listen here too, listen to what the Prime Minister says, what the ministers of the government say, and then I didn't have to respond here to such absurd accusations that have nothing to do with reality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u39	Thank you. Now, please refer to the microphone with Mr Černoch's factual remark. Mr. Lank will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u40	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for letting me respond to Minister Zaorálek. Minister, the resolution approved last year shows that the government is to give information to the Chamber of Deputies. We here as opposition must beg you to give this information. And when, by some miracle, yesterday, we were able to pronounce it, we're listening for an hour today to talk about what the situation is, but not about what's going to be done. I'm watching the Prime Minister now. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but you've been on the phone all this time, looking at your phone, flipping on your phone. So what's the debate? Is it about what we will do as the Czech Republic? So whether to protect the state borders of the Czech Republic or to rely on the European Union? I was at a meeting with Mrs. Mogherini. I heard her answers. She hasn't responded in fact once. It's always been swimming, political diplomacy. She didn't say a word. Even for sexual attacks where I think the answer is unambiguous and judgmental, she said that it's happening here in Europe and that it's done by old-timers, and that it happened in Germany, so she had nothing to do with it. Does that seem like a relative answer to you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u41	Thank you. Mr Lank's microphone, please, and Mr Okamura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u42	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I am only going to take a brief, really factual remark on the Prime Minister's opening statement. The Prime Minister promised me yesterday that he would speak in length and detail, so I have to admit, he did this. However, we did not learn much new. I don't know if anyone's happy with this speech. I didn't, because I didn't know what I was most interested in: what is the development and if somehow the government is ready for further solutions and further developments. I am sorry, but at times I felt that I was not listening to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, but to some top representative of the European Union. It is clear and evident that many surrounding states are preparing new legislation urgently to respond to current problems. So I'm asking if we're ready. And in particular, I wonder how the government is prepared to respond to our proposal for an amendment to the Asylum Act, which will clearly say that if anyone commits a crime in our country, asylum proceedings will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u43	I thank you and ask for the microphone of Mr Okamura. Mr Vácha and Mrs Němcová will be ready after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u44	Yes, allow me to respond to the Foreign Minister, the Zaorálek Minister. Well, you're acting, but that's probably a kindergarten argument. After all, you can act in favor or in favor. And you act, your government acts, but permanently against the will of most citizens of the Czech Republic and against what citizens want, i.e. the owners of this country. You are acting in favour of the European Union. If you acted in favour of the citizens of the European Union, you will not reject our proposal for a referendum on leaving the European Union three times to allow citizens, i.e. the country's owners, to decide their future. The other thing is that you here, on the one hand, are saying how everything is okay and how - because I received a letter from you, Prime Minister, based on the answer to my oral questioning, that because we are in the European Union, we had to accept those illegal immigrants. Yeah, but I'm asking you again that, for example, the citizens of Rabbit at Usteckoorlick, that against their will, you're trying to move immigrants in, they're learning it from Facebook, they're desperate to petition, even the local ČSSD organization came to the press conference two days ago to support us in the House, Vice-President of your local ČSSD organization. At a press conference with us when we announced the petition because we want to help the desperate citizens of Rabbit, so there were representatives of the SPO, who are in charge of the Pardubice Region, the support letter was also sent by the local organization KSČM for Usteckoorlicko. That means, basically, you're acting against everyone. You're acting against all normal people because they just don't want it. And you're imposing non-refundable steps that will affect crime for good in the Czech Republic, social tensions, we don't have the money, and you're still saying - we're acting, we're negotiating. So once again I wanted to tell you - yes, you are acting, but permanently against the will of most citizens of the Czech Republic and you rely on the fact that citizens have a short memory and maybe two years from now it will go away. It's not gonna be like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u45	Thank you. Please see Mr Vácha's microphone, Mrs Němcová will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u46	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform, but then I really have to get off and respond to the Foreign Minister's speech. It is about two, it was basically a year before the migration crisis, two years after the conflict in Syria, I intersected the Prime Minister on how the Czech Republic will help migrants, or how it will help those people who are fleeing Syria. And Minister Zaorálek said they were acting. I would like to stress what my colleague Langšádlová said here: you must act. I warned you about this maybe a year before the migration crisis, when Amnesty International had a petition to help Syrian refugees. If you started, if the European Union started reacting one year before the migration crisis, when NGOs were already pointing out this problem, we might not have gotten there, and not just us, there aren't that many migrants in our country, but we are part of the European Union, which means the whole of the European Union would not be in the same crisis as it is now. If we started acting an action year before the migration crisis, we wouldn't be where we are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u47	I thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs. Němcová. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u48	Thank you for the floor. In my previous remark, I asked the Prime Minister for answers, for an opinion on what the United Kingdom is proposing. I would very much like to ask him to choose a performance with priority right by that one hour and answer these questions, because tomorrow the Prime Minister is coming, and I don't care much about what happened. [[Cameron]] I want to know what the government is going to defend tomorrow. The second point concerns what my colleague Pavel Blažek said here. Indeed, Europe and the world around us are changing. In connection with this, I have another question which I did not notice any reaction from the Prime Minister. I mean, the debate about the whole European culture, we all repeat it, is based on Christian-Jewish roots. If you are looking well at what is happening in Europe, the German Jewish communities are saying that they are afraid that the state power in Germany is falling apart, and 8,000 German Žid are ready to emigrate to Israel. 43 percent of the 600 - member French Žid community announces that it is ready to emigrate to Israel. And I therefore want to ask if the question is that Europe can only live until it respects its Christian-Jewish roots. What is your information about the žid leaving Europe and actually replacing them with Muslims? You are leading somewhere, Prime Minister, on this issue in Europe Jews debate on the international forum? Have you touched on this subject, and do you know why the žid are leaving Europe? Because they themselves claim to be afraid of the Muslim tide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u49	Thank you. For the record, the Prime Minister is first in line with priority law, but there are factual points that I have to deal with. That means that if you applied, there are three more entries in front of you. [[Prime Minister Sobotka, about to come to the pitch, off the microphone:]] So I'm gonna ask for Mr. Fiedler's mike.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm not gonna take advantage of that factual remark, and I'm gonna respond to what's been said here in front of me. I was surprised by the Foreign Minister's speech to the Zaorálek Minister, that this was about the ministers and the Prime Minister speaking. Well, I think they've been talking here long enough, talking here at an emergency meeting on this topic of migration, which we've already called in the Chamber of Deputies, and it's been happening in a way that ministers have just talked and reported history, describing what was, what we're not interested in at all, what we all know. The government is an executive body. I think it should therefore act. That's probably her main mission. And, Prime Minister, through Madam President, you mentioned in your opening speech the Government's position of 18 January 2016. I was trying to find this document, I don't know if I found the right one, because the document I have here before me, the report on the migration situation on 31 December 2015, is in exactly the same spirit as the speech here. Quote: The Czech Republic continues to hold the position that the relocation process will be possible to start. It states that hotspots operating in Italy are only two, Lampedusa, Trapani, and one hotspot in Greece on the island of Lesbos. And so I'm asking, these hotspots, as far as I know, aren't getting any bigger, we're expecting about triple the migration wave, and so what are we going to do? What's the readiness? What we've been hearing from you all along is just a description of the state, but we want to know how we're going to react to what's waiting for us. From your messages and your speeches, we didn't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u51	Thank you and please to Mr. Plzák's microphone. Mrs Dobešová, Mr Benešík, and then the Prime Minister, at least with de facto effect, will be prepared. Proper? Then we'll have to wait until we've exhausted the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u52	Thank you, Madam President. A very short factual remark to my colleague Okamura, who also incorporated the adoption of the Constitutional Act on the withdrawal from the European Union. Mr President, what will change if we leave the European Union on the issue of refugees? After all, the Geneva Convention, specifically that of 1952 on refugee rights, was not signed by the European Union. This was signed by the Czechoslovak Republic. And if these people are just gonna ask for protection or asylum, we're gonna have to deal with them like a republic. That has nothing to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u53	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Dobešová's microphone. Mr. Benešík will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u54	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to what's going on here in the House. The item we are discussing is called Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis, but what has broken down after the Prime Minister's speech reminds me of the confusion of languages. We're all talking about one thing and we have different opinions about it. I think we should start listening, we should talk about it less and do more. And the only thing I personally see as a flaw in the coalition and government is that it doesn't let you know what it does enough. And she does a lot, except the opposition constantly attacks and says what should be done, and tries to get her points on it. [[12.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're in the same boat here. This isn't about who wins! We're either gonna survive this in good health or we're not. I was very happy at the beginning of the discussion, when we started talking about it, that we were all the same, we were all talking about migration the same way. And all of a sudden, there are different opinions about it. That's the only solution. Close the border, negotiate within Europe. And believe me, it's not easy, because I'm going to these meetings in the OSCE. The position of the western part of Europe is completely different from ours and it is very complicated to convince them to adopt our positions. So I really appreciate the government and what it does in steps to keep the situation under control. And the next point is to prepare for the crisis. She can come. None of us know what's gonna happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. And nobody's a smart hobby, don't be mad at me. If we're still going to have this kind of discussion here, then Europe is about to be the Middle East! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u55	I thank you and ask for Mr Benešík's microphone, Mr Černoch will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u56	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government. Very briefly. The name of Federika Mogherini, High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, which we had the opportunity to meet. I agree that I do not share much of her views, but what was delightful is that she expressed her praise to the Czech Republic on how she behaves in the migration crisis. For me, this is a sign that even Federica Mogherini and the European Commission, as many governments in the European Union do, who condemned us for our attitude towards the migration crisis six months ago, a year ago, that the European Commission will finally take over the opinion of the Czech Republic. This means ensuring the borders, the safety of our country's citizens first, helping in places of conflict, helping where migrants get in the first instance, and not letting it go, and then we'll take it from here. Just ten million people who come here in two or three or five years, which, of course, could be a threat, we just don't take it easy. That's just the way it is. That's basically what I was gonna say. And then the next thing is to Mrs. Mogherini. She has repeatedly told me that these migrants or asylum seekers are going to the European Union as such. I have tried in vain to explain it, and it is visible in numbers, it is simply visible in those flows, they do not go to the European Union as such, such is the minimum, they go to specific countries of the European Union, or even countries that are not in the European Union and are in Europe. And I think that we will move forward if the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy begins to perceive reality. The Czech government perceives it. Thank you. . [[Applause especially in the left side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u57	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Also factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u58	Thank you. My colleague Dobešová is from the government. I understand her opinion, and you know very well, through you, Madam Vice-President, that we are going to these meetings together, that we are working as we can. But how can it be said that we are all speaking the same language, how is it that when we are overvoted in quotas, we simply accept the quotas and submit to them, do we not fight at all against it? So at that point, it didn't make any sense to be against the quotas, because the moment they're adopted and we submit to them, it's like one step isn't. Another thing, for Dr Plzák, for Mr Plzák, for your part, Madam Vice-President. The Geneva Conventions are built on individuals fleeing war, fleeing persecution in their country, but are not built for about 80 percent of the economic migrants coming to Europe. And that's reality. That's reality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u59	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Fiedler's mic with de facto effect. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u60	Very briefly, I won't even need two minutes. I just have to say that I cannot agree with my colleague Benešík. If the Commissioner of the European Union is in charge of migration, the European Union has brought migration policy into a state where it is, when we call it a crisis, when we know it is a big problem. I cannot agree that her assessment is positive for us. This Commissioner - many people in the Czech Republic did not know for a long time that such a Commissioner existed, as Prime Minister Sobotka rightly said in his opening speech, the European Union has ignored the rise of this migration problem for four years. So I cannot take the assessment of Commissioner Mogherini as positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u61	Thank you, I was about to say that with the Prime Minister's priority right, but Mr Sklenák has a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u62	Thank you for the floor. As Mrs Dobešová said, this item is called Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis and it is incredible that ministers are sitting here, ready to submit the information and unable to get to the floor. Social democracy was against that point being included, and I think now you all know why. Because we have some experience and we have foresight. KDU-ČSL Members said that they wanted the House to adopt a resolution and that the Government had a mandate for the House. It is clear that this will not happen, and the information from the ministers will probably not come from us either. So, my friends, I recommend that we pass this discussion on to the Committee on European Affairs, and if there is a consensus that the Chamber of Deputies should adopt a resolution, then come up with a proposal from this committee and seriously discuss what resolution the House will adopt and what is the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u63	Thank you. With the de facto Mr Negro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u64	I apologize, Mr Sklenák, by your means, Madam Vice-President, but there is a resolution from last year and it is not being implemented. If it's filled and we don't have to ask for it as opposition, that's when it's gonna be. Unfortunately, and it is sad that this point when I designed it and managed to enforce it, there is little time for it, and we have to use factual notes to get us in line at all. This is sad! The Committee of European Affairs discusses this, resolutions are adopted there, but the House has the right and citizens have the right to know how the Czech Government and the Czech Republic are progressing in the immigration crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u65	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Prime Minister Sobotka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u66	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I have tried repeatedly to sign up for the debate. I do not wish to blame the Vice-President for not giving me the floor because it was probably in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I just find it strange where this has come from the interpretation and practice of this Rules of Procedure in the Chamber of Deputies. Because instead of being able to speak properly, instead of hearing the speeches of representatives of all parliamentary factions here, so that the opposition can comment on this, so that the coalition can comment on it, we simply have a chain of factual remarks here, in principle, of one member club or a group of Members, which will prevent not only the withdrawal of other representatives, but will not actually allow the debate to react because there is a chain of factual remarks. And I certainly don't want to be among those who abuse factual remarks and delay proper performances. In the past, it used to be that when this discussion was held, factual remarks were not really used in this way. Members have made a proper statement, they have spoken in the debate, they could argue because it is very difficult in those two minutes to argue factually in a structured manner so that the debate here makes sense at all. The moment we go to the clips, when we go to two-minute factual notes, it gets insulted, it turns into some media slogans, and it's just a travesty to the debate. I find it quite strange if there are any comments here about the fact that I shouldn't have lectured the report as long as I lectured it. If I present it in five minutes, you will no doubt accuse me of taking it away. If I hadn't brought up the facts, you'd have accused me of not giving up the facts. If I hadn't talked about abroad, you would have accused me of forgetting foreign, and if I hadn't paid attention to what we did at home, you would have said it was just a foreign exhibition where I didn't touch the conditions in the Czech Republic. [[12.50 hours]] The time for this debate is about to end. Social democracy was not the one who planned this term, it was voted here in the Chamber of Deputies for eleven o'clock and the moment you voted on the proposal, so we all knew that there would only be two hours for the debate and that then the debate would have to continue at some other date. That's just the way it is. I would merely intercede for not really taking advantage of factual remarks, creating a chain of factual remarks here, which only one part of the Chamber of Deputies will usurp, and then distorting the image and distorting the opinional distribution that is here today in the Chamber of Deputies. I remember a better debate here, when the faction leaders were speaking, the representatives of the individual opinions were speaking, it was a debate here, it was their clash, but it wasn't crowding out, procedural crowding out another opinion by chaining one de facto comment after another, and I, as Prime Minister, can't even respond to it simply because I can't exercise the right of priority because there's a chain of factual remarks. This is not a good thing, and I think it is a subject for all of us here in the Chamber of Deputies to have such fundamental debates as the debate on migration, such as the debate on our future. And now I don't want to respond to everything that's been said here because I don't have time for that. It's over at 1:00 p.m., it's lunch break. But I want to respond to two things. Firstly, there was a question by Mrs Němcová, who was not directly concerned with the migration debate, but I want to confirm the clear position of the Czech government we have. We are ready to discuss UK proposals for changes in the European Union if this does not go against the interests of the Czech Republic and if it does not go against the functional system that should exist in the European Union today. Certainly proposals to simplify bureaucracy, administration, and reforms of the European Union that will increase its competitiveness, no doubt, yes, we are ready to support that. If the Brit come up with it, I'm sure they'll have allies in us in this. But if the Brit suggest that measures will apply here which will discriminate against the citizens of the European Union who will come to work in Great Britain, they will not have allies in us here. But strategic reasoning is important. I would not like us to be caught up in the details of those British proposals that have not actually been presented in detail. But what is important is strategic reflection. Do we want Britain to remain in the European Union? The Czech Government says yes, we wish Britain to remain in the European Union. Because you can imagine, when Britain leaves the Union, Europe will be strategically weakened - even on security issues - in foreign policy, it will make Europe strategically weak. So let's not admit it, let's do everything we can to keep the Brit on board. But there's only one thing we can't do, all of us, here we are. We cannot vote in the British referendum. British citizens will vote there, and they will ultimately decide whether or not their countries will remain in the Union. But I do not wish Britain to speak and, as Prime Minister, I will try to help prevent this serious strategic mistake from happening in the future of Europe. And the second point about what was said here in some acts of a factual nature. The idea of getting out of the European Union, honourable Members, we would have to come out from everywhere. We would have to step out of the UN, we would have to step out of the OSCE, of all - from the Council of Europe, isolate ourselves, close ourselves, build a wall around the Czech Republic, and pretend that what is happening in the world does not concern us. You think this is the way? This just isn't the way. And I want to clearly reject the proposals for us to get out of the European Union. This is a completely misguided idea that would damage the vast majority of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. Our country is thriving economically. Last year, crime dropped by 14 percent year on year, the government is in control of the security situation, even when the migration crisis is raging. And we're gonna do everything we can to keep it that way. But the prosperity, the stability, the certainty, the investment, the jobs, all this has to do with us being members of the European Union. The union can't be deflected. Our membership cannot be separated from investment, from being seen as a stable territory, where it is possible to do decent business, where we can live decently, that we are among the safest countries in the world, so it cannot all be considered that we are members of the European Union and that we are members of NATO. I reject the proposals for us to come out of the European Union, because anyone who says so is acting against the interests of the vast majority of our people. And I'll tell you, especially the poorer and especially the middle class. Because the rich can arrange it, they can live anywhere in the world, they just move somewhere else. But middle- and low-income groups can't respond that way. We have a responsibility to make our country a decent place to live in the coming years. And this has to do with not leaving Europe, to be integrated in the West, to have the security guarantees that we have today. All of this has to do with it. So I'm rejecting these isolation efforts, and if I refuse them, I'm also saying and confirming what I said here today. We're an active state. Show me other countries in Europe our size - there are larger countries that are much less involved - show me countries that help in the Balkans, which sent police officers and soldiers like the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia. Show me the countries that have given as many humanitarian gifts and as much help as the Czech Republic has given. Show me a country that helps as much in Jordan as we do in Europe, Central and Eastern Europe. It's not true that our country is passive, we are part of the more active part. And I am very pleased that we are trying to contribute to the resolution of the migration crisis according to our capabilities and forces. But we can't solve it ourselves. We ourselves will not stop the strong migratory current that is now heading through Turkey from Syria, Iraq and other countries from Afghanistan. This requires a conceptual solution. This brings me to the final part of this performance. I'm sure I'm ready to respond to another discussion if there's room for it and if I get my turn again. About what Vice-President Filip said here. Of course, the causes of migration today are in collapsed states such as Iraq, which is a semi-crashed state, such as Syria, which has completely fallen apart, like Libya. This is the cause of the migration. And of course, within the international community, the Czech Republic, where we are in Europe, the UN, where we have the opportunity, so we are trying to help stabilize the situation. I am very pleased that we are among the countries that are actively fighting against the Islamic State, because defeating the Islamic State also means creating a factor that can stabilise the situation in the Middle East. We're diplomatically active. And the Foreign Minister said it here, the Czech Republic is one of the last countries to have a functional embassy in Syria, and we are ready to offer it and help both in terms of humanitarian and mediating relevant information for our allies, so that we are able to contribute to an agreement in Syria, to stability in Syria as such. So we are active and we will be active, we are interested in the causes of this migration crisis and we will also be actively involved in their resolution. Of course, I am prepared to respond to these other things in the next part of the discussion. Again, I am stressing: I could not speak earlier simply because there is a chaining of factual remarks which, in my opinion, has no equivalent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u67	Thank you and, finally, Mr Stanjura's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u68	Well, I didn't want to be in the debate. We have concentrated the performance of our parliamentary club in the performance of Mrs Němcová and President Petr Fiala. I'm not happy about how this debate is going on today. I really don't. But if we're looking for a culprit, he's not the only culprit. But if you're looking for the culprit, Prime Minister, look in the mirror. [[Weak applause from the right side of the courtroom, dissenting noise from the left side of the courtroom.]] If you or your colleagues from the government have come before the beginning of the meeting and you or your colleagues from the majority: we have a resolution here, we want to implement it, we propose a debate then and then, let's agree on rules - I agree to let the rules settle in this debate - and let's agree on these rules, so it could have been. We forced this point against your will, too, Prime Minister. You didn't vote for the proposal, and you chose an interesting tactic that you have every right to. You took full logical advantage of the government's information, the Prime Minister spoke. I think it's perfectly logical, you took advantage of it, you had a rather extensive opening word. And that's good, I'm not criticizing that. But at the same time, you were the first to sign up with priority rights for the debate. That is, if there was no factual question, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will speak first and first in the debate, Mr Sobotka, who exercised his right of priority. This is how it works here. You are now the first to speak in this speech, which just ended, in a proper debate without any factual comment. It's legitimate, but it's weird. And we need to get out of this. [[13.00 hours]] I'm suggesting a procedure - and I don't want to do anything that I won't suggest that we interrupt it by tomorrow, if you want to do tellers tomorrow, because tellers are more important to you than migratory crises. So I would like to propose that we interrupt this point by Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. to agree on Tuesday's political grémium, which will definitely be at 10:00 p.m., on what format, and if we agree, that's how it's gonna be. I believe that the club presidents will then enforce the possible agreement in their clubs to make it basically as the Prime Minister said. The first person to speak with the club's opinion would be the representatives of the individual clubs, and then let's leave it at that. But the major performances of individual MPs could be heard, and there has to be a deal for that. I suggest we cut it till 3:30 on Tuesday and try to make a deal on Tuesday at 10:00 on that grémium. I say for myself that we're ready to accept the order, they can easily perform according to the size of the clubs, if we say, so it will be, and then we'll let everyone else into the debate. And it depends on the clubs, if they're the first ones to do it, who have priority rights in the club, or someone who will represent the club and perform with the club's position. By the way, the person who performs with the club's position also has priority rights at that particular point. That's my particular proposal. [[unintelligible]] If you support him, then I'll trust the Prime Minister that at least today he's interested in having the rules of the debate and the exact time, and then we can have the debate. It is a matter of extreme interest to our citizens, it is difficult to explain that we are discussing a lot of other points and we are constantly putting this off. So this is a specific motion for a procedural vote. If we accept it, we can try to arrange the rules for this meeting on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. on the political gréma of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u69	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your cards again. We will vote on a procedural proposal to interrupt this item by Tuesday 26 January 15.30. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 73, to which 122 are registered, for 65, against 37. [[♪ There's a round of applause ♪ ♪ From the right ♪]] The motion was accepted. I am interrupting this point, and at this moment I am interrupting the morning meeting. Meet me at 2:30 p.m. when we'll proceed with the approved program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-002-203.u70	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It's 14 hours and 30 minutes and we'll continue our negotiations.
