ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u1	50. Members of Stanislav Polčák and Věra Kovářová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 128/2000 Sb., on municipalities, as amended /house print 249/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House press 249/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by the appellant, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, House Press No 249 was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 30 June 2014. Yes, I repeat, June 30, 2014, two years ago. Since then, it has not even been discussed at first reading. Today is a glorious day, and I'm very happy about it. The proposed amendment to the municipal law is not extensive. In Article 38 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: The following sentence shall be inserted after the second sentence: "The violation of the obligations laid down in the first and second sentences shall not be such disposal by the property of a municipality which pursues another important interest of the municipality which is duly justified'. Yes, it is a minor change, but with far-reaching consequences. Why, I'll explain later. [[15.30 hours]] Significant lack of existing legislation, respectively. its application by the competent authorities consists in assessing the legality of the management of the property of the municipality only through a closely understood criterion of economic advantage. This approach forces municipal policies to take decisions that are often contrary to the interests of the residents of the municipalities managed by them. In the event that the authorities assign another legitimate objective to the criterion of economic advantage, there is a danger of sanctioning whether civil or criminal liability. In a number of cases reported by the media, the danger of punishment has actually turned into criminal prosecution, which then, after getting to know them, seems completely impossible. As has already been said, we as the proponents of this proposal believe that such absurd interpretation of legislation can be faced through the amendment of § 38 para. 1 of the Municipalities Act. The criteria of effectiveness and economy, which are interpreted very closely in practice, should be extended to the criterion of other important interests of the municipality. This is the only way to achieve that the competent authorities will respect in their decision-making activities the autonomy of self-government guaranteed at the constitutional level by Article 8 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. By expressing the criteria of other important interests of the municipality, the scope for taking into account outside the economic aspects of the decisions taken is open. A typical example is the assessment of a specific disposition with regard to its effectiveness for the development of the municipality or the importance for the solution of neighbourly relations. The requirements arising from this very criterion may be contrary to the requirements based on closely economically understood criteria of economy and efficiency, while it cannot be reasonably argued that the second criteria should prevail in the case of local authorities. At the same time, I would like to stress that, in addition to the explicit extension of the scope for taking decisions which meet the specific conditions of individual municipalities, the contribution of the amendment to the constitutionally conformal application of the legal provisions is also to strengthen legal certainty, whose absence in this area is rightly felt to be a serious problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u3	Thank you, Madame. Now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u4	Hello. Thank you. I will appeal to the Government's position, which has expressed its opposition, and I will state the reasons. As amended, § 38 para. It is laid down that the property of the municipality must be used efficiently and economically in accordance with its interests and tasks under the legal scope. The management of municipal property should therefore be governed by both these criteria, i.e. both economic advantages and the interests and tasks of the municipality as a public corporation. As the main lack of the proposed change, however, I see, like the government, that it is not clear here what, practically speaking, would mean a proper justification for another important interest of the municipality. The proposed provision therefore raises a number of questions: What could or should be the other important concern of the municipality? What should the proper justification look like? What else will be and what will no longer be considered a proper justification? Who and when should formulate them? A municipality body that decides on a particular property act? When? At the time when it is decided, would such justification be a necessary condition for the approval of the relevant property act? Would it be possible to examine this reasoning as part of the State's supervision of the autonomous operation of the municipalities? And should it be concluded that it is not proper to call on the municipality to remedy and, where appropriate, suspend the performance of the relevant action of the municipality? Or would such justification be formulated subsequently when the property act becomes subject to the attention of law enforcement authorities? Furthermore, the Government points out in its opinion that the proposed amendment completely ignores the fact that the same rule as that contained in Section 38 (1) of the Act of Accession. Paragraph 17 (1) of the municipal constitution also contains Article 17 (1) of the Law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 about the capital of Prague. However, their amendments are not proposed for unknown reasons. For these justified legislative shortcomings, I will then propose in the debate that the law be rejected at first reading and, where appropriate, recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u5	Thank you. Then I will ask you to hear this proposal in the general debate. I am opening a general debate and Vice-President Gazdík reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to respond partially to the rapporteur through the President. He summed up the government's arguments, which I think are quite on the water. Each of you who has ever bought a car knows that buying the cheapest car for the current economy is simply not good because it evaluates the value of the vehicle for its entire life. Just because I buy the cheapest car doesn't mean that it has the best consumption and that it will last me the most years so I don't have to buy more soon. The Angličan in their public procurement system call this system value for money - value for money. And something like this is proposed in this bill. We want nothing more than for municipalities to have the opportunity, and it is in the law and strictly justified to buy value for money, which is not clear in some law enforcement agencies today, and some law enforcement authorities approach this in a very strange way, and they directly eliminate municipal and regional policies on the basis of imaginary accusations. By stating this in this law, and by proving that the municipality really wanted value for money, or by assigning some value, the situation is changing. Those of you who are municipal politicians, you know that if the council is to decide in a hypothetical case whether to rent some area for a much larger amount per square metre to a multinational company or to someone who does not make it a warehouse and employs no one, or if the council is to rent the same area to a company that employs ten locals for a lower amount, that is exactly the value, and that is exactly the reason that you, the rapporteur through the President, have mentioned. And such a justification should exist. He already current interpretation, which is in the law on municipalities, says that it should not be the least price, but that it should be an overall economic advantage. And here, the wording only regulates it. What I have to agree with, and that can be removed at second reading, is, at the same time, with this draft law on municipalities, there should also be an amendment to the regional law and the capital city of Prague, because of course it also concerns them. But this lack of plaintiffs can be easily eliminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you how the assessment of this matter has evolved over time, at a broader time of the whole of the post-evolutionary period. If there had been a debate in this Chamber of Deputies about 20 years ago on the subject that the decision-making of municipalities must be measured only by economic advantages for the community, this would have been considered absolutely absurd, because there were large property movements at the time. [[15.40 hours]] The municipalities owned, for example, housing funds, larger cities, housing funds in thousands of housing units. These housing funds privatized the citizens of the village living in the village and quite logically took into account the public interest of the citizens of the municipality from their point of view, that is, not the municipality as an entity and merely the contribution to the municipality's budget, but the interest that these people should also have some capacity and the opportunity to repair the acquired housing units afterwards. And that's when the council in most of this country concluded that if the housing estates were to be repaired and heated, if the old apartment buildings from the first Republic were to cease to be rapped and destroyed, but if they started to look pretty, it was more of an interest than that of the municipality's budget for the housing unit to be added to the funds at market price level. Of course, over a period of 15-20 years of such situations, where municipalities thus take into account some public interest, which lies even in a decades-long twisting market environment or property environment, they are much less than they were then. But in any case, anyone who is a representative, who has ever met municipal policy, knows that there are situations where public interest, which has nothing to do with the private interests of representatives, councillors, with any corrupt motivation, is very difficult to reconcile with the mere view of the municipality as an entity, with the profit in the city budget. Such situations will be experienced by every municipal politician during the parliamentary term. What the council did in mass at the time - and I think it was clearly positive and that this changed the face of the Czech Republic in a huge way - is now at the level of mass crime. That's how it's judged. I myself experienced in one court, where I was invited as a witness to one of my colleagues from another local policy, who was accused of something like this and today, fortunately, is completely free of any such accusation, so I experienced the situation when I brought this to the attention of the prosecutor. And he replied to me that he perceived this argument, but that they have not yet taken any initiative to deal with this work of representatives in the early 1990s. Or, basically, he confirmed to me the interpretation that he thought that they could deal with it and that basically all generations of city representatives and municipalities could eventually start prosecuting. I think that's completely absurd. That is why I welcome the legislative initiative that is here, which is based on real experience with those situations that responsible politicians encounter at the municipal level, and which allows them to loosen their hands a little and allow them to decide in situations where it cannot be judged only economically, and when, in fact, today, every city councilman you speak to says that he does not want to make some decisions at all because he is afraid of his criminalisation. And I think that we need to change this, which is why I am ready to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u9	Thank you. I note a few factual points here. I would like to ask Mr Petr whether he is reporting properly or with a factual remark. Okay, so you're in line. First of all, Mr Urban, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I welcome the initiative, too, and I will say why. Maybe a little story from my hometown of Čáslav where I was born and where I live. There's a square, a nice square, a hotel called Grand. The hotel comes from the first Republic and then was partially renovated, converted into so called. Action Z. After 89th year, the privatization commission put him in a small privatisation, and since then he has had about ten owners, but no traffic, so the hotel has been decaying, decaying. Different loans have passed through it, just as those entities and new acquirers have always stopped various banks. The municipality decided to buy the hotel back even though it would cost a lot more, the market price than it would, of course, at a time when it went through a small privatisation, including some coefficients. And because he's dilapidated, she decided to fix the hotel. If there was just an economic view, it would probably be best to sell it to someone else and land that's certainly lucrative in that square, then sell it and leave it to some commercial house, bank house or anyone else. This has not been done by the community, and it is a good thing because citizens want something else. And if it were judged in some way strictly only by economic parameters, then perhaps the representatives might have some problems. I don't know if the law is legally in order, I can't judge it, but I like the idea, and philosophy, in my opinion, is correct. So let's do another reading and assess it after legal purity. And I think it's definitely worth helping the communities out like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u11	Thank you. Another Mr Petrů, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I will follow up on my previous speakers as the former mayor. Take the fact that in our border areas there were sold in municipalities for example for the construction of family houses for a crown. A new political guarantee came and the previous one was in trouble because there was a criminal complaint that they didn't sell the land at market price. And so I ask: Is there a more responsible council, council, or mayor and deputy mayor, who will sell even at a lower price, family houses will stand up and, given that there are small children there, I have a full kindergarten, I have a primary school, I have a real estate tax, I take higher shared taxes, etc., or that I sell it at market price at the moment? It is precisely in order to prevent the persecution of mayors, councils and councils, I think that this is a very rational proposal and it is really worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u13	I thank you, too, and now, with Mr Adamec's point of fact. [[He wants to get off properly.]] Since no one is logged in properly, so please, you can get off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness. Dear colleagues, it won't make me say a few words about this proposal either. I find it quite smiling when a municipal politician, I feel active, wants to reject this proposal at first reading, because the idea is correct. But I thought about it a little differently. You know, when my colleague Novotný was talking about privatizations here, of course, I was also the one who privatized about 5,000 apartments with his council, so it stopped for me, but only until I realized that the municipalities were in a completely different position at the time. At that time the municipalities had the status of a natural person. This means a private entity and behaved according to a password that is not forbidden is allowed. Respectfully, what is not written in the law exactly, so I can act according to my consciousness and conscience. It's different today. We've turned this community into a public corporation. And that's the problem where I see a fundamental change. We even wanted to bring it to such perfection that we wanted to send the SAO to control the financing of municipalities. This is all a continuation of the change in the status of the community. And here the whole time it was the way that it was necessary to limit the possibilities of the deputies, to guard them, to punish them, to prosecute them. I think it's the wrong way. I confess that we will probably never be able to return, because it is probably not a custom in Europe, to those individuals as it once was, because we would have saved ourselves a lot of problems and these discussions, whether something is economical, economic, or not, we could have forgiven ourselves. [[15.50 hours]] The municipality is represented by the council. It is political decision-making, and political decision-making should never be criminalized in the sense that it is uneconomic. It may simply be a good political decision, it may be a bad political decision, but political decision should not be criminally prosecutable. And I think he's the buried dog. I myself am curious to see how the appellants can develop the idea so that it can be used in normal practice. But I'm afraid it's a really good idea, but we should just start at a different point in the definition of what a community is. I am not sure here that we will be in conflict with European regulations, European Commission regulations, etc. I'm very worried we can't go this way. And in my opinion, the path would be the most logical. Go back to what worked quite well at the beginning of the operation of the municipalities. And it turns out, if you take the number of municipalities that are over 6,000, then so-called. There wasn't much crime at the time. Otherwise, at the end of my short performance, which I would like to say is that I will encourage it to go to second reading, I would like to say one thing. I am not in favour of the excessive opening of the municipal law. I say this frankly after my experience. And it always does. It's just that every amendment to the community is a deterioration. I'm saying it quite frankly, that's right. Let us admit that a number of former municipal politicians in these benches forget how they worked as municipal politicians and change their views de facto as if in favour of state power, but to the detriment of municipal authorities. So I suggest we release the second reading for the real reason we're talking about these problems. They can't be crossed. I think that then we may also avoid passing other laws that make life more or less difficult in municipalities, making it difficult for representatives to act. And de facto today, if you look at the interest in community politics, you'll find that a lot of people don't want to because they're afraid that they might fall into trouble, they might get mixed up with the law, and then they say it's not worth it. Otherwise, if anyone here thinks that the deputy's work is grateful that people will praise him for it, they are deeply mistaken. As I've always said, and my predecessor taught me when we went into communal politics - he said no one here thinks your work will be written in gold in the book of honor. And I have always supplied - let us try not to be written in black. Thank you for your attention and for your release for the next reading, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I need to ask - is Mr Novotný reporting properly or factually? With a factual point of view. This is how Mr Novotný Martin will speak first with a factual remark, followed by Mr Novotný Josef. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u16	I wanted to make a really factual point, i.e. to respond to some of the rapporteur's words, but at that moment he read from the Government's position. And there was a very strong emphasis on what a huge problem it would be if some decisions, for example. The city council was unreviewable. It is such a philosophy that there are objective methods of examining a property act. Of course, some can be imagined, there are expert opinions, etc. But a number of deputies are not really reviewable. And we have been trying more and more over the last twenty years to retreat from the fact that some review of the activities of the councils, most importantly, is the municipal elections, that the elector is expressing whether the consideration of the public interest in this or that act was convincingly justified whether the politician retained any credit when he made a decision or not. That's getting more and more like the last place for us. And we are trying to objectify, measure, review these political decisions with various checks. There are very few who can be examined in this way. Most of them don't. Therefore, it seems to me that the government's position is a typical official position from that trend in recent years, when we are trying to close municipal policy into some review of measurableness, which is actually very often not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u17	Thank you. Mr Josef Novotný, with a factual remark, will now be prepared by Mr Václav Horáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak anymore because a lot has already been said here to support the bill. I have no problem with this at all, but I welcome the second reading to discuss the wording of the law. I could present here an example of a hotel on Klínovec, which has been dilapidated for 20 years and is being tossed by the city of boží's dar, private owner etc. etc. But the reason I reacted here was because I overheard from my previous speaker that he was concerned that the European Commission would interfere and that it could ruin the matter for us. You know, it always seems to me when we don't know where we're going, so we start saying that it's the European Commission's fault. I think we're at home here and we should help the mayors and give them a little bit of a better decision. So from my point of view, it's a pretty clear choice to support the release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Horáček has now made a point of fact, after which Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Most of it was said. I just want to say, this is the gold '90s. Many colleagues remember that time. He knows that the laws were much less, that we weren't so connected that even the control system was easier. What are we getting to now? No one transferred the control system to us, even though we asked for it as a committee. [[You didn't?]] All possible screws are constantly tightening to the community. I think it's time my colleagues made a proposal like this. Of course, I'd be happy to support him. And I think what helps our representatives, our councillors, is good. And it will also be seen in the work of individual representatives. Once again, there will be people who will be happy to work on the council and the council. Because one of my colleagues has already been told here, many people, good, smart, are very determined to go into this community policy, precisely because they are constantly afraid of being prosecuted. So I'd recommend we let it go to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u21	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond very briefly to Mr Novotný's speech. I'm sorry, maybe I didn't make myself clear. But I meant that this is the status of the community, i.e. when we concluded, for example, that the actual physical person, i.e. A private entity as a municipality is the best legal form for this to be the management and assessment of political decisions. I didn't mean it that way. I am not referring to Europe at all. In this case, of course, we're home. But it is precisely my concern that the status of the municipality as such, which I was referring to, would probably be there in these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u23	I thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. For the record, I am merely saying, Mr rapporteur, in your opening speech, you mentioned a motion to reject or return. So if you want to put it to a vote, it is important that it be heard in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u24	Thank you, Mr President. After the discussion, I have considered and will not bring forward the updated proposal. Because I think that this proposal deserves a wider debate, and it will be in the committees and at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u25	I thank you for your comments and ask if anyone else would like to speak in the general debate. Vice-President Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u26	I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the withdrawal of this proposal not only because of this law, but also in general. You know, many times they say the House's job is to pass the laws here like on a treadmill. The House's task is to be institutionalized discussions, and this is the first case I've seen here in six years, that the debate really led to some wise decision by the House, and that is to withdraw the motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u27	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur would like to have the final word. It's not like that. No proposals have been made to return or reject, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. So first of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order a bill to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. Before I vote, I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 228, registered 126 Members and Members, for proposal 124, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has not proposed by his decision to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask whether you have a motion for a commandment to other committees. prosit, plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u28	I propose that the proposal be also directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u29	Thank you. I'm asking who else is applying. No one is reporting, no proposal is made, in which case we will only vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this House press being ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as well, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 229, with 130 Members registered, for proposal 42, against 25. This proposal was rejected. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has not been ordered to discuss the next committee. Thank you. I am done discussing this point and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-012-050.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 16 to 17 pm today and from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr Klaška apologizes from 15.40 to 17 pm. We will continue with the approved agenda item number
