ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u1	231. Oral inhalation Before we go to the first interview, I have a note. Mr Robin Böhnisch apologizes today for work reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes today from the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies since 14.30 without giving any reason. Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes this afternoon for personal reasons, and Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologises today for family reasons this afternoon. Mrs Wernerová apologizes for the afternoon meeting for work reasons, and Mr Ivan Gabal also apologizes for the afternoon meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. Those were note cards. Now, let's move on to the first interpellation. Mr Igor Jakubčík will give his first interview to the Prime Minister on a visit to Afghanistan and in foreign missions. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, at the end of last week you visited Czech soldiers in Afghanistan at the bases in Bagram and Kabul. You told the media that the Czech Republic is still willing to help Afghánistán. Dear Prime Minister, could you tell us what you expect the further development of Czech-Afghan relations in the next two years, and what role should the adoption of the readmission agreement with the countries of the European Union play in these relations? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u3	I thank Mr Jakubčík. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u4	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Allow me, then, to begin my response to today's first interview concerning my visit to Afghanistan. I visited Afghanistan for three main reasons. The first was to thank our soldiers on the spot who serve and do hard work in a dangerous environment in Afghanistan. The second reason was to meet with the President of Afghanistan and the President of the Afghan Government to discuss how effective the Czech development aid that we have been providing in the long term and where it would be good to focus it in the coming years. The third issue was migration. Logically, because when you look at European statistics, when you look at Czech statistics, so numerically after Syrian refugees in Europe the second, sometimes the third largest group are refugees from Afghanistan, who especially came to Europe last year. And to be honest, I was quite surprised to see the statistics last year. And when I asked the State Department and the Ministry of the Interior if we had a readmission agreement with Afghanistan, if we had an agreement with this country to return refugees in a situation where our soldiers served there for about 15 years, when we provided development aid there for about 15 years, I was surprised to hear that we did not have a readmission agreement with Afghanistan. And it is not just the case of the Czech Republic, it is also a case of a number of European countries. I think it just shows the fact that Europe was actually not prepared for the migration crisis, how Europe was not prepared for the possible migration pressures. It's not just people leaving Afghanistan. Of course, there are quite a large number of people living in Iran or Pakistan who have fled Afghanistan as a result of the situation of constant fighting there, and these people are now largely deciding to go to Europe. So the third important issue was strengthening cooperation between the Czech and Afghan governments in the area of migration regulation. If I can still use the time I have at my disposal, I think, and I believe, the talks I had with the representatives of the ISAF mission, the NATO mission we are participating in, I must say that the ISAF mission command greatly appreciates the role played by the Army of the Czech Republic in this mission today. We are actually helping in what is most important now - to improve the capabilities of the Afghan army. It is clear that, after 15 years, it is necessary to direct responsibility for Afghanistan's security to the government there, so that responsibility is passed on to the military there, so that NATO troops can gradually withdraw from Afghanistan. But for that, it is important that the Afghan army be well-trained to be well-armed. And the first part of us is focused on training Afghan helicopter pilots. We train them, we train them on the base in Kabul, but we also train them and train them here in the Czech Republic. It is a significant contribution of the Czech Republic to improving the capabilities of the Afghan army. In addition, our doctors work at the Field Military Hospital at Kabul Airport. That's the second plane of our aid and our engagement. And next to that, our soldiers are in charge of the military base in Bagram. This is very important for the logistics of the entire ISAF Allied Mission in Afghanistan. I visited Bagrám briefly, spoke to the base commander, and I must say that he greatly appreciated the professional skills of our soldiers, their training, their discipline, their ability to handle the difficult task they have in Bagram. Our soldiers are among those who must leave the base, heading out to the vicinity of the base, providing security for the wider vicinity of this military base. This, of course, is a very dangerous thing, and our soldiers handle it highly professionally and they manage it with excellent results. I am pleased that the evaluation of the Czech Republic's work has been so positive, and I firmly believe that we will succeed in bringing the mission to an end in Afghanistan and that the Afghan Government and the Afghan security forces will take full responsibility for the security situation in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Is the Member interested in an additional question? No. The answer was really exhausting. Mr. Jiří Valenta, who will interpelate the Prime Minister on business with migrant accommodation in the Czech Republic, will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the capacity problems associated with the migration wave in Germany have grown in a monstrous way at the end of last year. Tens of thousands of people moved there to churches or gymnasiums across the country, on board ships. Thousands of them hosted hangars of the former Berlin airport Tempelhof and so on. German architects reportedly started designing new cities for migrants as well. You could say in this sense that this is primarily a problem, but also a free political will of Germany itself, and that you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Yes, of course you'd be right. And so, as such, after many civil emergencies, I am now asking you a very specific question, whether it is a fact that due to the migration of migrants in Germany and the lack of capacity there, these accommodations are also located in the Czech territory in facilities belonging to Czech business entities, all without the interest of the Czech authorities according to the dubious logic why a German entrepreneur could not accommodate his guests in his property in the Czech Republic. However, in this respect, I think that generous subsidies from the Federal Government to secure refugees should not cause various problems and increase security risks to others, even in the sovereign territory of another state. And if that were true, would you not consider this fact scandalous? After all, such a practice would, at least in my opinion, be a flagrant violation of the defense of national interests, by which you, too, are constitutionally bound. I believe that is not the case, but I would now hear from you the fundamental denial of these - hopefully - alarm messages and your commentary on this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u7	Thank you, Mr Valent. Please, Prime Minister, is this just an alarm report?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u8	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, just maybe to finish the speech to Afghanistan, because this is a loose link to the migration issue that we are getting to now. I have used the negotiations with Afghan representatives to ask them to seriously open negotiations on the conclusion of the Czech Republic's readmission agreement with Afghanistan, with the fact that we would, of course, welcome it if the return agreement could be concluded between the whole of the European Union and Afghanistan. So we will clearly support the European Commission in dealing with Afghanistan and will also try to act in parallel as the Czech Republic. I think that if we make such a significant contribution to Afghanistan's security stabilisation, we are providing extensive development assistance, so we should also make sure that there is a return agreement. The question asked by the Member here. Above all, what legal framework we have. A foreigner who has been granted a residence permit in another EU Member State may only stay in the Czech Republic for a short time or respectively. 90 days in 180 days. This means that the foreigner cannot stay in the Czech Republic for a long time without asking for a residence permit under the relevant law on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic. Foreigners who have not been granted a residence permit in an EU Member State, respectively. waiting for a decision on the matter, they are not entitled to move freely around the territory of the Schengen area, i.e. to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. This, I think, is an important rule that could possibly relate to the case mentioned here by the Member. The Ministry of the Interior is not known that foreigners who have residence permits issued for the Federal Republic of Germany would be systematically accommodated in the Czech Republic. This is, I think, information relevant from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, and at the same time, if it were a foreigner who applied for asylum in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and is now waiting for the appropriate asylum procedure, what I said really applies. They are not entitled to move freely across the Schengen area. So the Home Office has no indication that something like this is happening. If anyone should have such information, they can contact the foreign police and the foreign police can naturally carry out a check on the documents and all the formalities relating to the residence of any foreigner in the territory of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Mr Roman Procházka, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the salaries of employees in culture, will give the third interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I have recently noted your efforts or statements that health and education salaries will be increased by about 10 percent. I have no problem with this, but I would like to point out that there is another area, and that is the area of culture. In the Czech Republic, about 80,000 people deal directly with the culture. If we take the workers of cultural organizations directly, it is about 21,000 people. The average salary in the Czech Republic was about 26.5 thousand crowns in 2015. I looked up data on salaries in culture and here we have averages: For organizations established by the Ministry of Culture it is CZK 23 760, but it is an average, and for organizations where the average is lowest, there is even a salary of CZK 17 011. For organizations established by the region, the average of CZK 22 103 and for organizations established by cities and municipalities is only CZK 20 584. I would remind you that it is about CZK 6,000 less than the national average. Dear Prime Minister, I wonder if you are aware of this situation and if you intend to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u12	Thank you. Madam Members, I believe that the problem is really in the field of workers, who are particularly active in the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture. There is, the government has been brought to the attention of the matter, I personally have been brought to the attention of the matter. This week, when we had negotiations with representatives of trade unions representing employees in the public sector, there was also a representative of the relevant union representing workers, among other things. also in the Ministry of Culture, and the real situation in the field of salaries is not good. Minister of Culture Daniel Herman demands an increase in funds, the amount of funding to improve the remuneration of cultural workers in connection with next year's state budget negotiations, which means that this requirement is already on the table. And I believe that improving the remuneration of workers in the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture is justified and it is certainly appropriate that we look for ways to add these people. As far as wage negotiations are concerned, it has not yet been concluded. At the moment, there is agreement in the coalition that we should raise salaries for nurses and doctors from 1 January next year as regards the resolution of the health crisis situation. There is a discussion on how the salaries of other public sector employees should develop. I propose that teachers increase their tariff rates by 10 per cent next year as well, and I propose that for all other public sector employees, including culture workers, tariff salaries increase by 5 per cent next year. This means that specific proposals are part of these negotiations to increase public sector employees' pay rates. I believe that the government would be in this economic situation, where the economy is growing, when tax revenues are rising, when unemployment is falling, when we have higher tax revenues, so I think that there is room, especially in a situation where inflation is very low, so that we give a positive signal that wages should be increased. This also applies to cultural workers, but also to other public sector employees. At the same time, of course, the government must consider what budget options it has, and individual ministries and ministers must consider what budgetary priorities they have in terms of what funds they can afford to spend to strengthen expenditure in this area. I think that the fundamental decision that we will have to make in the government is the question of increasing the salary rate for public sector employees. I would like us to make this decision before we finally approve changes to the expenditure frameworks, before we approve the convergence programme, so that it is clear how much money we can spend to raise salaries, and at the time when the government makes a decision to increase the salary rate, I think the Minister of Culture should take into account what this will specifically mean for individual employees in his department, and should possibly inform the government about the impact it will have on the Ministry of Culture's budget. Unfortunately, the situation there today is characterised by the fact that a number of employees are only on a bare tariff for the long term, i.e. that they are actually able to guarantee the legal tariff for organisations established by the Ministry of Culture, using funds that should normally be used on over-the-counter components, so they use them to finance the tariff pay. A number of employees are on a bare tariff. So it is still a question of the Minister of Culture's consideration if he wants some funds to improve this situation. We are in the process of preparing the state budget for next year, there are some open possibilities for improving the remuneration of workers and, in my opinion, for workers in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u14	Thank you for your answer. I'm glad you feel that way. Of course, any extra component above the tariff certainly motivates employees to try much harder, and that can only help the culture. Of course, wages in culture are not the only problem. I would remind the government's programming statement, where the commitment to spending on cultural services amounts to 1 per cent of the state budget expenditure, and so far we are really, if we subtract the spending on churches, reaching between 0.6 and 0.7 per cent. So I'd like you to really do a lot of research on this culture, because we're dealing with this every time we approve a budget where we have little money for sightseeing, little money for living art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u15	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u16	I'll be very brief. First of all, I think that it is not a very happy idea, and I talked about it with the Minister of Culture when he joined the Ministry, that it is not quite a happy idea that, in fact, the funds that are intended to finance the churches and are connected with the financial settlement within the framework of the church restitution are part of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, because it is a terrible misrepresentation of the situation in the Ministry as such, that, at the moment when, for example, in the context of the settlement, the financial payments are increasing, it effectively increases the amount of funds that go through the Ministry of Culture's budget, without, of course, directly affecting the priorities that the government has in its cultural policy. So, in the long run, I would consider it better if the spending associated with the financing of the Church, the financing of the resolution of church restitutions were removed from the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, and they were financed under the general treasury or some other neutral chapter of the state budget, and they did not distort the volume of expenditure on culture. Otherwise, purely mathematically and accountably before last year, the expenses of the Ministry of Culture were 10.42 billion, last year it was 10.9 billion, and this year the expenditure should be CZK 11.7 billion. This means there is a nominal increase in expenditure within the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, but it is also distorted in my opinion by the expenditures that are used to finance the churches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u17	Thank you for your answer. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Petr Bendl will intersect the Prime Minister on the arbitration of České dráhy and Škoda Transportation. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, colleagues. Mr. Prime Minister, you know that the Czech Railways lost the arbitration court with Škoda Transportation and this arbitration court at the end of last year, and I do not want to evaluate his decision, ordered the Czech Railways to pay CZK 1.2 billion to Škoda Transportation. Then some of your ministers commented on it. For example, Minister Ťok stated - and I quote: "This is a scandalous decision, we are in a situation where the tunnelling of the Czech Railways takes place live. " First Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš comments: "Skoda Transportation is expected to receive CZK 760 million according to the Arbitration Court for supplying locomotives five years later than it should have. I think they're joking." However, in April of this year the Czech Railways paid this amount of Škoda Transportation, but in the meantime it became clear - the server will not influence. cz has published information that there has been a meeting between the head of the ANO member's club, Mr Faltýnek, a member of the ANO movement, Mr Volný and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways and former manager of Agrofert Milan Feranc and CEO of Škoda Transportation, in February this year, which is a striking reminder of the situation that the Czech Railways are not run by the government or the Ministry of Transport, but by someone completely different. That is why I want to ask you, Prime Minister, if you have had information about this situation, what has changed since then, that there has finally been a payment, and who is in charge of the Czech Railways. [[Time warning]] The government, the minister, or someone else?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u20	Thank you. Of course, honourable Members, the government can exercise and exercise its rights through a design that is laid down by the relevant laws. This means there is a management committee of České dráhy, whose members are appointed and withdrawn by the government. The relevant representatives of the various ministries who are nominated by these ministries are represented in this Management Committee of the Czech Railways. This means the influence of the government and the influence of the state on the activities of the Czech Railways is applied through representatives of individual resorts in the Management Committee of the Czech Railways. At the same time, it is also applied through representatives in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways. These representatives are nominated by this Steering Committee. As for the dispute described here, I just want to say very briefly at the outset that the Czech Railways ordered 20 locomotives of the 380 series at Škoda Transportation, the locomotives were to be taken over by the railway carrier in 2009, the first locomotive received only in 2013. That means, that's the beginning of the dispute that happened. The situation today is that, on the basis of the arbitration statement at the end of 2015, České dráhy filed an action before the general court and also filed a criminal complaint for the circumstances which accompanied the issue of the arbitration award. In the case of České dráhy, they request the cancellation of the arbitration award in full. The court requested evidence from the plaintiff. So far, according to my information, no action has been ordered on this matter. In the event that the Czech Railways succeed with this proposal, i.e. in the event of the cancellation of the arbitration award, the entire dispute returns to the beginning, that is, once again to the Arbitration Court. Otherwise, the Minister of Transport has decided to initiate the European Commission's examination of whether the arbitration award is contrary to public support. The main reason which led the authorities of the Czech Railways to pay the sum of CZK 460 million was therefore the existence of the final decision of the Arbitration Court. České dráhy was repeatedly called for payment and threatened interest for delays with other damage. The negotiations on an amicable solution ended unsuccessfully. Škoda Transportation rejected the proposal of the Czech Railways. This means, after assessing the overall situation, ČD decided to pay this amount. However, the dispute that I have described here, which concerns the issue of the relevant arbitration award, continues and we will have to wait for the outcome of the court's decision on these proposals submitted by the Czech Railways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u21	Thank you. The additional question of the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u22	However, Prime Minister, you must admit that after such strong words by Prime Minister Babiš and Minister Táok, where he talks about the scandalous situation, that something has happened that is almost illegal, etc., and in the meantime, a group of people who do not represent their own management of the Czech Railways will meet completely outside the official hall, yet the chairman of the Supervisory Board, former member or manager of Agrofert, the management of the ANO Parliamentary Club, simply people who have nothing to do with the whole of this case, and suddenly there will be payment of this entire billion-dollar amount, so it is simply not standard procedure and I expect you, Prime Minister, to condemn him and take measures to make such a thing Sunday, because in the case of the Czech Railways, you can, as Prime Minister, be able to exchange, for example, members of the Supervisory Board, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u24	Thank you. I really don't want to speculate right now on the basis of an article that appeared on Nekotíní.cz. I don't know if this article is true, to what extent it's really based on the fact that those people we're talking about actually met in some arrangement that's described there. What I have to base on is the relevant reasons described by the Ministry of Transport on the basis of the opinion of the management of the Czech Railways. This means that the Czech Railways have given particular reasons which led them to decide to pay CZK 760 million in an attempt to minimise the potential additional damage that could arise for the Czech Railways if they decided and decided not to pay this financial amount further. [[15.00 hours]] I consider it logical that the Czech Railways have found arguments for attacking the decision of the Arbitration Court, so I consider it logical that the Czech Railways have turned to the court. And only an independent court can assess whether the arguments that the Czech Railways apply against the arbitration are relevant or whether they are not relevant. And here we will have to wait for an independent court to decide on those actions that they filed at the General Court of the Czech Railways at the end of 2015. I assume that no speculation, no meeting can call into question this procedure, which the Czech Railways and their statutory bodies have decided to choose. Undoubtedly, the government will be interested, through the Management Committee of the Czech Railways and through the Supervisory Board, in the progress of this dispute. We certainly want the whole thing to have a minimalized negative impact on the management and functioning of the Czech Railways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Tomio Okamura, who will interpelate the Prime Minister on the matter of migrants, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u26	Prime Minister, I still don't get the relevant answers from your government. Firstly, how many migrants do you intend to bring to the Czech Republic this year and how many next year? Please give a specific number. Based on your last reply from the first March of this year, you wrote to me that by mid-2017, your government nodded to the permanent adoption of 3 091 migrants from Arab or African countries, of which your government even approved 1 500 people voluntarily and the rest are EU quotas. You act completely against the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Question two. How much money do you intend to take from Czech citizens for their resettlement, establishment and integration into our country? Please state at least an approximate specific number. I've heard at this point that the cost is more than 4 billion. Crowns. If this number is inaccurate, please, Prime Minister, correct me. Three. Why did you choose to pay for foreign migrants who illegally penetrated the territory of the European Union instead of our own Czech citizens in need? Four. Which particular cities and municipalities, Prime Minister, will have to host migrants? Please state the specific names of cities and municipalities so that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, can help the citizens of these communities to defend themselves against these actions of your government. As you know, the capacity of existing migration centres on your government agreed by thousands of migrants is not enough. Therefore, specify where you will place them. Fifthly, I ask you who gave you the mandate to distribute our country against the will of the real owners of this country, the Czech citizens. You did not talk about anything like that in the elections to accept illegal migrants who have entered the European Union and, on the other hand, you have downgraded the situation last year. Finally, I would like to stress that our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, has, from the outset, been the only party in Parliament to promote zero tolerance for illegal migration to the European Union and to the Czech Republic and, of course, also zero tolerance for the migration of any people of Islamic religion. And please, Prime Minister, for quite specific answers to individual questions and at least approximate numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u27	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to reject the utter nonsense that the government forgets our own citizens and we prefer spending on refugees to our own citizens. That's total nonsense. When you look at our government's policy, it is clear that we are significantly strengthening the expenditures that are directed towards social policy. We are strengthening the expenditure that goes into the field of family policy. We're increasing pension valorization. Only this week he went through the government proposal, it was a government proposal, no one else, so that the government could valorize the pension by as much as 2.7 percent. There's been a government proposal here so the miners from the deep mines can retire early. There was a government proposal here to significantly reduce the tax burden on families with children, which will continue, the tax burden reduction, even next year. There's been a government proposal here to increase by 10 percent the care allowance that people who are dependent on helping someone else receive. The care allowance will increase by 10 percent from August this year. We have decided in the coalition and are preparing a proposal to increase the salaries of nurses, the salaries of doctors by 10 percent. We want other salaries of public sector employees, including firefighters, policemen or, for example, people who work in culture, social services, to increase. We increased the cost of social services last year and this year. Thus, the government certainly applies such priorities as are aimed at improving the social situation of citizens in the Czech Republic. Two. We are involved in tackling the migration crisis in Europe. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey has led to a significant reduction in the number of refugees trying to get from Turkey to Greece today. It led to the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey and Greece to other countries bordering the European Union in greater numbers. This means that the agreement that we have made, that we have supported the conclusion of the Balkans, that our police officers are helping in Macedonia and other V4 countries are helping in Macedonia, stopped the main migration route that was still going to Central Europe last year. First of all, we devote the vast majority of money to improving the situation and living standards of citizens in the Czech Republic. Secondly, we support measures in Europe that already have real results and have led to a reduction in migration pressure towards the heart of Europe. And thirdly, what is the real situation in the Czech Republic? A total of 82 applications for international protection were registered in the Czech Republic from 1 to 15 April this year. The most requests for international protection have traditionally been made by nationals of Ukraine in the number of 31 applications. The second highest number of applications submitted was recorded for Iraqi nationals who submitted 19 applications. These requests are related to the program of the repatriation of Christian refugees from Iraq to the Czech Republic. The third group were members of the Russian Federation and the fourth, most numerous group were people from Cuba. That was five requests from Cuba for international protection here in the Czech Republic. Otherwise, I must say that 11 cases of transit illegal migration have been identified within this deadline from 1 to 15 April. I think the figures clearly show that we are not experiencing any dramatic migration pressure in the Czech Republic this year. The numbers correspond to the reality of the previous years. Most asylum seekers here in the Czech Republic do not come from the Middle East region, but come from other countries. And the largest number of these applicants continue to come from Ukraine and come from Russia. The capacity of the Ministry of Interior equipment is sufficient for the current migration situation in which the Czech Republic is located, and I am convinced that, thanks to the active approach of the V4, the Czech Republic will be able to cope with this situation in the context of addressing the migration crisis. And it is true that the Czech Republic is able to help as far as possible, but we are helping people who are securely tested and we are helping people who are really war refugees and need this help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u29	Thank you. I ask a supplementary question from the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u30	Prime Minister, this is unbelievable! I'm talking about the cart and you're talking about the goat. I asked about 3 091 immigrants from African and Arab countries, which your government has agreed to in the Czech Republic, and the Czech Republic must fulfil its commitments on the basis of your decision by mid-2017. It's a letter from you from March 1st. And you're answering something else entirely? I can't believe this. I don't know if we're hearing each other wrong, but you're answering Ukrajinec, answering Rus, but you're not answering what I'm asking. So the only clean solution on my part is to offer your resignation, to resign, to resign, and the new elections associated with the referendum on the reception of migrants that you have agreed to. The solution to the situation is also a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union and the subsequent withdrawal from the European Union. We have already submitted a proposal for a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the EU for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, four times here, including a petition signed by more than 100,000 citizens, and you have rejected everything. So why do you refuse to let the citizens decide for themselves their future in their country and who will they live with here? And please answer my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u32	Thank you. I am, to be honest, disappointed with the speech of the Member. And he disappoints me every time he goes to migration here in the Chamber of Deputies, because I've never heard him suggest any real concrete solution, that he would make any concrete proposal, something that would really help us here in the Czech Republic. I didn't notice anything like that. I want to assure citizens that this solution is beyond the borders of the European Union. He's in an agreement in Syria, in the end of the war in Syria. If there are several million people outside Syria before the war in Syria, they are now in Turkey, Jordan, then there is a need for those people to have a chance to come back, there is a need to give them perspective. The goal is to end the war in Syria. The aim is and the real solution is to defeat the Islamic State, so as to calm the situation in Iraq. The solution is to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan, start there political agreements between the government and the Taliban, these are real solutions. In addition, the protection of the European Union's external borders needs to be strengthened. It has become clear, by what we have proposed and pushed for, that the Balkan route has closed, that the borders between Macedonia and Greece have started to be guarded, so it has had its concrete results, because it has slowed down and stopped the migration pressure to Europe. It's obvious. This means that we must make the outbreaks that are causing migration disappear today, we must strengthen the protection of external borders. And, of course, we must help people who need this help, run away from the war, lose everything, but we must also insist on ensuring security for our citizens. And if the Czech Republic is helping specific refugees from Syria, they are always people who pass security checks. That's something we care about very much. No one comes to the Czech Republic for any assistance without security clearance without clearly verifying its identity and there could be no increase in security risks for our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u33	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the absence of members of the government, will give the sixth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u34	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is already such an evergreen when the question of the presence of the members of the government, whether at the hearing of the proper Houses, or at a point called interpelation, whether oral or written, falls and falls into the void. The Prime Minister has heard this question several times from a number of my colleagues. He always said that his colleagues in the government, that is, those in whose team, led by the Prime Minister, he would ask them to take part in the work in the House, and that does not lead to anything. This morning were to be according to regular, under the Rules of Procedure Act were to be written answers to written interpelations, were submitted four, neither one of the interpelees was here, so two hours, from nine to eleven, did not do anything. Now there are answers to oral interpelations, the ministers are excused, as I asked before the intermission, so there were eight excused, which means that out of the thirty oral interventions placed on the members of the government, more than half of them will not be able to be answered. I want to ask the Prime Minister if he really thinks that this makes any sense, that this is what interpelation is supposed to look like, that in this situation the opposition can perform its controlling role or even coalition MEPs receive answers to questions that interest them or to which they are called from their constituency. Thank you for answering this question. But I guess the answer is easier than fixing it. But that, Prime Minister, is why you are Prime Minister, and I am asking you to do the correction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister. Will you make amends?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u36	Well, thank you. I, therefore, have, on the basis of the suggestions that I have seen from the opposition Members, honourable Members, and among them Mrs Němcová, had statistics drawn up, an overview of the participation of the members of the Government in these interventions, which they always follow on Thursday, when the House meeting, after questions to the Prime Minister. The table was published, and I sent it out into a commentary procedure so that all the members of the government could comment on it, and as soon as I have an opinion from all the members of the government, I will put it at the government's meeting. It's gonna be part of the government's agenda, and I'm gonna want to talk to the ministers about their involvement. Some of them are really miserable. But I think it's pointless for me to read the table here, she's actually been published and will be the subject of government negotiations. I think any member of the government can organize their program so that he can be here on Thursday. Of course, it is pointless for government members to sit here at the moment when there are no interpelations, but the moment we learn that there are interpelations, I think that a member of government should have the ability to attend this meeting on Thursday when the meeting is held. There may be serious reasons. Among the serious reasons I count the illness, among the serious reasons I count the meetings of the institutions where the minister is irreplaceable, i.e. For example, the European Council, where the Minister cannot be represented or the meeting where he must be personally present, but I think that in these particular cases it is possible to apologise from the Chamber of Deputies' meetings. So I will strive to improve the participation of ministers. The first step to this is that of the processed statistics, which will be discussed publicly, will be discussed in the government. Every citizen has the opportunity to get acquainted with this statistics, it is not a secret document, and I suppose this public debate could serve as a useful motivation for government members to participate in oral interventions here in the Chamber of Deputies. So it will certainly be the subject of government negotiations, and we will talk about it with colleagues here at the level of the government coalition, so that the situation will improve a little bit. Otherwise, I would appreciate ministers who have a good turnout, such as Minister Herman, Minister Brabec, Ťok, Zaorálek, Marksová, Dienstbier, who are among those who participated in these interventions in a greater percentage, i.e. have been present here for more than 63 percent of the inhalation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u38	I agree, Prime Minister, that there is no need for you to read the table here, we have all seen it, and I think the public and the journalists have seen it. I also agree with you that there are serious reasons for which the members of the government are duly excused. These are the reasons you mentioned, and for this reason we would certainly not have challenged them. However, I believe that you yourself are not a good example. Not by not being at the patronage, I wouldn't want to say this, but by the time the House accepts, for example. the resolution that we adopted on the migration crisis, so you yourself said right at the end after we adopted the resolution, for example. on the fact that we do not want Turkish citizens to be granted visa-free travel, so you said immediately after the House adopted this resolution, that it was simply not the government's position, and you waved at it. Thus, by this example, you show the members of the government that they do not have to worry about our views so much. And when I think of yesterday, when the First Deputy Prime Minister prefers to campaign, and you don't make amends, and you let him ride the campaign and not fulfill his duties in the House, that's not a good example either. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u39	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u40	Thank you. I would really like to ask that, when we talk about visa liberalisation with Turkey, we know what we are talking about and describe the correct terms. This is not absolutely visa-free relations with Turkey. The point is that short-term Schengen visas, i.e. short-stay Schengen visas, will be abolished against Turkey's citizens who will have biometric documents that meet the European Union's parameters. they will be able to stay here for a maximum period of 90 days, without having to apply for a visa to the Czech Republic or to any other country of the European Union. It is not a visa waiver, it is a visa liberalisation and it concerns a stay within the Schengen area for a maximum period of 90 days. This was the case with Turkey, and this is the case with Turkey. [[15.20 hours]] Turkey has not yet fulfilled all the conditions which it should meet, or, in my opinion, the opinion of the European Commission, which says that this liberalisation of the visa regime will be granted to Turkey, is premature. It is necessary to wait for Turkey to actually meet all the conditions required for visa liberalisation. And, of course, we want there to be always a clause in these agreements for the future that it will be possible to suspend this liberalisation if there are important security or migration reasons for this. Among other things, the agreement also includes a clear readmision as regards the return of refugees from Europe to Turkey. There must be a clear possibility of returning refugees from Greece, Bulgaria and other countries to Turkey, and this must necessarily be part of this agreement. And I just want to remind you, for the record, that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was adopted only ex post. It was adopted ex post after the European Council adopted its conclusion. This resolution was not adopted by you before the European Council. You accepted him only ex post, so it could not be taken into account in the performance of the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u41	Thank you. Mrs Dana Váhalová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the current situation in OKD, will give the seventh interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear Prime Minister, the situation in the OKD is very serious. Thousands of jobs are at risk. There's a series of meetings going on. A number of them will still be going on and there is a lot of information going on in the press. In your words, the government is ready to help OKD employees. It has prepared and prepared several concrete measures to help OKD employees and, in turn, the entire region. These are early retirements for miners. Furthermore, a proposal for a special social programme which should help redundant workers. The best solution for maintaining social reconciliation in the region is to ensure the longest possible continuation of OKD mining in order to maintain employment as long as possible. In the context of this morning's meeting, I would like to ask you what is the current situation around the insolvency of OKD and the chance that mining will continue as much OKD as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies once again, because yesterday I think a very important thing has been done. Yesterday, the Chamber of Deputies passed a law that would allow early retirement for miners who had been in deep ground for at least 15 years. Of course, this is not just about people who work in OKD. It's also about miners on the Lower Corner who dug uranium, but I think it's a very important signal. The miners, who have been in deep ground for 15 years, will be able to retire seven years earlier. When we looked at the statistics, this means that it will be able to retire 670 deep-sea miners early next year and by 2018, i.e. next year and next year, more than a thousand deep-water miners will be able to retire early. This, of course, significantly reduces the social tension that exists at the moment around the possible decline of OKD. So that's the first important decision. Thank you for this to the Chamber of Deputies. The government naturally follows the situation around OKD very closely. We are now waiting for the court to decide, because we will see what the subsequent regime of this company will be after management has submitted an insolvency proposal to itself. And we're preparing concrete steps. The first after early retirement is a social programme, a social contribution prepared by the Ministry of Industry. We are following similar programmes that work in other countries of the European Union, including Slovakia. In these countries, in connection with the gradual closure of the deep mines, they introduced contributions that they provided to employees who had to leave individual companies due to the closure of the mines. And we want this social program to work for OKD employees if they have to leave the company in the coming years. So this is the first material prepared by the Minister of Industry and Trade and will be presented next week at the government meeting. Another important issue concerns active employment policy. Next week, Minister Marksová will inform the government about how the employer is doing, especially in the Moravian-Silesian Region. We have prepared a contribution for commuting to work that the unemployed in the Moravian-Silesian Region will be able to apply for. We have a meeting with companies that offer several hundred job vacancies. I would like to mention the offer from the automotive industry, which has approached the government and offers about a thousand job vacancies. Here, we are prepared to pay for retraining under the active employment policy, so that these places can also be used for workers released from OKD. There is a chance to employ people in the industrial zone in Mošnov, where the new production plant of Hyundai Mobis should be gradually put into operation also within the automotive industry. So we want to actively support the company offers that are coming today, and we would like to help, especially in terms of retraining and, in particular, on the issue of commuting to work. This is another important activity that we want to do. We also invited the head of the Mining Authority to next week's government meeting. We want to hear from him accurate information on how the Mining Authority will supervise security in OKD, on the security in the mines, because the priority is to ensure maximum security, safe operation here. And, of course, we will also monitor that all legal parameters are fulfilled in terms of further operation of OKD. What I consider important is that the company be able to fulfil its obligations to its employees, i.e. to be able to pay them wages to be able to pay them any severance payments if these employees have to leave the company. And surely the government has a strong interest in keeping the OKD operational, in order to continue mining, because this would, of course, allow us to break down the pressure on the labour market in the Moravian-Silesian region for a longer period of time. So even in this sense, the government is ready to deal with those who will now decide in this company. But we must first wait for the assessment of the proposal submitted by management, and we must wait for the decision of the court. So much for these measures very briefly. Otherwise, tomorrow, the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Labour should visit the Moravian-Silesian Region and continue the negotiations so that the government can decide fully on the next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Let's move on to the eighth interpellation. Mr. Václav Klučka will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on programme priorities for the state budget 2017. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Twenty seconds, just a little bit more about the debate that took place here yesterday at the beginning of the afternoon session, when we were reminded as coalition MPs for allowing ourselves to interpel the Prime Minister. I just want to say, on the basis of this debate, that we have the same rights as the members of the opposition and will use them. Today 37 applications were submitted to the Prime Minister, 24 of which are opposition and 13 coalitions. I think it's fair. As for my question, which Prime Minister, I would like to raise to you. In a moment, half of 2016. At the end of September, the government is obliged to submit the budget for 2017. I think that all citizens in this state are interested in what the priorities of the government are for next year. What about medium-term planning? Is the plan that was built in the 2016 budget or are there any changes due to the economic development of the Czech state? I would ask you very much to tell this to the Czech citizens, so that we know what we can count on in 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, what can we count on in 2017?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u48	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, perhaps what Mr Klučka said at the beginning of his interpelation. I think that, even in previous parliamentary periods, all MEPs have been interpelling, whether they belong to a government or opposition camp. It was a little more complicated in the past because very often government parties were falling apart, most of them changed, so then it wasn't quite so obvious who belonged to. Especially in the last parliamentary term, at the very end of the operation of Nečasův' government, which was drifting in a very intense way. So I think that this is perfectly natural, and I don't think you can deny the right to interpel any member or member of the Chamber of Deputies. I would perhaps start with the situation in which we are preparing the next year's budget. We're preparing it in a situation where we're past 2015, which turned out very well. It turned out very well in terms of the state's management. Last year we had a general budget deficit of 0.4 percent of gross domestic product. This was the lowest deficit ever during the period when the Czech Statistical Office is monitoring this in Eurostat. We belonged to a group of countries in the European Union that actually had the lowest deficit. We had a lower deficit than Slovakia. We had a lower deficit than Poland. I suspect we had a lower deficit than Austria. This, of course, was also reflected in the fact that the state budget also managed with a lower deficit. Last year we achieved economic growth, which exceeded 4%, and the figures from spring this year show that the Czech Republic has the lowest unemployment rate throughout the European Union according to data from the Czech Statistical Office. That's the first time in 20 years. After 20 years, we have achieved the best numbers in employment, and we are at our best from 28 countries in the European Union. Historically, Germany or Austria always had lower unemployment rates than the Czech Republic did. In the spring of this year, the Czech Republic has lower unemployment rates than Germany and lower unemployment rates than Austria. Not to mention Poland and Slovakia, they have always had higher unemployment rates in the long run than we have, and it is still the case. So we are drawing up a budget in a situation where the economy is growing, where tax revenues are increasing, where we have low unemployment, and so, in my view, we have the means to ensure that, as a government, economic growth is also reflected at the citizens' standard of living. The government has the tools to do this, it can support wage growth, it can improve the life situation of pensioners, it can, of course, provide funds to improve the quality of public services. So, if I are to mention the basic priorities, first of all, it is important that we ensure functioning public services and quality public services for our citizens. I'd start with health care because health comes first. We need to have enough nurses, it is becoming a big problem in the Czech Republic. We need to deal with the lack of doctors, and therefore the first priority I see is the stabilization of health next year, improving the remuneration of nurses, improving also the remuneration of doctors working in hospitals, and increasing payments for state insured people so that we can really stabilize health in the Czech Republic economically next year and create the prerequisites for it to continue to be as good as it is today. The second important priority that I see is the start of drawing on European funds. We were so successful last year because we were pumping up European funds a lot, which supported economic growth. We must allocate funds to start drawing European funds into new programmes. Another priority is the question of the situation of seniors. We do not want to repeat this year's low pension valorisation, which is why we have already agreed in the coalition that the pension should be valued by approximately 200 crowns on average next year. Security remains an important priority. We are strengthening defence spending, strengthening the police, recruiting new military members, new police members, and the government's goal is to create conditions for improving citizens' security next year, and the budget must bear that in mind. Terrorist dangers have not disappeared, there are risks and we need to be as ready as the Czech Republic. And, of course, we want to continue to improve the situation with regard to the financing of education. We would also like to increase the capacity of primary and kindergartens where this is needed as a result of demographic developments. So many at least some of the basic priorities that we will try to implement in the preparation of the budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u49	Thank you. The Member does not have an additional question. So let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Martin Plíšek will intersect the Prime Minister on the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the fate of the government amendment to the conflict of interest law, which has begun to be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies in the sense that it may remain parked in the Chamber of Deputies and not discussed almost until the end of the term of office. I would like to remind you that at the convention of your political party of the ČSSD, you adopted a very courageous resolution that you want to tighten up the conflict of interest with members of the government and that you want to combat the accumulation of media, economic and political power. The recent Bureau of your political party unanimously adopted an amendment to your Member's proposal, which also submitted a tightening-up of the conflict of interest law. When the Public Procurement Act was discussed, when it was also my proposal to exclude government members' companies from public procurement, you said, "Let's not put it in this law here, put it in the context of the conflict of interest law. This has also happened and the Constitutional Committee has adopted fundamental amendments to this law. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you were serious about the declaration on the fight against conflicts of interest, social democracy, or whether you were afraid of the threat of the ANO movement, that if it goes through tightening up the conflict of interest, it could mean the end of a government coalition. And then I want to ask you when you want to discuss a government amendment to the conflict of interest law in the House of Deputies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u52	honourable Members, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest is a government proposal. It was submitted by the Government of the Czech Republic. We put him on the stand to tighten up the conflict of interest law. Not to relax him. That is why there are a number of provisions in the proposal that came here from the government that I think are reasonable. The first is the question of information on the property of a public official on the date on which he enters a public office. You know, we've had a long discussion here in the past about what those declarations of public officials should actually look like, what data should be available there. Over the past few years, the system has established itself to report on the increase in assets, which means every year the public official informs whether it has grown, reduced its assets, such as loans and the like. The aim of this government amendment is to give us the basic information that relates to the property situation of the relevant public official at the outset. The second important change that the amendment brings is the introduction of a single register where information should be concentrated in electronic form. Today, they are fragmented with the individual institutions to which the declarations are made. It is, of course, very inconspicuous, difficult to get to. So the aim of the amendment is for there to be one register where all the statements will be. Let's say that's the government's main intention. We sent a novel here to the House, and we started a process that we know about other bills. There are amendments that the Government has not tabled, which Members and Members have put forward, and we have to deal with them by voting. I hope that the bill comes next, I assume that if it is not at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies that it will be discussed at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and that once the relevant time limits have passed, there will be a vote on these individual proposals. The fact that some of these proposals are controversial in the coalition is a reality, I think that is what the Member has described. This means that we will also act in the coalition before the vote, and we will look for some form of coalition agreement on those parliamentary amendments. And I think it is also important to wait for the proposals to be presented in the second reading here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary when the second reading takes place. I certainly want to say for myself, and I think that even for social democracy, it is not our intention to slow down or delay this proposal in any way. At the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I suppose we could finish the discussion of the proposal so that the bill can be adopted by the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u53	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u54	The spell's in the detail. Let me ask you a specific question. You know, if we don't put a point firmly on the agenda of the meeting, it's usually eliminated at the end of the meeting and it's in line with the hundreds of unnegotiated proposals. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether you will support the solid inclusion of the second reading of this proposal at the next meeting and the third reading of this proposal, say either at the next or no later than the September meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u55	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u56	Thank you. I think there are two things. First of all, I think there's absolutely nothing to prevent this law from being negotiated by summer, because it's already in the phase of waiting for second reading. After the second reading, there are some legal deadlines and then we can get to the third reading. In my opinion, nothing prevents the law from being discussed by summer. As far as the specific vote is concerned, I can hardly comment here on the vote in a situation where I do not know how individual laws will be included and how priorities will be put forward in terms of what we will need to discuss as a government coalition. This means that we will vote in such a way as to allow this bill to be discussed, but, as far as individual priorities are concerned, we will, of course, still be talking about those in the coalition. And I do not think that we should prevent that law from being firmly included in the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't see why. But it may happen that it will be firmly placed, but other points will still be included before it, which the government will consider to be a priority and important one. I want to remind you, for example, of the subject we discussed here today, that's the question of the EIA. You probably know, and I hope that the Ministers of Transport and the Environment have had the opportunity to inform you that the Government wants an amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, we would like to discuss it quickly and we will endeavour to make it a priority for Parliament's negotiations, because it is about us continuing as soon as possible with the important constructions that this amendment will concern. So I'm sure there'll be other priorities than the conflict of interest law. But I don't think the law should wait longer than summer and we could discuss it by summer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u57	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We're getting to the tenth interpellation. Ms Pavlína Nytrová will intersect the Prime Minister on the issue of pension valorisation 2017. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u58	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the government has eliminated an unfairly legislative system of pension valorisation. In 2012, there was a fundamental change in the rules on raising pensions by the adoption of Act No. 220/2011 Sb. - a regular term of January and an extraordinary term. A new method of determining the increase in pensions was defined on the basis of statistical data on price and wage developments without leaving the possibility to influence the increase in pensions by government decisions. Now the Chamber of Deputies has given power to the government to increase pensions beyond the current legislation. An increased limit of government authorisation from 1.7 % to 2.7 percent of the average old-age pension has been approved. The pensions can thus be valued by up to 300 crowns. However, in a situation where inflation is at a low level, according to the current level of valorisation, increases in pensions are also very low. The current draft amendment to the Pension Insurance Act approved by the Government aims to avoid a nominally very low increase in pensions. Dear Prime Minister, will you keep your commitment to making increases according to the amended law no longer nominally significant? Is the government planning any measures to help today's, but above all future pensioners save funds of such an amount that will suffice them to live in retirement with dignity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u60	Thank you. honourable Members, I would first of all like to confirm that the government is proceeding systematically in the area of pension valorisation. And we're going systematically to improve the living conditions of the elderly. When we came to the government, the situation was that there was a law that practically froze pension growth, because he said that pensions would be valorized, but they would only valorized in a way that was limited to the previous system, which means that inflation was not fully taken into account, but only partially taken into account. This led to low pension valorisations. We changed the pattern. And it turned out that, despite the remaining low inflation, the renewed legal mechanism of valorisation does not produce satisfactory results. We have returned to the mechanism that has worked here in the past, that pensions will valorize by one hundred percent of inflation, one third of wages. But it turns out that if we applied it, there's a risk of low valorisation again. With regard to the valorization that we discussed at the end of 2014, so if the mechanism were applied, in January 2015, the valorisation would be less than 70 crowns. Therefore, we proposed a specific amendment to the law, which enabled that pension valorisation from January 2015 was on average CZK 207. So then we rejected the option of 70 crowns and went to the variant of 207 crowns. In terms of valorisation this year, according to the statutory scheme, it was only CZK 40 and we decided to compensate for it and that is why we paid every pensioner in February of this year, and this concerns both elderly and disabled pensioners, CZK 1,200 extra benefits, which was to match the low forty-coron valorization for this year. But since we do not want this situation to happen again in the coming years, the government has put forward a new proposal that would prevent us from being in the hands of a valorisation machine and can't actually do anything like this happened in the spring of this year. Because if the government wanted to raise the pension by more than 40 crowns this year, it wouldn't allow it. I think it's wrong. So we have submitted an amendment to the law that will allow the government to increase pension by up to 1.7 percent. And I am glad that an amendment has been approved here in the Chamber of Deputies, which will allow the government to do so by as much as 2.7 percent. I want to thank you for the law being passed here in the Chamber of Deputies. If the Senate approves it, the government will be in a different situation from next year, it will have relatively wide room for manoeuvre and will be able to decide for itself how high the valorisation will be. Only here will there be an upper limit, which is set at 2,7 %. The government can't get past that limit. The limit means that the maximum valorization next year could be around 300 crowns. With regard to the decision of the government coalition, if this law is passed, we have so far agreed in the government that pension valorisation next year should be approximately CZK 200 on average, and we are conducting negotiations on this - and we will see if tax collection is good next year - but we are also negotiating that if taxes are well collected, we could also pay the one-off contribution of CZK 1,200 to each pensioner next year. So far, the agreement on CZK 200 is on average from 1 January next year and we will discuss in the coalition whether there will be a budget area after the new year, so that in 2017, we can proceed to this one-off contribution. But what is crucial and important is that yesterday's House decision, which I hope the Senate will confirm, has fundamentally changed the government's manoeuvring space, and the government should finally be able to valorize pensions to a greater extent, and the situation we experienced at the beginning of this year should no longer be repeated, when the valorisation could be at most CZK 40 and the government had its hands completely tied. I'm saying this because it's impossible for us to ignore the social situation of seniors. I was talking about the economy growing, the parameters are improving, but the growth of the economy in the elderly can be reflected in the income of the economy in principle only by valorizing pensions. Growth is reflected in household income by higher wages, higher salaries, but we must valorize pensions for the elderly. And as a result of economic growth, we have the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Your answer was exhausting. Mr Radim Fiala, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the issue of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, will give an 11th interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you at the outset because you have refused to answer specific questions to our chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamur. How many immigrants will the Czech Republic accept? How much will it cost the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic? And what villages and cities will be affected by this? And I'm asking you not to drive yourself crazy and answer not only to me, Tomio Okamur, but to our citizens in particular. Allow me to continue my own interpellation. Let me ask you a question about the resolution of the European Parliament and the resolution of the European Commission, which calls for the introduction of mandatory quotas for the admission of immigrants for individual Member States. I ask you, Prime Minister, that the Government take a clearly negative position on this matter. It is an intention that tramples on the sovereignty of the Czech Republic in a rough manner. Let's not let the numbers lull us. It is a principle that will mean losing our control over who lives in this country. The country is a Czech state and was built under the extraordinary sacrifice of our nation. It is not yet a province or administrative district of European bureaucrats. Our country has never had any colonies, we do not have to suffer from a sense of historical responsibility for problems in certain countries. I do not want to judge, yet, whether the immigration policy of the European Union is a fatal error or an evil plan aimed at destroying Europe's national and social structures. But let us not be illusioned, some immigrants are religious fanatics who bring terror and war, war, terror and crime. Prime Minister, let's stand against this. If this proposal is approved in Brussels, it is necessary to respond in one possible way. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And that is the European Union's withdrawal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u63	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u64	Thank you. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, I think I will disappoint Mr Fiala, but we will not be leaving the European Union. I consider membership of the European Union to be useful not only for our prosperity, stability, but also for our security. Being members of the European Union and being members of the North Atlantic Alliance increases our chances of succeeding in this dangerous world in which we live. I think we can agree on one thing: unfortunately, the security climate in the world around Europe has deteriorated over the last few years. There are no good times ahead of us, we are facing the risks of instability. We have terrorism, we have global warming, climate change, many countries today have problems not only with religious fanatics, but also with their lack of water. Maybe that's a problem that's even bigger. We have a number of regional conflicts around Europe, so we need to prepare for this. We need to be reasonable, rational. But I would also like to remind you that many people running to Europe today are running from these conflicts and from these wars. And to unleash these conflicts and wars, or to initiate them, have very often been involved in different countries, and Europe needs to take greater responsibility for stability in its surroundings. We must support the end of war conflicts. This will significantly weaken the migratory pressures that are heading for Europe today. That's the key thing we have to do. The Czech Government is proceeding as we said at the beginning, that is, defending our interests, but defending them within the European Union, defending them within the scope of the possibilities given to us by membership of the European Union. We sit at one table with the other 27 countries, we have the right to say our thoughts, and we can also say what we don't like. As far as the European Commission's latest proposals are concerned, I do not consider them reasonable. These are proposals that the Czech Republic cannot largely support. I do not agree that there are quotas for the permanent redistribution of refugees. I do not agree that countries that do not want to participate in the quotas should be penalized by drastic fines which would go to the European budget. I think that immigration policy is within the competence of individual national governments and should remain that way, and each country should decide how many people it can help, how much resources it has at its disposal, how it can integrate them, and should be committed to helping and solidarity itself. But it cannot be an ordered solidarity, it cannot be quotas, and it cannot be punishing countries that do not want quotas, some financial penalties, whether they are fines or refugee payments, or even reducing cohesion funds for countries that do not agree with the European Commission's proposals. The Czech Government will therefore hold a dissenting position on quotas and we will hold a dissenting position if proposals were to re-establish the transfer of powers in the area of migration asylum policy from national countries to European structures. Here we defend the position that the Czech Republic should be sovereign in this. However, we must participate in the search for a European solution. We are part of the Schengen area. Apart from airports, we don't have external borders, and we have to wonder what's going on at the external borders. We need to know what regime will work there, and we, as the Czech Republic, should support all initiatives that will help protect the external Schengen borders and regulate the migratory current, which today was especially from the Middle East, but in the future may appear, for example, from North Africa or some other directions. Europe has to prove in this that it is functional. This has not been very successful for the past two years, so the V4 criticized such a naive approach in the beginning of two years ago by a number of European Union leaders to address the migration crisis. And I am glad that the atmosphere in Europe has changed. Security aspects now play a very important role, and the Czech Republic is ready to support the search for a common European solution on the external Schengen border in helping countries that are now the source states of migration, including Turkey, because Turkey is hosting more than 2 million refugees from Syria today, and we need to create decent conditions for these people in Turkey and allow them to return to Syria by ending a war in Syria that has unfortunately been raging for five years now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u66	Thank you. Prime Minister, there is no common European solution and, unfortunately, there will not be one. But sovereignty is exactly what it is. Tell us whether we are standing before the Chamber of Deputies of the Sovereign State or before some assembly of representatives of some colony controlled from Brussels. Tell us if this government is interested in defending the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. And if so, tell the citizens as well as in the UK to speak about it in a referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u67	Please, Prime Minister, your most likely final follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we were a colony before 1989. That was the colony of the Soviet Union. We haven't had a separate foreign policy, Russian troops have been here since 1968, we've had Russian crews here. We did not have our own security policy and everything was subject to the will of one country, then the Soviet Union. We came out of that colony in 1989 on the basis of the decision of our citizens, and on the basis of the decision of our citizens in a referendum, we joined the European Union, and on the basis of the consensus of most political parties, we also joined the North Atlantic Alliance. But this is not a question of colonies. We are a sovereign state. As far as the European Union is concerned, we have given up some powers in favour of the integrated whole on the basis of a referendum by citizens, on the basis of citizens' decisions. And as far as the North Atlantic Alliance is concerned, it is a collective defence institution where countries have gathered to improve their ability to protect their citizens from serious security threats. So it's a different situation than it was here before 1989. And a democratically elected government can undoubtedly promote the interests of the Czech Republic both in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u69	Since it is 3:59 p.m. and we will no longer be able to interview the Prime Minister again, I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and we will freely go to oral interpelations with the members of the government. The first interview should be given by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who should interpel the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the grounds of the abolition of the educational field by a practical physician for children and adolescents. Since it's not 16 o'clock yet, let's wait a little while to see if the MP is coming or not. [[He's waiting.]] [[16.00 hours]] There. It's 4:00. Unfortunately, Mr Ludvík Hovorka is not present, so we will continue with our next interview. Mrs Zuzana Šánová will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on Czechia. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u70	Hello, everyone present. I'm going to give my interview to Secretary Karla Šlechtová. Dear Minister, not only me, but a number of Czech citizens in the Czech Republic, Moravia and Silesia were surprised by the report that Minister Zaorálek decided to rename the Czech Republic to Czechia. Minister Zaorálek can certainly call the Czech Republic what he wants in private. On official occasions, however, he should respect that the Czech Republic does not belong to him. I do not want to discuss whether the English word Czechia is the correct translation of the unofficial name of our country Czech Republic, or rather about Čechia, the mythical monument of all Čech. The important thing is that the constitutional name of our country is the Czech Republic, and I believe that it is simply not possible for the government, even for foreign use, to change it. Building a brand on a world scale costs time and money. Investment in a brand that is strikingly similar to another, by the way, not exactly the best reputation at the moment, besides, I don't think there's any point. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you to take a look at this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interview. I will take the liberty of responding through the President. The whole situation was created in such an unfortunate way. Last week, I asked the government basically how the government wasn't informed. However, I must say that the only person who really explained the whole situation to me was the Prime Minister, who told me that at the castle meeting there was a political decision by the highest constitutional officials, but it does not have executive authority. He will then ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit material to the government where he will explain everything. The material went through a narrow inter-ministerial reminder procedure, where I say very openly that not one comment from the Ministry of Regional Development has been settled. Because we have an agency called CzechTourism because we were building a logo here, the logo costs a few million, but the campaigns did not, of course, cost a small amount, even because European funds were being spent on them. I'm not gonna judge whether it was expensive or not, because it was decided by someone else before me. Of course, I asked why this political decision does not have, for example, a cost analysis, why we do not see a future there, etc. The material we mentioned for my resort contains one basic information, and this is that in English the name The Czech Republic is shortened to the UN database in Czechia. I strongly disagree with this position, in which I do not like it as a citizen, I really do not like the name, I have also communicated it to the government, but despite my disapproval, the government has decided to approve and take note of this. So at this point, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is authorized to ask the UN to shorten this name of the Czech Republic. Of course, it evokes that there is probably some sort of natural evolution of this name in English as well as in sports events and marketing events, which I have responded very intensively to, because this does not just concern political decisions, but it also requires money. If that is enough for you, Madame, through the President? [[Yes.]] Of course, I can go into detail, but I think that's good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u73	Thank you. The Member is obviously satisfied with your answer, Madam Secretary. We'll move on to another interpellation. Mrs Anna Putnová will intersect the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the financing of science centres.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u74	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my question is addressed to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová on the financing of science centres. In the Czech Republic in 2015, eight science centers were spread throughout the Czech Republic, and it can be said that their construction, security and operation are very successful. After all, the annual visit is over 1.5 miles. visitors, with school groups representing up to 30% and parents with children 50 percent. This is a promotion of communication of science, popularization of science, informal education and an opportunity for parents and their responsible education of their children. However, this science center, which was supported by more than 2.5 billion. Czech crowns from the OP VaVpI programme face concerns about their future regarding funding. In European countries, 30 per cent of the budget of these centres is usually financed from the state budget. I would therefore like to ask Minister Valachová whether she assumes that the future of Czech science centres will also be saturated with 30% of their budget from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u75	Thank you, too. Good afternoon. You will be answered in writing. Mr Novotný will intersect the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u76	Good afternoon. I'm a little winded, 'cause I almost didn't make it. Dear Minister, there has been a report in the press in recent days which I could briefly and popularly sum up so that the Czech Railways have bypassed you in a competition for the purchase of new trains, for which it appears from some of your comments that this competition, a rather large tender of many billions of crowns, could be tailored to one particular company. Coincidentally, in the case in quotation marks, the wind blows in the same direction as in the topic of arbitration, which has already been mentioned here in the interpellations to the Prime Minister, where it was the known 753 miles. CZK, and it applies again to škodovka and that often in the last days mentioned meeting between some representatives of the ANO movement in Prostějov with some representatives of Škodovka as such. You have expressed yourself very critically both on the aspects of the payment of the arbitration amount and on the tender, and I want to ask you what you will do in the coming days and weeks in this matter and what practical steps you will take to turn your critical statements into specific actions in relation to both the tender and possibly the arbitration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to this intervention. I'll start with the tender. I wouldn't mark it as the České dráhy bypassed me. No way. České dráhy put in the Journal, or announced their intention to draft a framework contract for the purchase of cars. The way it is written, but in particular the way that it is framework, not specific lines, specific cars, makes me think that it could suit some participants more than others. So I want a review done. I presume and will want the Czech Railways to cancel this competition so that we can agree that they will write this competition on a specific number of cars or sets on specific lines. She's also a little intense in our efforts to buy a set for the lines ordered by the Department of Transport, so we're gonna put it together. So a specific answer to a specific question: I would like the Czech Railways to cancel this tender, and I am taking steps to make it happen. As far as arbitration is concerned with Škoda Transportation - yes, I am also a little critical there. On the one hand, I understand and understand that the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways is exposed to a situation in which they have a judgment that is final but not enforceable. They have a duty not to increase the loss that could theoretically or in some circumstances arise by non-payment of interest. They are in a situation where they have some 27 billion-dollar loan conditions that could be due by failing to do some things, and that could create further damage. But most of all, they have to refinance the debt that was left behind after past leadership, and they have to ensure that the Czech Railways continue to function. Well, in this matter, they decided that they might react more carefully than I would expect them to, and they paid the sum of 760 million. On the other hand, I have to say, we're running into a dispute that the verdict isn't right. It was the first standing, more will continue. I believe there is a great chance that the Czech Railways can win this dispute. There is an action or a criminal complaint is filed with the Police of the Czech Republic, which should run at this time and is ongoing. In addition, through the ÚOHS, we have submitted a request for notification to the European Commission to say whether the payment of such a fine, which was not negotiated in the original contract under the Public Procurement Act, was without unlawful enrichment or illegal State aid. And if - and we are waiting for a decision by the European Commission rather quickly - if this happens here, I am almost sure that the Czech court cannot decide in such a case other than that at least this amount, which the board of directors, in order to prevent more damage and with care of the proper economy, will pass. I don't think there's any danger of losing the money. If we win, and I'm convinced that our chances are high, so there's a place to take the money, even though today reports have popped up that Škoda Transportation owns a company, as we said before, which is based in tax havens, so it's not exactly who it is, and some of its owners are involved in the Panama Papers affair. So I'm still very curious about what it's going to be like from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u79	Thank you. Member, if he wishes to ask an additional question - yes, that is the case. Please, you have the floor. I will also apologize to Mr Kubíček, apologizing between five and nineteen, and the Minister of Defence apologizes from half five to the end of the day. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u80	I wanted to ask one more specific aspect. After all, some disharmony between some of those events and your view of them was obvious, couldn't help but notice it. At the same time, we suspect that in the Czech Railways your ministry represents Mr Feranec in an important position. I want to ask you, do you have the impression that he is doing his will in the quotes of the person who delegated him there?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u81	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u82	Yes. Deputy Feranec is my deputy. He had pouvoir to negotiate with Skoda Transportation. And from the steps that are happening, I feel that he is doing the steps that he takes from him as owner or as holder or owner of the Czech Railways, so that he does them. [[Expects?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u83	Mr Ondráček's interpellation to the Minister of the Interior will be the next intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I will ask the Minister for one such thing that we have intersected together in writing. I believe he'll take it as a friendly poke, even in the morning I expected that we could interpel those two rejected written interpelations, but it wasn't. So just the name: SKPV badges. I don't know, as you know, at the end of last year, they took away all members of the criminal police service and investigating their service badges, and they were getting new ones. It didn't happen. And at the beginning of the year, I intersected the Minister and asked him why they didn't get it, what was stopping it, and when they would get it. The minister replied that it was a complex technology that the badges were to be made by 30 November last year, but that they would definitely be by the end of February of this year. If you look, today's May 5th. I called several parts of the SKPV this morning and asked the CSI officers if they already had badges. They told me with grief that we haven't had six months. So our cops are walking without badges, and I'm going to ask, Mr. Minister, when are you going to compete so that those CSIs have a SKPV badge or criminal police and can prove themselves? That's how they feel, let's say, affected. So only if you tell me where we stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u85	The Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ondráček is right about the fact that I have given the time figures here, which unfortunately have not been fulfilled. I draw from what the Police of the Czech Republic will tell me as the sponsor of the competition. There's really been a shift in that thing, and that's because the first batch of badges the police got wasn't good. That's why the first shipment was returned. It was returned within the scope of the complaint period and the complaint process. To this day, police officers have received 1,306 pieces of badges without any defects that have been distributed between them. All in all, there's going to be 12,000 badges, so we're at one-tenth. Now perhaps the manufacturer - and the technology is really more complex - did not sign up for the competition - so perhaps the machine has already tuned in so that the badges that it will produce will be able to take over without any defects. The agreement is that there should be supplies of about one thousand badges a week, i.e. Four thousand badges a month. If we're down to 11,000 now, I hope that three months from now, the problem will be out of the world. It's a competition, it's a signed contract. And I want to guarantee you here, my colleague, through Mr President, even if I can directly interpel, if I am not mistaken, that any penalty arrangements in the contract will be used to the detriment of the supplier. That means, for the delay, even for the low-quality delivery that was, the police will ask for compensation for the damage that was caused, and they will ask for the contractual performance that the contract contains, as I was told.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u87	Yes. The Member shall have the opportunity to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u88	Just in a nutshell. Unfortunately, the Police Presidium isn't very good at public procurement. She doesn't do well in winter shoes, let's say some equipment parts, but good leather jackets have succeeded. If the problem isn't exactly in the officials who are supposed to do the public contracts. I'm just glad it didn't happen at first that they took their service shoes, and then they didn't start competing new ones, because that's what our cops would be doing barefoot. I'll be glad if something like this happens, and I'll keep an eye on what the sanctions will be. I'm saying, try to make sure it really works. It's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u89	The Minister, if he wishes to respond, may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u90	I'm not going to argue that it's sad. I understand that cops are used to wearing that badge. I'm sorry about the situation. It really happened here that the company that won the competition, and the competition is legal, so we have to de facto fulfil the contractual relationship that we have with them, even at a time when they don't, because if we were to withdraw from the contract, we wouldn't have the badges in four months, but we would have to do it in a year or a year and a half before the next competition was successful. Dear Member, I will have an analysis of how well the contracts at the Police President's office are doing, because I am convinced that you are wrong about this, and I will, of course, be very happy to provide you with that analysis. In the last two years, I would say there has been a major shift in both IT and equipment components. Of course, the question is that there was a law on the award of public contracts that allowed companies that supplied and were not successful in the competition to block some competitions very effectively. An example of this is, for example, competition for ballistic means, i.e. protective vests. And I would very much hate for the House of Deputies to come here to the impression that the state of public procurement is perhaps deteriorating at the Police President's Office. I don't mean to exaggerate, but if you look at the comparison he's issued now, I suspect, the Watchdog, the Home Office, in terms of centralized purchases, is the best of all ministries, I suspect there was a 160 percent increase compared to the planned state. I will give you the analysis, and I will give it to all Members, so that we are clear on this. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u91	That's how we exhausted the fifth interpellation. The sixth is an interview by Mrs Kovářová to the Minister of Finance, who is excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u92	Serious Minister, allow me to address you with an interview on social services salaries. I note that I gave a similar interview this April to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In this interpelation, I am not concerned with the adequacy of the level of salaries in social services, as one might estimate from the name of the interpelation, but a little bit different. On one of my visits to one of the Central Bohemia's low-level facilities, I learned that a relatively big problem for its director and later also for employees is that they receive subsidies only during the year, say in March or April, which means a problem for their cash flow. The first month of the year's salaries must be borrowed due to a lack of funds. But getting credit is not easy for them as a non-profit organization. Everything could be resolved if the relevant subsidies were distributed earlier. I have learned that there is a government resolution that requires you and Secretary Marksová to find a solution to this unpleasant problem. I would therefore like to ask about the timetable for the steps that will lead to the solution and the idea of the Ministry of Finance with which you will go into these negotiations. Thank you for your answer. At the very end, I would like to wish the Minister an early recovery, even so that he can come back to us again. First of all, we would like to see him again after a while. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u93	The answer will arrive in writing. Mr Seďa, who will intersect the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the Ministry of Transport, as you presented at the press conference, is preparing a revision of the point system. You want to punish the most serious offenses, including the definition of the amount of fines instead of the current margin. I personally agree with the need for repression, but this should be based on an analysis of the causes of traffic accidents, their number, as well as whether and how enforcement is controlled. And what's important to me is far more affecting relapse, that's a repeat of offenses. On the other hand, I do not think that by constantly increasing repression or fines, the desired goal will be achieved, which is to reduce the accident rate and, in particular, the number of dead and injured on our roads. Dear Minister, we may agree that prevention is much better, for example in those sections where traffic accidents are repeated or more frequent. Not only me, but the vast majority of drivers have a negative experience with a recurring and unsolved disorder on the D1 motorway in particular. This means overtaking trucks by trucks where there are only two lanes. As you know, these vehicles have a limited maximum speed, and before the overtake occurs, a large motorcade of cars will be created behind the vehicle. Not only does overtaking itself reduces, and even threatens other drivers, but also reduces traffic flow, which once again increases the risk of accidents. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, whether it would not be more effective to address the problems described and to address prevention rather than to increase repression again. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u95	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Sedya through the President. I agree with you on one thing. Prevention is better than repression, it is our philosophy and we try to take a lot of steps in prevention, especially through BESIP, through driver training. We're about to make a big amendment to the Driving School Act, which should sort things out. However, when we analysed the situation, and it was not only the Ministry of Transport, but it was mainly cooperation with the transport police of the Czech Republic, we came to the conclusion that the system of fines for offences was basically not amended for almost 15 or even 20 years, and they are still at a relatively low level. So you're right, and we agree that prevention and education are the most important thing. However, there are also types of drivers to which nothing but repression applies. The fact is that there are sometimes such unorthodox proposals that I would quite like, but they have a problem with the administrative order that what is most valuable to the driver is not a fine as such for chronic offenders, but it is time. That means, maybe if we were able to stop them on the freeway, put them in a rest stop and deal with them for two hours, they'd think about losing a lot more time in this way than they'd do with a quick ride. As far as our proposal is concerned - and as I say, this is a joint proposal by the transport police and the Ministry of Transport and we are having a broad public debate on it, we have had a seminar with transport specialists, we call on the public to comment on it, and we want to have a similar debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, in order to bring Members and senators into the debate or debate on the amount of fines and the point system and its amendment. So our idea is a follow-up. We're not going in the direction that we'd like to increase the fines across the board. Our point is to be able to punish the most serious offenses with higher fines. The point is, these are misdemeanors that threaten people's lives. And that's where we propose an increase in fines. We are also going there in a way that we want to unite today's practice so that it is not fragmented so that it has internal logic. In other words, it's the principle twice and enough for the major offenses. If you make a second offense, you don't get a chance to do it, or if you do it twice, you just lose your license. [[16.30 hours]] We are tightening up on major offences, on the contrary, we are giving the police the opportunity to be much more lenient. And at the request of the traffic police, we put the principle that in the event of a traffic accident, it may or may not be doubled. It's not about punishing someone, it's not about punishing someone over peace. Our goal is to achieve what we want on the roads - to increase safety. We've had a trend here for the past ten years that the number of fatal road accidents has decreased. Unfortunately, the last year has been a year where the trend has turned and the number of deaths has increased, and we think something needs to be done. I would also like to add - in this proposal we are also thinking about a long-term problem, and this is the problem of new drivers. I deliberately say not young, but new, those who are not experienced. We propose that a driver who has a driving licence for less than a year or two will still have a debate on this, so that he has fewer points than the others. That means, instead of twelve, he'd have six. That one seminar ended up having seven, so he wouldn't lose his driver's license right after the first point. [[Time.]] So I've been a long time. I'm sorry, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u97	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'd have two notes and one or more questions. One. In some Western countries, the amount of offenses is graduated by income. I want to ask because for someone there is a significant amount of CZK 10,000, for some it is not such a large amount, if you are not considering this change as well. Two. You mentioned it here - prevention, that's okay. But I don't think it's just the most serious offenses, but, as I mentioned, the criminal relapse, when someone always has the offenses. And thirdly, you haven't answered my question, and I understand that it's very unpleasant for every transport minister to deal with the problem of overtaking trucks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u99	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u100	Mr President, honourable Members, I am sorry, I have forgotten that point. You know, overtaking trucks in places where it's undesirable can be regulated by local road arrangements nowadays. That means where there are three lanes on the freeway, so we're opening up this option and we're gonna initiate that sign to be there, and most importantly, that the police, the traffic police in this case, require it. I don't think that's such a good idea. In fact, we would therefore be very much in cases where this is not such a big problem, making it impossible for trucks to overtake and it could be that we could create potentially worse dangerous situations from the nervousness of these drivers. We as the Ministry will not propose a general ban, it does not seem appropriate to us. On the other hand, we will support everywhere the ban on overtaking trucks, so that we do not happen to have three lanes of highway and in parallel there are three trucks, one passing the second, which passes the third, I think it is already really, as they say in Czech, zu viel. So here's to that. And then about the height of the fines derived from the salary. I have read that this is a proposal that Mr Huml wants to make. I, of course, do not resist this, but the question is whether such a case would complicate the whole process even more. [[Time.]] But I don't want to stall anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u101	Thank you. I beg Mr Farský, who will be the next interviewer, Mrs Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable members of the government, I received a request from firefighters from Zákup, but also from Žandov and Oldřichov, who succeeded in obtaining the subsidy, but when they wanted to declare a tender for delivery under the Public Procurement Act, they were advised to comment on the statement by the Ministry for Regional Development that they should wait, that there is no guarantee that the selection procedure would not be called into question, given that, as of 18 April 2016, the new or significantly amended Public Procurement Act should be issued, and it will be effective only from October, with the recommendation that it was therefore recommended that they should essentially suspend the drawing of European subsidies with reference to the fact that they should wait until an interpretation by the National Coordination Authority has been issued. I would like to ask why this has not been dealt with in advance, because we certainly had to assume that we are long-term, and I personally pointed out that we cannot do this by 18 April, a new law on public procurement should be adopted in such a way that it is effective at that time. And if this has already led to the recommendation that individual applicants now suspend the use of European subsidies, then when the interpretation will be given, which will once again allow them to draw these amounts and compete without risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u103	So, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interpellation, which I will respond to in a way that, when I came here with a new law, I made it clear from my mouth that this law must, of course, be effective from 18 April. On the contrary, I have pointed out to both the Government and the Chamber of Deputies that the effectiveness must be, otherwise we are simply at risk of a reasoned position, infringement and other things. The Member spoke to one example of a project by one applicant, which - it really was not an MMR, it was the Centre for Regional Development. It reacted in a way that they should wait for a brief opinion to wait for a moment, which we will issue. Then why haven't we published it yet? Because we have verified it with the European Commission, and we have primarily compared the old law to what has passed, what has been approved from all amendments to simply a return to the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, I can guarantee that this position will be issued tomorrow, because, of course, I am pushing it, not by the National Coordination Authority, but above all by the section of public investment, which is the gesture of this law, it must be issued. At this point, I can only confirm that we are going under the current 137/2006 Act, where we compare, compare, and our reaction, which will come out tomorrow and which I am holding here, so tomorrow will be rephrased, and we will put a press conference on the one hand, and we will make it clear. [[shows written material]] This existing law, we all know what you voted on it, is stricter than the new law, which will be effective from October 2016. We are talking, for example, if I take a demonstration that is obvious, more work, there is only 30 percent even for the individual changes. So, of course, if there is an applicant somewhere, but not only an applicant, it is not only for European funds, anyone who will award a public contract will believe that there may be a question mark, whether it is in accordance with the guidelines, the Ministry of Regional Development will do an analysis on the basis of the request and we will recommend, of course, how to proceed. But at the moment and on the basis of the opinion that will come out tomorrow, we will alert the managing authorities and all the applicants there that we believe that these doubts, or those concerns, are not entirely justified, or the risk that it is indeed at a very low level, because the existing law, as it must be entered, is indeed harmonisation, according to the old directives, but it is. And the new guidelines were basically a little bit more benevolent. So the guarantee here on my part: the opinion will come out tomorrow, we will issue it. The national coordination authority shall then send it to all the managing authorities which are required to send it to all beneficiaries. We'll also put it in a monitoring system where everyone has access to see how to really enter. [[16.40 hours]] In any case, the MMR, not NOK, not the National Coordination Authority, but the Gestapo is prepared here to assess certain sections if this has to happen. There really is a risk. At the third reading, when the Senate returned the law to us, I warned here that we could, for example, get a so-called flat correction from the European Commission, which, of course, I cannot say now that we are not going to get it. It is indeed for further negotiations with the European Commission, which I really keep to my own level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u105	Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? In that case, this interpelation is over. Mr Valenta withdrew his intervention, so we will continue with Mr Korte's intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u106	Thank you. Dear Minister, good to see you. Following my oral questioning in January of this year, you have completed in writing the information on the outsourcing of the services of the Visa Centre in Minsk. I quote from your answer. "FREIGHT LINK's selection was also consulted with the competent authorities. Even in this case, it was not specified by the interested authorities that it would be a safety risk against applicants for Schengen visas or against the State should the cooperation with FREEIGHT LINK be initiated. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not receive a clear opinion at the time on the basis of which the termination of cooperation with the designated company could be considered.' End of quote. Minister, am I correctly informing from your answer that society has nothing, really nothing to do with Děripaska Deripaska? Do you know that Oligarch Děripaska Déripasek is the seventh richest Rus to base his position on four pillars? First, it is the political power of the Kremlin, which it is very close to. Secondly, it's too economic. Third, it's Russian intelligence and fourth, criminal underworld. Are you aware of these circumstances?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u107	Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u108	Yes. Good afternoon to you. I will comment on this case or on this case. In fact, we've been through this here in the House, so I can do some sort of balance sheet and what we've done at the Ministry. Just to begin with, for Members, I will remind them that it is the fact that we have outsourced the issue of visas in Belarus, that we have done this for reasons which are the same as elsewhere, namely that we are somehow outsourced, so it allows us to accept more applications for short-stay visas and at the same time to release the capacity of the consular section. So the reasons we've come to the outsourcing are the same as anywhere else in the case of Belarus. I would just like to remind you that such the operation of the Visa Centre is going on concessions and the choice of the service provider takes place under the concession law. And that's what's at the heart of what's essential in the assessment of the case. The concession procedure led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under which we entered into an outsourcing agreement with FREEIGHT LINK, or also Pony Express, took place transparently. That's the thing I checked. It was transparent in accordance with the concession law. Detailed information, including the procurement documents, including the evaluation criteria and the results of the proceedings, is all publicly available. The concessionaire for Belarus, the company FREEIGHT LINK, was chosen on the basis of the best offer of the main evaluation criteria, such as the speed of the start-up of the visa centre, the average waiting time of the applicant and the amount of the service fee. Transparency is also confirmed by the fact that individual territories have not been occupied by a single company and the exclusion of the company during the concession procedure is possible only on the basis of the reasons given by the law. That means we have to stick to the law in this procedure, we can't rule anyone out. It would be a violation of the law, and it would be discrimination. So when you're dealing with what our options are, I think it's a question of actually upholding a law where it's hard to do anything other than respect the very rules. The selection of FREEIGHT LINK was also consulted by the competent state authorities, as has been said here. Unfortunately, I can't say the details, I think you understand. But what was mentioned here by the Member was that the result did not confirm that it was something so serious that we would have to respond to it in this case and have some authority. I would like to say that, in the meantime, I have been able to find out what the role of FREEIGHT LINK in other countries is. I know that she has succeeded in a similar way to us in Slovakia, Latvia, Hungary and the United States of America, so there are many other countries that have given her this concession for a similar way of obtaining visas. And in the meantime, we were also looking into how the cooperation worked out. And where we've done it, they've confirmed everywhere that they've basically had a good experience with the company. So there was nothing to strengthen any suspicion. In the case of FREEIGHT LINK, the available information that we have put together does not confirm the presumption of possible personal data breach, as if it were tampered with the data of applicants for Schengen visas. The obligation arising from the concluded concession contract defines quite clearly what operators can afford. They (?) make clear how the applicants' personal data are handled. And there are even possible sanctions if there is any breach, including termination of cooperation, if someone breaks the rules and proves it. So this is pretty straightforward. In the case of this company, I repeat, we have found no case abroad that would warrant suspicion that they have any particular interest in manipulating it. And as I've dealt with it in my country, our workers have ruled out that there are risks we couldn't take care of. So I repeat, we're following the law. [[Attention on time.]] If we didn't comply with the law, it would be discrimination. And we can't break the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u109	Does the Member wish to speak?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u110	Minister, I didn't ask you about the transparency of the tender. I asked you if you could assure me to have a quiet sleep that Děripaska Deripaska really has nothing to do with the FREEIGHT LINK. You've already promised in that oral reply to investigate this matter. I'm not going to ask questions to which department you've assigned to your ministry, but I'm asking if you've asked the Office for Foreign Relations and Information whether FREEIGHT LINK has anything to do with Děripaska Déripaska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u111	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u112	Yes. I understand. However, I really cannot communicate the content of what I have received from the services. I can only assure you that what we have gained has not provided us with anything as fundamental, serious, or as a breach of what we are guided by so that we can take some non-standard steps accordingly. And that means, even if there was a similar connection, it's not in such a way that we could afford to discriminate against a company or disqualify it from the competition. I mean, like no other country did, we're in about the same situation. We just can't afford it, because the rules apply to everyone or nobody. And here what I've come to has given me no more arguments than the fact that we have to obey the law. And I repeat, I can't provide the detailed information here, unfortunately, but it wouldn't say anything more than that conclusion is what we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u113	Mr Holeček, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment, who is present, will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u114	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the addition of the Natura 2000 system of European protected territories. It is a locality of Porta Bohemica and Slavíkovy islands, where Czech obligations imply our obligation to protect European nature. I, as a Member elected for the Ústí Region, am in favour of entering both sites into the Natura 2000 list and I am also in favour of the construction of lakes in Děčín, so I do not understand the Government's procedure, which proposes Porta Bohemica in one opinion in the system and in another. I also do not understand why the Czech Government is waiting for the European Commission's position when it is clear that we need to register both locations. If we don't write them down, we can lose up to 7 billion of European subsidies. I also do not understand why the Czech Government has gone so far as to risk a fine from Brussels of up to CZK 54 million with a subsequent penalty of up to CZK 8.5 million a month when the sites are not included in the list. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u115	And the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u116	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. At this last meeting, the government has actually decided that from the two proposed locations of mine - I stress the repeatedly proposed locations - i.e. Porta Bohemica and Louky u Přelouče, it will complement one at this time with the fact that the second locality, i.e. Porta Bohemica, also after the approval of the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Waterways, after the long debate that was once again on the government, was decided, and I must say that I did not support the decision, probably logically, that the second locality will not be included. The reason why it will not be included was persistent and there are ongoing concerns that the inclusion of the Louka u Přelouče site in the proposed form would, in the opinion of the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate of Waterways, be a dramatic problem, at least a significant delay with the possibility of implementing the project plan, namely an artificial channel on the Elbe. I have a different opinion. I believe that, in both cases, the inclusion of sites, as they were designed, with the habitats and the geographical breakdown, would mean no significant conflict in the future implementation of those projects even after inclusion in the national list of European major sites. In one case, I managed to convince the government, in the other case, I didn't. The government as a collective body votes, votes on both of these options, and this is the result. Of course, as you said exactly, we will now inform the European Commission, which we are obliged to do, for what reason we have so decided, and the European Commission will consider the reasons and react in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u117	The Member does not wish to ask an additional question. In that case, Mr Beznoska has the floor, which will interpel Mrs Marksová, but she is excused for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After all, I will briefly read my question, which I had prepared for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Sometime last week. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs provided an exceptional non-investment subsidy of CZK 20 million, in accordance with the Government's resolution, the Fund for Children at Risk, in order to prevent kangaroo closure. This serious situation really required a solution, and I ask what measures have been taken by the Fund's management to prevent a similar, economically almost unsolvable situation from happening again. What measures have been taken to reduce its operating costs, and how the mechanism will address the debts created in the Fund in the past and what control mechanism, the new one, has been set up by the Ministry towards the Fund so that a similar difficult situation in the Fund cannot be repeated. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u119	Yes, the answer will arrive in writing. Mrs Hnyková also spoke to Minister Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u120	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon, everyone. Madam Secretary, on 2 May 2016, a meeting took place between the trade unions, the Prime Minister and other public sector remuneration ministers. In health care, as we hear from the media, there should be an increase of 10 percent from 1 January 2017. However, I am interested in other areas of the public sector, and this, above all, is the area of social services, where there should only be an increase of 5 percent. I just want to remind you that payback in social services is one of the worst. And I'm sure you know the salary level. Social services are greatly underappreciated and neglected, the legitimate claims of providers are viewed as draining money from the state budget and we hear it in every negotiation with them. I'm sure your ministry officials have told you how ruthless the situation is with employees in social services, after the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. There is a shortage of workers not only in the South Bohemia Region but also in the Zlín Region, and I find that salaries will be increased by only 5%. Social services have been underfunded for many years, the lack of professional staff for clients has deepened and are getting worse and worse accessible. At the same time, the demographic curve clearly shows that seniors will increase not only in residential facilities but also in the field. So I'm asking, Madam Secretary, do you think an increase of 5 percent in this area is sufficient? What steps will you take in this area in terms of remuneration for improving it, and how will you encourage employees to work in social services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u121	Thank you, too. Mr. GardenerZahradníček please. He's got an interview with the Minister of Finance, but he's also excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u122	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear absent Minister, colleagues, I wish everyone a pleasant and beautiful sunny afternoon. On 20 March 2014, I had an interview on you, Minister, on the flow of money to municipalities and other matters concerning the financing and accounting of municipalities. Since then, a lot of time has passed, and you have certainly come to know a number of new facts about how municipalities manage, what their structure is and how their accounting is actually taking place, which is very complex and is quite different from accounting for other business entities in our homeland. I believe he was accounting and so-called. reporting was supposed to be as simple as possible and very similar to each other. I mean businesses and municipalities. I see great problems in the future if nothing changes in the overall management of the smaller municipalities in particular. I believe, Minister of Finance, that for two years it has been a long time for you to learn about the overall management of municipalities, and for me it is time for me to ask you again in the form of an interview, what your ministry is preparing for changes in the accounts of municipalities, what you are preparing or doing to make the accounts of municipalities e.g. It simplified, brought its business sector closer to its structure. Or are you comfortable with the current situation? In your reply at the time, I was interested in some ideas that would have been appropriate to know the answers after two years. For example, you say that not all municipalities have accounts with the Czech National Bank, and I ask whether the situation has improved. You also say that the state, when it allocates money across the regions and municipalities, loses track of them. And you're saying that you're going to deal with the regions, and I'm asking if you've found a common solution. A separate chapter of your answer was the question of controlling subsidies. And this is my last question, where I ask whether the auditors not only control, but also focus on how to help better draw subsidies, fill out the application and warn the audited applicants where you can still ask for subsidies, as you said in your reply at the time. I thank the Members for their attention and you, Minister, for your written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u123	Mrs Rutová now has the floor, with an interview with Minister Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u124	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'd like to wish you a lovely sunny afternoon. And I would like to direct my intervention on behalf of Minister Šlechtová through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u125	You're clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u126	Can I go straight? I had no idea. So excuse my ignorance. Dear Minister, no examinations, education or special professional qualifications are required in the Czech Republic for the performance of the real estate agent's activities. Anyone can be a real estate broker. As a result, there are many real estate brokers in the real estate market whose morale in relation to their clients is, to put it mildly, debatable. That is why we are witnessing many trials with real estate brokers who have robbed their clients. Clearly, relying only on the real estate market itself to cope with dishonest brokers is not enough. You have promised that your office will prepare a law on real estate mediation that lays down clear rules, in particular strengthening the protection of real estate brokers' clients. I wanted to ask you to introduce us to how far you are with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u127	Thank you. And the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are already in a phase with this law when we sent it to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure which ends on 20 May, if I am not mistaken. We were redesigning a substantive purpose, where it really was at the Government's Legislative Council, because I attended it, a really very constructive debate about whether real estate intermediaries are supposed to have a free trade like this - because anyone can be a real estate agent, anyone who is eighteen has a clean record, can be a real estate agent - or tied. Then we agreed that I would interrupt this meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government, and we agreed as an MMR that we would also prepare RIA and all additional documents for the tied trade. This means that it will no longer be easy for someone to become a real estate agent and be able to do business in this matter. In addition to tightening not only from a free trade to a tied one, the other thing this law will bring is the professional qualifications of those persons who will do business, but at the same time who will only be employees of that real estate agency, office, broker, who will communicate with persons of course. Because each of us lives somewhere, everyone's been through some rents. I myself lost the only money I made many years ago because I didn't read a small note, and of course I just had to return the deposit, although there was some error. But that's what we're trying to stop. At the same time, we set surveillance and supervision by the state, i.e. The Ministry of Regional Development. He does not really control this area, except, of course, trade agencies. As much as MMR is involved, the supervision is not given to us by competence or by any law. My goal is to even implement the law. I don't want to introduce the law at all, because there's just no legislation here. In any case, the current situation is unsatisfactory. And here I would like to mention in the remaining time the creation of this law at all. We got into this by reaching out to the market first. We have approached the citizens of the Czech Republic to even answer the question of whether they believe that legislation is necessary in this area. Out of this came about 85 percent who wanted this law, the rest didn't know, someone didn't care. But at the same time, we approached the realtors to express themselves to us. And it was very interesting for us that over 70 percent of respondents, who were together about 3.5,000, responded to us that they wanted the legislation and that essentially - and I am quoting some of the results of the questionnaire inquiry - wanted to sort of make it clear between them. We are aware that it is precisely because everyone in this area can now do business, so of course we will not avoid complaints and such things. I myself, as the Ministry's Statute, receive a very large number of complaints about individual real estate agencies or real estate agents' activities. And that was one of the impulses when I would really like to bring this law to effect not only in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u129	Thank you, too. Madame, if she wishes to speak, she may. [[Mrs Rutová speaks off the microphone.]] On the microphone, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u130	I would just like to ask Madam Secretary: Will any education be prescribed for brokers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u131	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary can respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u132	Mr President, Madam President, yes. At this point, those who are in business or employed will have to prove years of practice to us. Graduates of schools who want to do business in this area, and we are introducing into this business the words of real estate intermediaries, will have to have legal economic education. And then the Ministry of Regional Development will be the one to issue certificates of competence. The details are really in the law. However, we have strict demands that a person be employed in this matter, but at the same time do business. And the aim of this law is also to protect consumers precisely so that they are not in the pliers of any unfair practices or excuses of the real estate agencies, because at this time there are about 14,000 entrepreneurs in this area officially registered according to statistics, but informally we have information that there are approximately 25,000 of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u133	Another intervention is the interpellation of Mr Petr Bendl to the Minister of Transport - he is here, excellent. [[The Minister is now entering the hall]] . So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u134	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, once again today the Czech Railways and the Škoda Transportation. You, Minister, are in the previous interpellation on the issue of a conflicting arbitration decision, when the Czech Railways have a commitment to pay Škoda Transportation an amount higher than 1 billion. CZK, he said that you commissioned Deputy Minister Feranc, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways. And I learned from the media that he was probably active and acted in the spirit of this, but not in the Ministry of Transport, but in a tennis club in Přerov, in the presence of the Chairman of the ANO and other ANO Members. So I want to ask if this is a standard negotiation on such billion-dollar commitments by the Czech Railways. Not when I heard the words of your personal criticism, where you claimed it was a scandalous decision, etc., and now your deputy will meet at the tennis club with representatives of Škoda Transportation's leadership and members of the ANO movement, and then, even though you say that it is a scandalous decision, hundreds of millions of dollars are paid. So I want to ask whether this is a normal procedure, whether it would not be more transparent for such negotiations, if they are, to be conducted in official places and not in places where my deep conviction does not belong. And that then, of course, logically leads to the fact that the Minister of Transport is not here to run the Ministry of Transport, but that he may be the chairman of the parliamentary club or other Members, you can't be surprised. [[Time warning]] So my question is whether it is standard and whether other Members, Mr Volný and Mr Faltýnek, have been charged with discussing this matter with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u135	Yes. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time this matter has been discussed today, but thank you for the question. I'd just like to recapitulate for a very short time. I think that the judgment of the arbitration court, or rather the ruling of the arbitration court, is scandalous that it should not have been. However, the Czech Railways are resisting this judgment by all forms that the legal order of this Republic allows it to do. We are even defending ourselves, as I have reported in the previous interpelation, as well as filing an application for notification and finding out whether the payment of this amount does not constitute unlawful public aid. About the meetings. Yes, I have commissioned Deputy Minister Feranc plus Chairman of Mr Krtek's Board of Directors to try and find a compromise solution with Škoda Transportations. I saw the compromise solution in that if the first amount, which was not only final but also enforceable, would be the last payment. Skoda Transportations disagreed with this alternative. There were at least a dozen meetings that took place, as I am informed. I didn't participate in any of them. The only thing I'm interested in about this incriminating meeting you're talking about is that Mr. Feranec was there, so from my point of view, there was a man who had my credentials. I don't want to speculate for myself and say what's standard, I haven't organized this negotiation, and I would never have organized it. On the other hand, I do not feel comfortable that you are intersecting Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Volný through me. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to ask them directly why they did it, let them answer you. My commission, I repeat, was given by Mr. Deputy Feranec and Mr. Chairman of the Board of Krtek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u137	The Member shall have the opportunity to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u138	Thank you for the answer. I think everyone who listened to her understood her very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u139	The Minister wants to use the right to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u140	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to emphasise one thing. I would like to clearly reject the connection with this meeting here and the fact that České dráhy eventually paid the amount. There's no connection. First of all, because there were many further negotiations between this meeting and payment. And I don't think it's entirely fair to connect these two things. If... Period. It's not entirely fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u141	That's how we exhausted this interpelation. Mr Ondráček wishes to interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the case of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, if time allows you to do this and you come to an interview, and now it's not a bad idea, I'm interviewing you quite regularly about Ukraine. It was the last time I gave you a White Paper on the genocide of the Ukrainian government on the inhabitants of Donbas at the end of my interview. You took over this file, so I assume you took a look at it, too. I wonder if you looked at it and how you liked the pictures there, because it clearly proves the situation that's there. And then in such a short time, if you could tell us what the situation is in Ukraine. And now we can take Ukraine to Kiev and Ukraine to the southeast - so what is the situation there now? How is the civil war going there and, if necessary, how is Ukraine's government stabilizing its economic and political situation, and how is the Ukrainian people doing? So these two questions, if you could please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u143	Yes, the Minister has the floor and the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u144	Yes, thank you. In that limited time, it's probably just a partial. Of course, I got the White Book from you, which I confirm. And I looked into it. I'd just tell you to understand me better, I've gotten a lot of similar types of books and movie records from various conflict participants in a number of years. I could tell you a whole series of conflicts from which the participants brought me a similar type of often quite terrifying pictures. And even in a number of cases, I get books coming from each side like any other fighting party. And you'll probably understand that I've worked up to a certain skepticism in seeing in those paintings that one side always brings, a more accurate picture of what's happening. To let you know that this is really common, something similar happened to me just yesterday, when I was given information from a conflict other than Ukraine from one party of the current conflict, and I also think that the information was not accurate. It's because they're military conflicts where they're dead and killed. And the interpretation of that one fighting party, which I think you understand, is regularly just one-sided, inaccurate, which always shows only one side of the thing. I have no doubt that in those conflicts that we often talk about, things happen horrible, horrible, often beyond the imagination of us who live here in an environment in which, of course, there is no war. I think that once he falls into a war in some environment, crimes are inevitable. And I think often on both sides. And it's hard to impose normal principles of civil law on them at all, because in these conflicts of war, any rules and any legal standards of normal life are completely lost. I'm afraid that's the same for Syria, Iraq. Unfortunately, this also applies to Ukraine to a certain extent. But it's true of other places I could name here. And as for the situation in Ukraine, that would be a long time. I will tell you this: Since the beginning of the fighting in 2014, more than 2,800 soldiers have fallen there. If you ask about the current situation, 88 people have been killed in the last three months. If you ask me about the last week, in the last week, I have accurate information that in the last week of April, three soldiers were killed and eight were injured. According to the information I have at my disposal, there are more to the Ukrainian side of the dead and wounded than there are to the separatist side. So the situation, even from what I'm saying, is visible, is not very good. This truce seems different than the losses you can assess for yourself. Eighty-eight killed in the last three months, that's a pretty high number. Why isn't the deal working, like, downloading heavy weapons? Why are the agreements of Minsk so difficult to implement? Basically, it's because there's no trust. There is no trust in compromise on both sides. Thus, this is the main obstacle to reaching a compromise - that there is a contradiction in how to look at the order of the individual actions to be carried out, the individual steps to be taken by each party. On each side, there is a different idea of the order of those steps, and the agreement is still hard to reach. That is why the implementation of the Minsk agreements is so difficult and that is why, even at this point, there is a difficult debate that does not seem to me right now to see some kind of light coming out. However, I do not think that it is so that this agreement cannot occur that it cannot be moved forward in the next two months. That's what I think is open. You know that a new government has taken office in Ukraine, the věrchovný Council has actually confirmed a new government that has gained confidence. It is led by a new parliament, actually former President of Parliament Volodymyr Hrojsman. I would like to estimate that the government does not seem to have the power to implement the scale of economic reforms it is associated with. However, it is said that it may have a stronger mandate to enforce precisely those steps relating to the Minsk agreements. That it could be more politically successful in the Council of Věrchovna precisely in achieving what are the steps that the Ukrainian party should take. I therefore argue that I do not find it entirely clear how the situation will develop in two months. And I don't think it's entirely impossible, thanks to the existence of that new government, that the situation might not have shifted. [[Attention on time.]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u145	But there will still be room, because the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u146	Absolutely. Thank you. Of course, I understand that you're getting these horrible images from both sides of the conflict, but there's always dead people in that picture. And I think that just that we have the peace here and we can work here, we should do everything we can to fulfill the Minsk agreements and the others. And if you're talking about the exact numbers, they're the exact numbers you're getting from the one side of the conflict. Maybe if you compared them to the other numbers, you'd find that the numbers might be inaccurate. But it's not about fighting here. If we're talking about a new government here, I think it should be a big task for it to meet the mine agreements right now, because poverty in Ukraine is killing millions of people. And I'd just ask. Did you, for example, register the statement of one of the members of the Ukrainian Parliament who said about the tragedy in Odessa of 2 May 2014 that the time would come and May 2 will celebrate as a state holiday, which will be written in golden letters in the modern history of Ukraine? [[Attention on time.]] These are the things that we could do here and also condemn, because these are the statements of fascists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u147	Thank you, too. Before the Minister arrives at the speaker's office, I will apologize to the Minister of the Environment, who apologizes from 5:00 p.m., so if someone was planning an interview with Minister Brabec, the answer will be in writing. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u148	I mean, like you said in your performance, I think I can sign it. I think, like you, that maybe just because we have a much more consolidated and peaceful situation here, so maybe we have a duty to try to help where there is violence to put an end to violence. I am convinced that I could give a number of examples where the Czech Republic, not only in Ukraine, but also in Syria and in other places, is trying to contribute to the end of violence, to end the atrocities that unfortunately we have the opportunity to see in similar shots as those you gave me last time. And I feel that it is one of the main tasks of this government and the State Department - to seek every means of preventing the slaughter of the civilian population, to prevent those conflicts that today are not just a threat to those people who live there, but today, as we well know, are actually threatening Europe indirectly. I agree, and I think this is our role, and that's our job. As for the contribution you mentioned, that was the Mosijčuk contribution, I believe from Facebook. I agree with you that what he says there is that May 2 is a date of great Ukrainian triumph and all that, of course, are not things that help because there was killed, I don't know if over 40 people. And I'm not only personally, but our entire policy is to investigate crimes, to investigate how more than 40 people were killed in Odessa, as well as killing people on Maidan. And that's our constant position. If crimes have become, in fact, almost a step towards fighting or further escalation of the struggles, we are all in favour of investigating the crimes. I personally turned to the competent authorities to take care of the tests and bring them to the end. [[Time warning]] So we don't have to convince ourselves of that either. But I don't think that the very nationalistically tuned contribution from the Facebook you're thinking about, I don't see much point in commenting on it, especially because the contributions are huge, and our role is primarily to help peace, to help end the violence. [[repeated time alerts]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u149	Thank you. Another or another interpelling is Mrs Šánová, but I do not see here, so the interpelation is failing. That is why Mr Bendl will speak, who will interpel Mrs Valachová, but she is excused, so also a written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam absent Minister of Education, I am sorry that you are not here because I feel that this is unfair on my part, but it is your decision that you are not present at the meeting by intercession, where the Prime Minister said today that ministers can make time, that they are only excused by foreign travel, meaning to Brussels, so far as I know it is not happening. To this interpelation I was provoked by your statement that the Union of Towns and Municipalities lies when it criticizes and quite factually from my point of view argues the fulfilment of needs, financial needs, as well as personnel needs, which will trigger the school law or the amendment to the school law. So I wanted to ask you, Madam Secretary, if you consider that you are not going to apologize for the lies of the Union of Cities and Cities because I think they were and are beyond the edges. This law will trigger and put enormous pressure on municipal budgets, causing huge problems for young people who put their children in kindergartens. From my own experience, I can say now that after the debate with the principal of our elementary school she has announced that she will have to actually have to take into account the number of children and that some children will have to go to kindergarten, to tell some people and their children from other municipalities that, given that she has to fill up the capacity of the children from the given community who set her up, children who have been going to our kindergarten for, like, two years now, will have to leave kindergarten, so people will have to look for a kindergarten somewhere else. That's one of the specific problems and I'd be able to name a lot more of them, but I don't have time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u151	Thank you, too. Mr Farský, please. The Minister of Health is not present, so the interpellation will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u152	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, last year I tried to prevent about 120 000 participants from having to go to doctors and ask for medical advice if they are healthy and have no problem being pursued. At that time, because it was in the course of the amendment of the law, it was appropriate for it to be adopted and this amendment to be amended, and at that time, it was March - it was 28 April 2015, sorry - the Minister promised that although it would not be resolved in this amendment, because it would delay the adoption of the regulation, but at the same time he commented that he thought that he would amend the modification, and to introduce, to replace this examination with pre-team preventive examinations, that it was a very good idea and that he claimed that the decree would be adjusted and that he would be able to do it within three months. Those three months escaped last July. I don't have any information about it being any different. This year, more than 100,000 children who go to the camps have to go through the unnecessary journey to the doctor and burden the doctor with papers, and their parents or legal representatives have to drag on an unnecessary journey. I wanted to ask you what course the change is in and when it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u153	Thank you. Mr Seďa will intersect Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the Government, as Minister responsible for Science and Research, you have recently expressed yourself in the sense that expenditure on science is being used inefficiently. At the same time, representatives of the Technological Agency complain that the government did not approve a single new project last year, which threatens the promotion of applied research. I am personally a great supporter of research and development, especially the applied one, not only because of the competitiveness of Czech producers, but also from the perspective of maintaining development and research capacities. Therefore, I would like to ask you how the submitted and proposed programmes of the Technology Agency are and what solution you personally propose. I know that the Agency's budget has been increased by more than CZK 100 million and nearly CZK 23 billion is earmarked for applied research by 2023. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether you consider this amount sufficient and possibly what specific measures in science and research you consider necessary to make effective use of the money for science. And in conclusion. There is allegedly an analysis of the state of Czech research which confirms that the support system is fragmented and that it lacks central management. That is why I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President of the Government, where I can find this analysis so that I can get to know it. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u155	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Kovářová, who is intersecting the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u156	Madam Secretary, allow me to address you with a question whose content I think quite reflects the name of this interpelation. I had previously contacted the Minister of Finance asking about the implementation of the subsidy programme to expand the capacity of primary schools in the vicinity of large cities, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies at the end of 2013. The Minister replied that as regards the continuation of this programme, from which I am of course very pleased as the proposer of this subsidy programme, the Ministry of Education will play a key role, which - and I quote now - should provide comprehensive information on the need to build new educational facilities, especially in the Prague East and Prague West Ring and the quantification of financial claims on the state budget. I would therefore like to ask about the idea of the Ministry of Education regarding the need for the capacity to be created and the financial entitlements to the state budget. Next, Madam Secretary, let me ask you one more question. More and more it turns out that this subsidy programme will not only have a transitory character, as I originally thought, and that its meaning is longer term. Wouldn't it be more reasonable under these circumstances to administer it directly by the Ministry of Education? I would consider it more systematic given the change in circumstances. What's your opinion? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u157	Thank you. I beg Mr Holeček, who will interpel the Minister of Finance. Mrs Hnyková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u158	Dear, but truly chronically absent, Minister, I'm interrogating you on the matter of the Tea čapí, which we've already had a bit of a fit, and I think that's a shame. It's a nice and strong subject. This is an explanation of how it is possible that ZZN Agro Pelhřimov at the time of its application for a 50-million-dollar subsidy was listed in Agrofert's accounts. I think I know the answer, but I want to be sure. Was it your kids at the holding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u159	Please, Mrs Hnyková. Then Mr. Sedya.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u160	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, the week before last we approved a small amendment to the Social Services Act, House Press 689. I tabled an amendment to return the care allowance before 2012, i.e. a change from the current ten actions to 36. The amendment failed. During the debate, I asked you, Madam Secretary, whether a change is being prepared because there are a number of disabled people in the field and they refer to the courts in administrative proceedings. I must say that you have not answered my question, and you have ignored the petition of the disabled, under which 11 373 people signed in three months. Many of your fellow Members fought for the disabled in 2012 in this Chamber of Deputies during the approval of the existing rules. Now they're just watching, and in this context they're silent. After getting to know the big amendment to the Social Services Act, I find that there will be no changes either. I therefore ask you again what you will do for the disabled in this matter. What changes do you prepare for your assessment? Or will you continue to heal them by reducing your care allowance? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u161	Thank you, too. Mr. Seďa down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies took place today on the issue of the EIA, if you want to evaluate the environmental impact of transport structures. According to published information, this problem affects around 100 buildings worth CZK 130 billion and is estimated to delay constructions by three years. I agree that you have inherited this problem from your predecessors because the basis of the problem dates back to 2006 and especially since 2009, when the transposition amendment to the EIA Act was adopted. According to the material from the Ministry of Environment managed to save the construction in the Zlín region as electrification of the line to Vizovice, lock chamber in Bělov or continuation of the construction of the express road R55, Babice - Staré Město or bypass Otrokovice. Since the government is preparing a list of priority buildings with the exception of the EIA, I want to ask whether some important buildings in the Zlín Region, such as the construction of the R49 or I/37 expressway, will be included in this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u163	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards constructions in the Zlín Region, I would like to confirm that the D49 Hulín-Fryšták communication is part of a list that should allow faster replacement of the EIA by decision of the government, and there should also be a D55 Otrokovice communication - bypassing. These are constructions that will have a shift. For other constructions, we continue to prepare. We're counting on the EIA to be repeated. It is also the road I/57 Semetín-Bystřička, if it was she you were talking about, I/35 Lešná-Palachov. I just want to stress one thing. Even for these buildings, which will run in a classic way of repeating the EIA, and since the extraordinary meeting ended before I had the chance to perform, I would like to make sure that this does not mean for any of these buildings that we would return to point zero, they started a search study. Basically, it should mean some parallel process where what's going on today, which means, according to 244, we're going to continue the zoning process or the building permit, so it's going to go on and we're going to repeat the EIA in an invariant solution in parallel, that is, in the current lead that it's in. This allows us to follow a directive from the European Union that says that the EIA may not be optional if it does not intersect any of the Natura 2000 protected areas or major European sites. I believe that, despite what has been said here in the morning about how long the EIA lasts, we have a method and we have an agreement that, in terms of access to administrative and administrative deadlines, we will do everything we can to make it happen, if we put together the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, or the Railway Infrastructure Administration, complete documentation to the Ministry that it should not take more than six months. So you have to imagine that the process will run parallel to each other. There are buildings where the delay will be short. There are buildings where it could be longer, because we're already in a longer phase and we're close to issuing a building permit, so there might be a bigger part to the extension. But I'd like to assure you that we're doing everything we can to ensure that all the buildings are in line, as they should, in realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u165	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u166	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. There's a kind of perspective on the future, which is good. I'm sorry, it's still in my experience, the expressway - it's already turned into the D49 and the D55. I really meant I/57, so thank you for fixing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u167	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u168	Dear Minister, during the April interpellations, I addressed the Prime Minister with the question of how to motivate the public to join blood donors, which are scarce, or to register for bone marrow donors, which, unfortunately, are also insufficient. At the end of his reply, the Prime Minister said that from the point of view of Czech health care, there was no shortage of medicinal products made from human blood that would threaten the functioning of our health care system. In my opinion, it would be too late to address this problem in a situation where the functioning of the healthcare system has already been threatened. And I guess the situation isn't quite pink right now. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to familiarize myself with detailed statistics on the number of blood donors. It is often said that there is not enough blood donors in our country, and unfortunately, this statistics, which I obtained at the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, confirm this. From 2013 to 2014, when the latest available data were available, the number of donors in absolute figures decreased significantly and, worse, the number of authors fell. That's wrong. I ask what the Department of Health is doing with this problem and will do. I think that even the Minister cannot satisfy the claim that a lack of medicinal products has not yet been recorded that would threaten the functioning of our healthcare system. What is important is an unfavorable tendency that we should do something about. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u169	Thank you. Mr Bendl, after him, Mr Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, last time I interviewed you, I greeted you in Tanzania and Botswana, I know where you spent your time instead of your duties in the Chamber of Deputies. Now I am waving you to Čína, as I have learned, because you have not attended the Chamber of Deputies meeting this week. Minister, you have a worse job attendance at the Chamber of Deputies than the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic has. You are almost at least participating in the meetings of the European Commission or the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union. You are not present in discussing the laws that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture present. Last time, even since you weren't here, the Chamber of Deputies ended because there was hardly any of the ministers who were supposed to submit their laws as such. So I would like to ask you, Minister, seriously, if you do not want to give up the position of minister and you do not want to give it to someone who will be more active, who will be more involved in the work of the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Agriculture, it will communicate more with both the coalition and the opposition, because it would certainly contribute to the work of the Chamber of Deputies, the agricultural public and perhaps you, too, because obviously you are not just enjoying it, but you are not attracted to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u171	Thank you. Please, Mr Seďa, who will intersect the Minister of Justice, who is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for coming. I'm going back to my interview on February 11th of this year when I asked about the future of the former Hungarian prison because I couldn't respond to some of your information. First of all, it is not true that the justice system does not need a former prison building, at least from my information, and that the investment is to reach one billion and that the District Court building in Uherské Hradiště corresponds to its needs. According to my information, it is the district court that seeks to reconstruct this property due to insufficient capacity, security measures and lack of meeting rooms. Even this reconstruction was included in the Ministry of Justice's investment plan, as I mentioned in the last interview. So I want to ask you, Minister, why has such a turnaround occurred in the priorities of the resort and whether you personally have been looking at both the premises of the district court and the memory of the city monument zone, i.e. the properties of the former prison. And since you said that no one wanted the building and that you were going to offer it to transfer it to the State Representation Office in property matters, I wanted to ask how far that plan is on the matter. I would prefer that you reconsider your intention to support the reconstruction of the former prison for the needs of the district court, the prosecutor's office, the mediation and probation services. There was even talk of moving the financial office and building a small museum that would resemble the victims of both totalitarians from the 20th century. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u173	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u174	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. I have to say, I haven't looked in that building yet. We have a lot of over 100 courthouses, and although - according to many judges' statements in many courts where I have been, I was still the first minister to visit, so I haven't had time for them all, and I'm sure I'll be happy to go to that place sometime soon. However, I am familiar with the written documents and reports of my subordinates who were there and dealt with the matter with due care, including directly my economic deputy, who also participated there at the scene of the last meeting on this matter. I often find that when I visit the individual buildings of the District Courts, it is probably a mistake that the District Court chairmen do not visit each other, because then they might find that their problems are not quite real problems. For example, in a given court, there is one courtroom for two judges, i.e. that everyone can hold a meeting of 2,5 days a week. Unfortunately, we have district and, unfortunately, regional courts, where one judge has a hearing room once a week. That means the situation here is two to three times better. Also in other indicators, such as the floor area of a judge in terms of offices, or in the case of a court official, this district court is one of the best-cased. So I don't want to say that they're in some perfect premises, but they're definitely on top of our priorities down a lot, because we just have other district courts and unfortunately, as I say, regional courts, and unfortunately, even the Supreme Court, which are worse off in order. So that's why we re-evaluated it a long time ago - sometime in 2013 I think the President was informed by letter of this re-evaluation and the situation. That doesn't mean we're not gonna do anything at the county courthouse, but the version of the reconstruction of the former prison is disproportionately expensive. If you multiply that load by the number of buildings we have, then we would probably use a whole state budget to make it a rough estimate to satisfy everyone like that. [[17.50 hours]] For this reason, I say and repeat that the best thing is for justice to release the object as soon as possible to be used, meaningfully used either by other state authorities or by someone quite different, e.g. for participating in a city that, as far as I know, is interested in something like this. Regrettably, to do so, it is necessary for the President himself to sign a paper stating that it is so-called. useless property, and she refuses to do it for reasons incomprehensible to me. The only thing that's hanging on to this thing is her signature. I hope he doesn't hang for long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u175	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u176	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. They didn't make me happy. I understand that there are district courts that are even worse off, but as a... transfer, let's say, to the State Representation Office in property matters, it will mean, and since I know that no state institutions are interested in the building precisely because of the cost of reconstruction, regardless of the fact that it is a monument building, then maybe the transfer would be. The city begins to think again after x years of free transfer, but that would again be a Danish gift. We've already talked about this because I'm a city representative, several times, and I say, if there's any meaningful use, yes. My question is one more. In your reply on 11 February, you said that the main purpose of the reconstruction was to build a museum, that it was the Ministry of Culture's task. I guess so. However, we know what kind of budget the Ministry of Culture has, and at the moment it doesn't even have enough to raise salaries. [[Time.]] So I'm sure it's the only thing we have to agree with each other and convince the Minister of Finance a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u177	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u178	I'd like to put in a good word with the Minister of Finance. I'm aware that the Finance Minister is going to take a look at the place himself, and maybe he'll convince him himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u179	As Mrs Kovářová withdrew her interpellation, Mr Bendl's interpellation will be the last one today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I deliberately wrote "violent pre-emptive law" in the name of interpelation, because I consider it from the state. If Minister Brabec proposes, in the draft law on nature protection and landscape, that in national parks, nature reserves, natural monuments and cave-related grounds, they should give to people who have land there, land, property, state seals on the land register so that they can no longer dispose of their property and are obliged, if they wish to sell it to anyone, to sell it to the State. That's something that I think we're going back to 1989 and that shouldn't even be discovered in our legislation. It should become a deal with these people. But giving them fillings on their property, I consider it something I would not expect from this government, and the less so from the ANO movement at all. I want to at least ask Minister Brabec, Minister of the Environment, if he knows how many natural and legal persons such a seal will apply in the event of the adoption of the Nature and Landscape Act. I ask for these numbers, if possible, if they even know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-044-11-002-231.u181	Like I said, this was the last interpellation. In that case, I will conclude today's meeting and interrupt our negotiations by 9 a.m. tomorrow, when we will meet again here. Thank you and have a good evening.
