ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u1	230. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first is an interpelation to the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec, who responded to the interpellation of a member of Zdeněk Ondráček on the equipment of police officers SPJ of the capital city of Prague. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing of 741. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I am opening the debate and I am asking Mr Interpelling to propose a solution, because the Minister is excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u2	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you're the only one here for the government. The Interpelling Member is present, the majority of the KSČM club is present, so we could vote on the proposal, although I see that the quorum is not sufficient due to the absence of the Minister. I will ask, as I did last time, for the interruption of this interpelation and the second interpellation that will follow, to his presence. So I'm asking for a hearing adjourned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u3	I'm sure I'm registering your request, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u4	She's already broken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u5	It is interrupted, but until the Minister's presence, however, we will not vote on it, we will delay it until the Minister's presence. I think the same case... It's okay, it's so... So at this point, I take back the debate, I conclude and this point is interrupted in the presence of the Minister. Thank you... [[Mr Ondráček also draws attention to his second interpelation.]] Even your second interpelation is the same thing. [[Mr. Ondráček thanks you.]] Then there is the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the case of the staffing of supervisory councils of state enterprises. Interpelation is presented together with the reply as press 766 and it was interrupted into the presence of Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. He's not here. So I'm also putting this interpelation off. We will proceed to another interpelation and this is an interpelation to the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on tax collection. Interpelation is presented together with a reply as press 775 and also here, according to the minutes, a hearing has been suspended in the presence of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, who is also excused from today's meeting. Therefore, I also postpone this interpelation to the presence of the Minister. We will now proceed to the next point, and this is an interview with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who responded to Mr Daniel Korte's interpellation on the work of China CEFC Energy Company and its Czech subsidiary in the Czech Republic. Interpelation together with the response shall be submitted as printing of 778. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. It is present, so I am opening up a debate in which, with priority right, I will ask for the floor of Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u6	Good morning. Well, first of all, I want to thank the Prime Minister for being here. And I also know from the statistics on the interview, whether written or oral, to the Prime Minister, that he has a very good attendance. On the other hand, Prime Minister, if you look right and left, you must feel like that famous stake in the fence. We have a second week of proper meeting and I cannot discuss, and together with me the entire Chamber of Deputies, my interpelation, because ministers simply do not bother to go to interpelations. Well, I don't know when we'll discuss it. Here I always hear rumors about how the opposition is holding something back, but ministers do not do their basic tasks and duties in the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps next time, Madam Vice-President, it would be good if you read the list of those present. It'll be a lot faster than a list of apologized government members. And I'd like the legislation to clear up our parole by next time. I have to run here at nine o'clock, and if I wasn't here, there'd be an interpellation under the Rules of Procedure. But at the same time, the interpelation is interrupted into the presence of the minister. Well, I'd like to know what happens if I weren't present at the same time and the minister wasn't present, and the interpellation is then interrupted into his presence. Will it fail or will it fail? I don't need to know right now, I'd like to have a written opinion to make it clear. And I'm asking the Prime Minister to arrange for order in his government. The interceptions, if I'm not mistaken, there were eight or nine at this meeting, last time there was one or two discussed, today there will also be about one or two. It's not normal to not discuss such a small number of interventions in two Thursdays. Not because it would take a long debate on a specific text, on a specific House document, but because ministers simply do not bother to come here. Prime Minister, I strongly urge you to set order. And thank you again personally for being here. But the result is ruthless. If it's an interpellation to the Prime Minister, I understand you're here alone. But they're written interpelations, and your colleagues from the government didn't bother to come last Thursday in my case, but even in the case of the first two interpelations, even this Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u7	Thank you and I am now asking for Mr Korte's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Prime Minister, I asked you 16 specific questions in my interview. I'm saying you didn't answer any of those questions. Quite alibistically, you're making excuses for others to do the same. My questions were all about one topic, this is a specific security risk for the Czech Republic, which stems from the expansion of CEFC to the Czech Republic and from the people around this company. You assure me that you do not have any specific information from the security services that would confirm such a danger, and that if you did, you would act. And on the other hand, you're saying that you can't tell me more from the nature of the matter. You can't, I can. So please listen, listen carefully, it's gonna be longer. In order to understand the interrelationship, relationships and ties between people and institutions, we must start in a relatively ancient past. The reaction to the cleansing of the communists organized by Čankajšek and his allies was the retreat of the Chinese Communist Party to Nanch Chang, where they called the Nan-Chang uprising in early August 1927. This event is crucial not only from the objective point of view of China's Communist Party's history, but, in particular, from the Communist Party's controlled interpretation of the history of its party and party ideology. However quickly this uprising ended with the overwhelming defeat of the Communists by the National Army led by Čankajšek, during which it was on 1. 8. 1927 founded its own official regular army of the Communist Party of China, briefly called the so-called Red Army. It is with regard to the fact that the Red Army was founded during the Nan-Chang uprising that this rebellion is perceived as an iconic event for the Communist Party of China as part of the official party history interpretation. In shaping it and defining its relationship with the Communist Party of China, the Red Army of the Russian /Soviet/ Bolsheviks and its relationship with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union represented the pattern. The above mentioned uprising led and founding the Red Army, renamed China's People's Liberation Army in 1946, in particular the following leading officials of the then Communist Party of China, who subsequently appeared after 1949 for decades in the highest party, state and military functions of the People's Republic of China. Among the roughly ten founders was Jie Jian-jing - please remember this name: Ťian Jian-jing - in 1955 appointed for merit in the fights for the civil and Japanese-Chinese wars by a lifetime marshal. Jing Jianjing is the founder of the Communist dynasty of Jie, whose members have worked and operate in various positions in party, army and intelligence structures of communist China. Now let's talk about generations of Chinese rulers. As part of the official discourse applied by the leadership of the Communist Party of China, the classification of the party and state leadership of China is introduced according to generations of leaders. In order to understand the issue, a few words need to be said. From 1949 until now, six generations of leaders took over the leadership of the Communist Party of China and the People's Republic of China. The first three are important. The first generation of party and state leaders were founders of the party from the 20th century, who in the leading party and military positions went through the fight of the civil war and the Japanese-Chinese war and decisively participated in the gradual control of power in China by the Communist Party of China. Among the members of the first generation of leadership of the People's Republic of China since its founding in 1949 until the end of tung Ce in 1976 in particular mentioned Mao Tung, Čou lai, Čchi, then Liou Ša, Peng Lin, Peng Dehuai, Piao Piao. Other party veterans, such as later Secretary General of the Chinese Communist Party Hua Feng, are always very loyal to Mao tung, or Čong Jong-Sun, the father of today's current leader of the People's Republic of Chua Ťin Pching, and some of the ten marshals of the Chinese People's Liberation Army, including Ji Ťian-Jingo. The second generation of leadership after the death of members of the 1976 Triumvirate was also made up of prominent founders of the Communist Party of China and veterans of the civil war and the Japanese-China War, but most of which were a few years younger, a half-generation circus than members of the generation of the first leadership. So it was basically their peers with the same share of building, forming the Communist Party of China as can be attached to the first generation. Also, the second generation of leadership began its political and military career on the Kuomintang platform and in the ranks of the national army, and only in 1927 it finally turned to the Communist Party of China. The second generation of the People's Republic of China, operating from 1976 to 1992, is the first place of the so-called eight elders, or eight immortals, which were mainly Teng Siaopching, Chen Yun, Li SienNien, Peng Čen and Po Jipo. [[9.20 hours]] All of them were members of the Executive Committee of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and continued to serve as President of the People's Republic of China, Chairman of the Central Military Commission of the ÚV of China, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Chinese People's Assembly, etc. The second generation leaders include Hu Pang and Ťian Jian-Jing and others. It was the members of the second generation of the leadership of the People's Republic of China, in particular Jing Ťiang and Po Jipo, that were the main promoters and founders of the doctrine of nepotism and cronyism, i.e. the ideas that the highest positions in the party, state, army, state institutions and state-owned or influenced business companies should fluently pass on to their descendants, other family members and their families related persons as privileged by their origin derived from prominent veterans and senior leaders of the Communist Party of China and the People's Liberation Army. The appointed were convinced that the best way to maintain the absolute power of the Communist Party of China and the military in the state and their dominant influence in the Chinese economy was to ensure the family continuity of the Chinese party military elite in the leadership of all major forces of power and economy of the People's Republic of China through further and further generations of prominent party families. In accordance with this doctrine, the members of the first and second generation of the leadership of the People's Republic of China were basically founders of powerful dynastic clans whose descendants control the People's Republic of China until now. The third generation of leadership joined the highest party, military, state and economic functions in the state around 1992, until then the vast majority of members of the first and second generation of leadership died, and dominated China until 2002 to 2003. While members of the first and second generations accumulated both political and military functions, the third generation divided them. And at this point, Prime Minister, it is also useful to keep in mind at least a very basic overview of the structure of the power of the People's Republic of China. The Communist Party of China stands in the highest position in the hierarchy of power. According to its statutes, the highest authority of the convention is purely formal. Among the conventions is the highest effective executive body of the Communist Party of China's Central Committee, which has about 300 members, whose diverse unions and departments run absolutely everything in China. The Central Committee elects the Secretary-General of the Central Committee, members of the Central Military Commission, Politbyra, which is about 25 members, members of the Political Executive Committee, which is about five to nine members, seven members at this time, members of the Central National Security Commission and other bodies. This shows that at the top of the party power pyramid there are two organs - Politbyro and his Executive Committee. In the hands of these two institutions, together with the Central Military Commission, all power in the state is effectively concentrated. All major decisions are taken in the narrow circle of the members of these two party bodies, with the most important agendas, that is in foreign and military policy, on macroeconomic issues, first discussed and often directly decided in an incredibly narrow circle of the political committee members, that is the seven persons. In the hands of these seven individuals, all power is really concentrated. The Executive Committee of Politbyra is China's highest collective leadership, in which all seven members have the same power of voice, but the Secretary-General is considered to be the leader and the one among the other six so-called. Primus inter pares. According to the Constitution, the Secretary-General also holds the post of Chairman of the Central Military Commission. From that title, he is the chief commander of the Chinese People's Liberation Army. He is the President of the People's Republic of China. In the hands of the Secretary-General, the power of such a scale is so concentrated that it seems to have no equivalent in the world. Thanks to the quite exceptional position of the army, which has long been cultivated by China's official doctrine with reference to its historical role, it has a quite extraordinary position in the state's power apparatus of the Central Military Commission, headed by the Secretary-General, as said. Often, the Central Military Commission is even aligned with the Political Executive Committee by its influence. The position of the Central Military Commission is even so strong that the highest leadership of the military and its The General Staff first responds to the Central Military Commission and not to the Ministry of Defence. Indeed, the Central Military Commission also leads China's military intelligence service, particularly ideologically. Let us now look at the structure of the army. It is headed by the General Staff, which consists of four main sections. First of all, the General Staff Department, which organises and operates the operation of the General Staff itself. It is therefore a sort of general staff in the narrowest sense. Secondly, it is the Department of General Logistics, the General Political Department and the Fourth Department of General Armament. Under that first branch of the General Staff, two intelligence services are organised within and on the basis of the military. It's mostly so called. the second department, which functions as a military-political intelligence service, and the third department. The second department, the intelligence service, has the competence to collect and process military, political, scientific and technological information, in particular with an accent on their use for military purposes of the People's Republic of China. Under the second department it is established and operates - I drew it from English-written sources, so I will say it in English - Institute for International Strategic Studies, Institute for International Strategic Studies, which also performs intelligence tasks, and Institute of International Relations, the Institute for International Relations, which was established according to the model of Moscow's MGIMO and also performs the function of an institution ensuring the preparation of future reporting bodies of the People's Republic of China. Under the General Political Department of the General Staff is then established so called. The intelligence liaison department, also known as the International Liaison Department, Liaison Office, International Liaison Department, will continue to quote it as the Liaison Department. The organisational integration of the liaison department itself into the political department as a branch, which focuses on the political-ideological work defined by the Central Military Commission and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, suggests that the main subject of the agenda of the liaison department is ideological diversity and the provision of influence activities. The liaison department. In response to the opening of the open civil war between Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China- Čou lai, the second most influential member of the founding generation of the Communist Party of China in 1927, laid the foundations of the intelligence service. Under his leadership, Ťian Jian-Jing participated in its construction as the second party official. In connection with the establishment of their own secret service, they were both inspired by the Soviet Moscow Kominterna. The reason for this is that they both stayed in the study stay in the Soviet Union, which was organized by the Comintern, and during the 1920s and 1930s they were in close contact with this organization, respectively. they took instructions from their so-called political commissioners sent as resident agents to China. [[9.30 hours]] The intelligence service directly directed by the Chinese Communist Party was originally under the appropriate name of the Labor Department against the Enemy. As early as the 1930s, it had an extensive network of agents all over China. She focused mainly on ideological diversity against the enemy, which was Kuomintang at that time, on the commission of politically motivated assassinations against the political opponents of the Communist Party, on the collection of intelligence information, penetration into the military and political structures of Kuomintang, etc. China's intelligence service - and here we come to a significant point - was in its beginnings, i.e. at a time when the Communist Party was not in control of official state power structures, faced a chronic lack of funds to secure its operational activities. Čou lai and Jing Jianjing decided to solve this problem by setting up a number of companies all over China between 1939 and 1943 that were secretly managed by a separate intelligence service, possibly. directly by the military or the Communist Party, and their business served to finance the activities of this intelligence service and the military. The business picture of these companies was considerable. They dealt with trade in various commodities, operated oil refineries and factories for the production of industrial materials, silk and substances from other materials, pharmaceutical products, dealt with trade and speculation in foreign currencies, especially dollars, gold and diamonds, even by growing, processing and distributing drugs, especially opium. They preferred business in this area for two reasons. First, for purely financial reasons, because the sector brought great returns to the intelligence service, and secondly, for ideologically diverse reasons, because they believed that the mass spread of opium among opponents would cause drug addiction and would have a consequent destabilisation effect. Here, Prime Minister, a basic system of companies directly linked to the military and intelligence service was laid to ensure the financing of their needs. And this system has been massively developed after 1949 and continues in completely new qualitative and quantitative dimensions to date. The intelligence activity of the department against the internal enemy was focused mainly on all possible activities associated with ideological diversion against the enemy, defined by the official doctrine of the Communist Party, both internal and external. In 1955, this institution was transformed into the Liaison Union, as I mentioned, and the mission of the Liaison Department was defined in a basic way by the fact that it is a intelligence service for a political-ideological struggle. This intelligence service is directly accountable to the Central Military Commission, the chairman of which is the Secretary-General - so enthusiasticly accepted in the Czech Republic - and which is linked through some of its other members to the Executive Committee of Politbyra as the supreme power centre. The liaison department operates under a code name, which, however, is publicly known. It's the China Association for International Friendly Contacts, CAIFC, or the Chinese Association for International Friendly Relations. That's a funny name. The CAIFC is basically one of the resident agency organizations through which the Liaison Union operates. Closely connected to it, Prime Minister, is China CEFC Energy Company, which we will get to below. The liaison department, alias CAIFC, is responsible for carrying out systematic espionage in foreign countries and, as part of its intelligence activity, aims in particular at political, military, economic and intellectual elites from countries which, according to the official Chinese foreign policy and military doctrines, are considered hostile states, which, by the way, Prime Minister, are all countries of the European Union and countries associated with NATO. The method of penetration into the aforementioned categories of elite enemy countries is the Liaison Department trying to get to their side, respectively. for the promotion of the interests of the People's Republic of China. It is clear, therefore, that, in addition to classical intelligence, the Liaison Department also focuses on the implementation of ideological and political diversity in hostile countries, especially with emphasis on the local power elites, e.g. also for defectors from Chinese intelligence services and Chinese emigration living in hostile states. In addition to the above, the Liaison Union is also responsible for overseeing Chinese intelligence agents abroad, which is somehow superior to China's other intelligence services, as well as to the political upbringing, indoctrination and discipline of the military with its internal prison system. The liaison department therefore represents a intelligence service with a greater scope of activity and greater force than the classic intelligence services of democratic states. Until 1998 he was head of the Contact Department as its director Jie Suan-Jing in the rank of Major General of the Army, son of us well known Ťian Jian-jing and father Ťien Minga, who served as Vice-President or Deputy Secretary-General of the CAIFC between 2003 and 2005, has since 2006 been the Chairman of the Management Board of the CEFC. Jie Suan-Jing was behind the massive development of a military industrial complex directly controlled by the military and its intelligence services, which served to finance the activities and development of power forces. In this area, he basically followed up on his father, Ji Ťian-Jingo, who was one of the two architects of the idea of an autonomous complex of companies managed directly by the army. He thus significantly developed the concept of a separate source of financing for the People's Army in parallel with state budget funding. With the development of the military military industrial complex, the economic-power position of the army and the garniture of its general leadership has been substantially strengthened and this privileged position within the Chinese economy has further shifted the army and its leadership into state status in the state. The complex corporate complex around the army and its intelligence services has thus become a source of impenetrable corruption that flourish at all levels of the Chinese party-oligarchic system. Jie Suan-Jing himself stood for a number of years when he was the head of the Uniting Department, at the same time as its president, the Carrie Group, one of the two main trading companies in the People's Republic of China under the arms trade. Financial services and real estate were also the subject of its activities. Jie Suan-Jing, who was re-established in Hong Kong prior to his transfer back to the People's Republic of China in 1997 and then managed the news activities of the Contact Department, also developed a money laundering mechanism that was generated from the economic activity of companies linked to the People's Army through casinos in Macau. Jie Suan-Jing is also considered the spiritual father of the Crown Princess faction within the Chinese Communist Party, where he followed the doctrine of nepotism and cronyism created by his father Ťian Jian-Jing and other prominents of the second generation of leaders. Jie Suan-Jing has also advocated that the Liaison Union should take action to influence foreign and defence policy. enemy states, among which I have already mentioned, are NATO states and the European Union according to China's official doctrine. [[9.40 hours]] He developed the theory that the ideal basis for the diverse strategic activities of the Contact Department is also to create two parallel perceptions of the People's Republic of China, which, however, are essentially contradictive. Firstly, the People's Republic of China is a friendly and welcoming country on the one hand, and secondly, the People's Republic of China is powerful and indispensable to the country of the opponent, and therefore must be subject to it fully. On the other hand. The factions of Crown Princes I mentioned make up descendants and other family members of the most prominent representatives primarily the first, second and third generations of China's leadership. As I have already said, they are in line with the principle of ensuring succession and power continuity and hegemony when controlling the most key positions within the Communist Party of China, the State and the army are destined to insert into the highest functions in the apparatus, in the institutions and bodies of the state, in all branches of the army, social organizations linked to the state, the standings of educational, sports and scientific institutions, as well as in state-controlled corporations. Thanks to its origin and association with founders and veterans, the Communist Party of China uses increased prestige and until recently almost untouchability. Even the fractions of Crown Princes are differentiated internally depending on how significant the party prominent is related to the offspring. Those who are descendants or relatives of first and second generation leaders are typically called so-called. Red nobility. The Crown Princes join together and create power handles within their layers, with the most influential concentrating on economically important centers. Thus, there is and is, for example, a click from Shanghai, Beijing or Chungqing. For example, the current leader of the People's Republic of China pching Ťin or Chairman of China CEFC Energy Company Ming Jienming is included in the handle from Shanghai. The members of the Crown Princes Group are ensured by a rapid procedure within the Party's hierarchy of Chinese Communist Party, with members who do not come from old party families who, for example, have been active in the Party for much longer or have a higher education. It operates not only in the apparatus, but also in party companies, state firms, and thanks to its clientelistic ties to the highest levels of state power, it accumulates considerable personal assets, the value of which is often in billions of dollars. Most of the time, of course, these are income from bribes. Given their exclusive ties and privileged state access to them, they receive gigantic government contracts for their private companies. In their functions, they acquire virtually unlimited powers. Among the well-known examples of members of the Crown Princess faction are those of both the Jie and pching Ťin clan, the current president and leader of the People's Republic of China, who is the son of Čong Jong-Sun, who belonged to the narrowest group of Communist China's leaders and the first generation of Chinese leadership. He participated in the civil war with Kuomintang, the Japanese-Chinese war, led the propaganda department etc. etc. He was also a prominent member of Po Lai, known for the recent worldwide judicial case, where he was sentenced to life imprisonment under the monster trial for corruption and abuse of authority. Although it was officially a campaign against corruption initiated by the current president pching Ťin, in fact, was the President's disposal of his main intra-party competitor, who had the audacity of aspiring to the position of Secretary General of the Communist Party of China. Now, please, to the Jie Dynasty. As mentioned earlier, Ťian Jing was the founder of the power party clan. This Jie has been the Deputy Secretary-General of the CAIFC and since 2006 has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of China CEFC Energy Company. About the Jie clan has been said enough, it remains to be said that between the Jie clan and the clan of the current Chinese president There are long-term very warm relationships characterized by mutual support. The beginning of these relations dates back to the time of the founders of Ji Jian-Jingo and Čong Jong-Sun, who both, as prominent veterans of the Chinese Communist Party, have maintained close relations since the 1920s. These traditional family ties, together with the fact that the Liaison Union or the CAIFC, which is also managed by the CEFC, are directly accountable to the Central Military Commission headed by Si Jinping, and this explains why, for example, the President allows - Ming to participate in the adoption of foreign politicians in the head of state, for example, in the presence of President Zeman, which is out of the question for others. China CEFC Energy Company was originally established in 1980. It operates, especially within China, also under the company Huaxin or China CEFC Huaxin Energy Company. It gradually developed into a holding structure which includes a number of companies engaged in the extraction and trading of raw materials for energy production, storage and transport of these raw materials, logistics, real estate, financial services and other sectors. Holding includes both companies operating in the People's Republic of China and those established abroad. In 2013, CEFC Huaxin showed a turnover of 33,4 billion. dollars. In 2006, he headed the holding conglomerate of these companies- ming Jienming. He took the position of Chairman of the Board when he was 36 years old. Here, please note that the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors of this conglomerate is not exactly the same as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of our companies that we know. It emphasizes the word of the President, which refers directly to the Grand President of the founder of Mao tung. Ming Jianming is registered as the founder of the holding. In this context, it is noteworthy that the alleged owner and founder of the business colossus became basically overnight in 2005, i.e. just before it was reported as the owner and founder of China CEFC Huaxin Energy Company, he held the position of Secretary General of the CAIFC, i.e., as has been said, of a cover organization for the Liaison Department. China CEFC Huaxin Energy Company purposely establishes its subsidiaries in foreign countries, which according to Western intelligence services have at least three functions. Firstly, it serves for business activities, including acquisitions of companies in the given territory, the proceeds from whose business activities are intended to ensure the financing of the activities of the Unite Division intelligence service in the long term. Secondly, they themselves are an entity through which immediate funding is ensured for the intelligence operations carried out by the liaison department in a given foreign country or territory through the aforementioned subsidiaries of China CEFC and other related entities. And thirdly, they serve to cover political warfare, political espionage, and ideal diversions in foreign states. This applies, Prime Minister, of course, to a subsidiary of CEFC established in the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] These companies establish other and other companies with completely opaque structures with different dubious names and discuss and germinate the connections would take quite a long time. I don't want to get you involved, because you wouldn't understand at first sight. But just from the structure described above, it's obvious what's going on. It is not entirely funny how it is evident that the real and main activity of China CEFC Huaxin Energy Company is quite something other than a fake business investment. As I said, the company only carries out the business to raise funds to ensure the activities of the military and its intelligence services and, secondly, to cover intelligence operations. It is clear from the structure described above that, first of all, the structure is deliberately designed as inconspicuous and complex as possible, secondly, that business entities and non-profit and non-governmental organisations are supposed to intersect it, and thirdly, the board of officials reported as statutory bodies in charge of commercial corporations or their members also hold positions in the above-mentioned agencies serving to cover the activities of the liaison department, in addition, they have very often high military rank. So, Prime Minister, you didn't know all this? You don't know who you're dealing with? [[A commotion in the hall.]] You don't know that the CEFC that operates here is basically a gangster organization that is a front for intelligence intelligence against the enemy? And I stress - according to the official doctrine of the People's Republic of China, all countries of the European Union and NATO are the enemy. Didn't your intelligence tell you that? Or did you know, and yet you're not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u9	Thank you and please the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u10	Thank you. Good morning, honourable Members. I will not respond as comprehensively as my previous speaker has. Mr Korte approached me with his written interview. I tried to answer his questions honestly. It is, of course, his right to express his political opinion and to express his opposition to my response, and ultimately he will decide by his vote the Chamber of Deputies. We have heard here a rather extensive excursion into the history of the People's Republic of China in the last about seven decades following the business activities of some business groups there. China is today the world's second largest economy. It is a country integrated into the international community as a permanent member of the UN Security Council. It is a country that maintains diplomatic relations with the vast majority of recognized states, including long-term diplomatic relations with the Czech Republic. And undoubtedly, Mr Korte's speech could be useful, even if he gave it in Parliament to the German, French, British or possibly to the United States Congress, because even these countries have very intense relations with China. And to be honest, in the past 25 years, these relationships have been a lot more intense than those that develop between the Czech Republic and the People's Republic of China. That's the first point. Second point. If Mr Korte has directed his questions towards information relating to intelligence reports, I think that Mr Korte is a qualified and experienced person and knows that I simply cannot take these reports here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and I cannot quote them in such a way as to respond to Mr Korte's questions. I simply cannot, and I would, of course, be immediately accused of violating the laws and not respecting the relevant regime in which these reports were provided. However, I want to assure all Members that I am familiar with the reports I receive, and if, on the basis of these reports, I consider that there is a need to give some impetus to law enforcement authorities, I am giving these suggestions. If, on the basis of these reports, I consider it important that these reports are addressed to other members of the government, so I am trying to get them to other members of the government. And in the event that these reports show that other members of the government should act, I call on these members of the government in writing to do so, that is also in the relevant regime, and I require that the members of the government respond and also respond in writing to these calls that I send to the members of the government on the basis of these service reports. In general, on this level, I can inform the Chamber of Deputies that the practice of handling these reports has changed at the Office of the Government, not only do I strictly insist that all the rules and regulations regarding the handling of these reports be followed, of course. Over the past two years, I have no memory of any problem with leaking this information that I receive as Prime Minister in these reports. That means the regime is strict, it is fully in accordance with the law. And the second thing that has changed compared to the past is that the reports aren't in the archive somewhere, but I'm trying to get the government to actively deal with them, that the members of the government respond to them, and that the authorities active in criminal proceedings should there be some serious evidence and do not do so in the relevant service, so that the Office of the Government draws attention to this. And now, therefore, on issues relating to relations between the Czech Republic and China. Above all, the relationship between the Czech Republic and the People's Republic of China is a complex issue. It includes the area of economics, it includes the area diplomatic, cultural, security, but of course also generally political. These relations cannot be reduced to one of their components, such as security and international policy. I think it is also very clear that the Czech Republic is a member of the European Union and is involved in the coordinated foreign policy of the European Union. It is also very clear that the Czech Republic is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance and we participate in coordinated activities of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is this membership of the European Union and NATO that defines our foreign and security policy and also defines the elementary standards of our foreign and security policy, including the values that we defend within the Western democratic community. However, this is not excluded from developing relations with the People's Republic of China in the broad spectrum that I have described, and it is not excluded from both the Czech Republic and our neighbours, whether it is Poland or Slovakia, or perhaps Austria, Germany, France, United Kingdom. I think that it is hard for anyone to blame Great Britain for putting the values of the democratic West at risk in a situation where it develops intense trade relations with China, as the Czech Republic has been trying to do in recent years. [[10.00 hours]] As far as the security area covered by a number of Mr Korte's questions and concerns expressed in his interpelation are concerned, I must therefore confirm that at this level I am unable to publish information from the Security Information Service or the Office for Foreign Services or the Office for Foreign Relations and Information which I am receiving which may be relevant to this issue. I can assure you, as I have already assured you in my written reply to this interview, that, as Prime Minister, as Chairman of the Security Council of the State and Chairman of the Intelligence Committee, I naturally closely monitor the security situation in the Czech Republic, I continue to deal with the really existing security threats and information of the security forces that I receive from them in this context as a legitimate addressee. In the case of a security threat to the Czech Republic and the finding of information indicating the possibility of its creation, I always respond in accordance with the law. As regards, in general, the political area, where the issues related to promoting human rights protection also fell, I can reiterate that the coalition government did not resign from this support. This is demonstrated not only by bilateral talks conducted at different levels with Chinese partners, but also by public performances, e.g. my own during the launch of the Chinese Investment Forum in June 2004 or the regular appearances of the Czech Republic at the UN Human Rights Council. The area of human rights was also explicitly mentioned in the press release of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic and China from April 2014. The issue of promoting the protection of human rights was also mentioned in a joint statement signed by both presidents on 29 March this year. This issue was also the subject of my negotiations with the President of the People's Republic of China, including my proposal to conduct a bilateral dialogue on human rights between China and the Czech Republic. Similarly, I believe that specific examples show that our government has not resigned in its policy of either China or to the development of cooperation with Taiwan. I would like to say that cooperation between the Czech Republic and Taiwan is more intense than in the case of a number of other European Union Member States, mentioned by Mr Korte in his interview. As far as the economic area is concerned, I agree with the Member, as I mentioned earlier in my written reply that other European countries are ahead of us in the influx of Chinese investment. It is the standardisation of our relations with China that should at least partially offset this lead. The new approach of the Czech Republic to China has already been reflected in the influx of the first major Chinese investments and also in the influx of tourists to the Czech Republic, which is also supported by newly opened direct air links. There have also been a number of improvements in the position of our companies in a complicated but huge and promising Chinese market. Our mutual economic relations thus have positive dynamics and other important Chinese investments can follow. In terms of the importance of Chinese investment, I think it is worth reminiscing last year's visit to the Chinese President in the UK to remind ourselves of the reception that he received not only from leading British politicians, but also from the British royal family. A visit to the Chinese President in Great Britain brought confirmation of business and investment contracts worth £40 billion in total. This is concrete evidence that good relations with China often lead to stronger Chinese investments and to increased trade. I can confirm that the Government of the Czech Republic is developing trade policy relations with China in line with the European Union's common commercial policy, in line with the valid export strategy, which is defined for the years 2012 to 2020. In this strategy, China was identified as a priority country in terms of Czech exports and the concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic from July 2015. [[Concept?]] In relation to China, the concept recognises the country's importance for addressing global issues and stresses the need to have regular dialogue with China. The Czech Government also uses the 16 + 1 platform to negotiate with China, i.e. meetings of 16 selected Central and Eastern European countries with China on closer cooperation in many specific areas. Relations with such a large and culturally and politically different country, such as China, are indeed complex. They need to be developed carefully and with great attention to what connects us, but also to what we perceive as the Czech Republic and China differently. I want to assure Mr Korte that I am not forgetting this in all the negotiations with the Chinese representatives I am taking part in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Korte is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u12	Thank you for the floor. So, Prime Minister, we've heard from you again, you really are a master of alibis, we've heard long tirades about what others are doing again. I don't really care what other people do, I care what we do. As far as the investments are concerned, I didn't notice any. If you're saying that the concept of an investment is that CEFC has bought a stake in football Slavia, well, it's not an investment, it's a change of ownership. But let's leave it at that. Of course, I didn't want you to share intelligence with me. I didn't even ask you that. I asked you if you knew the information I was talking about. All you have to do is say "yes," you just have to say "no." Let's do it again. Mr. Ming Jianming was Vice-President of the Chinese Intelligence Service in 2005 and 2006 on purpose, the intelligence service, the CEFC company, which you personally and the President are doing here. Her main supporter and agent is your advisor Mr. Tvrdík, her legal interests are represented by your friend Radek Pokorný, Dr. Pokorný, who did not even hesitate to submit a pre-trial call to my colleague Marek Ženíšek, sent him to refrain from any critical remarks to Mr. Jie's address. Mr. Ming Jianming is an advisor to the President of the Republic. In your response, you tell me: It is fully under the responsibility of every constitutional factor that the Advisory Council creates. That is true, but the President's constitutional officer is part of the executive that you, Prime Minister, are head, and you are responsible for this. Therefore, I ask you again: Do you know the facts that I have spoken of? Do you know who Mr Ťien Jien is, and do you know what the CEFC really is, and yet you support this cooperation? Are you going to intervene against Mr. Ming Jianming continued to work in President Zeman's court?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u13	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from Mr Kováčik, then with priority rights... One more deed after Mr. Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are times when you think, and it gives you quite a hard time to think about how to do it so that the reaction is polite, so that someone doesn't say that I expressed myself too grossly, that I was insensitive and so forth. And so I'm gonna take a detour in the brief moment I have at my disposal. You know, I don't always agree with what Prime Minister Sobotka says. I am one of his meticulous followers and quite a lot of critics on a number of topics. We did not support this government, we did not support the Prime Minister and we do not support it, but at this point I want to thank him for the peace and objectivity with which he is responsible for all the stupid things that have been said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u15	I thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Ondráček's de facto Member. Then, Mr Korte. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would, I don't know how you guys managed to navigate because those Chinese names are pretty similar, and now I've lost a little bit of the ties between the family and the political clans... If you can't use those screens here for some relationship analysis when the next hour is P.S.M. It would be better to listen to it, to the audience uninformed, and we would certainly have better orientation in the whole system intertwined. So just a supplement for another hour of PŠM - add it to some pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u17	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with Mr Korte, in fact. Mr. Kořenek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u18	Thank you. I only, of course by your means, want to respond to Mr Kováčik's words. You know, it can't just offend me, of course, what you're saying, but it can't even surprise me. For the Communist Party, the first Rome is Moscow, the second Rome is Beijing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u19	Thank you. Now, please get to Mr. Kořenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very sorry, I thought this republic had a completely different problem. But apparently I didn't see last night that our Prime Minister had also become Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China. So I would like to congratulate him on this, because otherwise I don't see the point of the contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u21	Thank you. And I beg you, Mr Kováčik, for what it's worth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u22	Thank you for the floor. Only a very short time, by your means, Madam President. For us communists, Rome remains Rome. We do not bow to Moscow, Beijing, Washington, or Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u23	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u24	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I was pleased to hear the opinion of my colleague Korte. I'd like to supplement it slightly, because he's wrong about some things. For example, he rightly stated that the Institute of International Relations of the Chinese people founded Zhou Enlai. That's right. He forgot to mention that his honorary member, for example, is former US Foreign Minister Henry Kissinger. I think it's necessary to fill in the information he's been giving. Seriously. Now for his statement. I would like to know how not only he, but everyone else who evaluates political regimes in other countries will cope with the fact that the Czech Republic ratified the International Convention on Political and Civil Rights, it is in our Collection of Laws under the number 120/1976 Coll., when Article 1 of the International Pact clearly states that each nation has the right to its own political regime and to use its natural resources. So yes, even the Chinese nation has the right to its own political regime, and the Czech nation also has the right to its own political regime. It is not our right to dictate to the neighbouring Slovakia, which was part of us until 1992, what political regime is supposed to be, nor is it our right to dictate to the United States of America what political regime or the strongest economy of the world that the People's Republic of China has become, what political regime is to be held last year. So much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u25	Thank you. And now, with Mr Korte in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am moved to tears when I hear the President of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia refer to an international pact on civil and human rights. With reference to China, where Chinese tanks launched a peaceful demonstration on Heavenly Peace Square 20 years ago, it is China, where it is not only closed but also executed for a political opinion that does not convene the official doctrine. Really, I'm touched.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u28	Thank you. And thank you for the debate that's going on so well. I'm almost starting to feel sorry for the eleventh hour when we're going to talk about China again, but this time in another dimension. So allow me, after all, a few more comments on what has been said here. When we came to the government more than two years ago, we gained the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and gained it on the basis of some government program that we are now trying to implement. The government program was based on the fact that it was time to put an end to the fact that the Czech Republic was in an economic recession, that we are a country that should grow, that we are a country that should create jobs. This is also linked to the change in economic policy, but also in support of exports. And we just decided to abandon the stupid method used by the previous governments here, which means they ignored the potential that the Chinese market simply has. Even if we can have different views on what the government is like in China, what the political system is in China, we still agree that China is the second largest economy today. And it's silly from the point of view of a country whose jobs are based on exports, and it would be stupid from the point of view of a country whose jobs depend on how we sell our goods, how we manage to sell our services, because we have ten and a half million inhabitants, but the capacity of industry is set completely differently... They're just counting on us to be able to export. And it would be completely wrong for us to continue in a policy where we ignore large markets, where we ignore markets that grow faster than growth within the European Union or growth within the euro area. This does not mean that these markets will become crucial to us over the next five or ten maybe 20 years. The eurozone market, the European Union, will always remain key to us in the coming decades. But we must look for further and new possibilities so that we are not entirely and 100% dependent only on economic developments in Europe. So because we have responsibility for employment, for social and living standards in the Czech Republic, we have changed economic policy, we have changed foreign trade support policy and we are trying to help our companies and our entrepreneurs to get into the Chinese market, among other things. And of course we want foreign investment. And if these investments create new jobs, if these investments respect our rules, our laws are in line with the economic strategy of the Czech Republic, then we will not be cataloging these investments in the way that some Members from the right part of the political spectrum occasionally show up here. [[10.20 hours]] We've spent a lot of time here discussing migration, how the world is becoming more dangerous, how it's getting darker, how the international community doesn't work. It can't work if we take out its essential segments. How do we fight terrorism? We can only fight terrorism on a broad international platform, and China, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, belongs to that platform. How can we do operations against smugglers, for example, in the waters of Libya if we do not have the support of the UN Security Council, so we will not agree with its members? How do you want to fight global warming and mitigate the effects of drought, climate change without agreeing with countries like India or China, which today produce huge amounts of CO2 emissions? You just have to take them aboard, they're part of the platform and the negotiations. We've been discussing the issue of nuclear safety recently. We worked to prevent nuclear fuel from getting into the hands of terrorists, because that would, of course, increase their weight and their blackmail potential. At that table, countries like the United States, Germany, France, China, India, Brazil, agreed on the basic measures that we must take together. If we begin to castrate in the way you do here, none of the serious problems facing today's world is manageable, it is not elementaryly solvable. I agree that there must be a free debate, there must be a free debate about China. Everyone has the right to express their views on what they think about what is happening in China, as well as here we can discuss any other country in the world and express our views on what we like there or what we do not like there. I would only like the Czech Republic to act in accordance with its national interests. And when I say that in accordance with our national interests, membership of the EU is, in accordance with our national interests, membership of the North Atlantic Alliance, but it is also in line with our national interests to promote as broad a dialogue as possible at international level and to promote our exports and to look for ways to promote the emergence of new jobs and improve the standard of living in the Czech Republic. I just wanted to point that out at the edge of the discussion. And I thank Mr Kořenka that he also mentioned the fact that we also have problems in the Czech Republic other than the issue of relations with China. These are the daily problems of the people we should help here in Parliament and in the government to deal with and not dissipate. Certainly the debate on the history of the Chinese Communist Party belongs to some seminar that would be held in the Chamber of Deputies, but frankly, honourable Members, I may disappoint you, but it is not the main topic that the Czech Government would address.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. I record four factual points and one priority right of the Minister of Culture. First, I will give the floor to Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip on his point of fact, and Mr Ondráček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u30	Thank you. I really do not want to prolong the seminar, as the Prime Minister rightly called it, but it is true, of course, that there are states of the world that have not taken decisions such as the Czech Republic that they will end up in the law of the death penalty. One such state is certainly the People's Republic of China, as is the United States of America. Yes, they're being executed in both states. In China, for example, it is executed for corruption. So in this respect, we can say that there are really many different regimes in the world in this regard, and either we will judge this from the interests of the Czech Republic, or we will judge it from some ideological point of view, and we will say that these are devils, these are devils, and these are good. It's not like that. According to my court for Czech politics, Czech national interest is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u31	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Ondráček's microphone, Mr Vácha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u32	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. In my previous factual remark, I used the abbreviation PSM twice. I didn't realize that there were many men among us who weren't in the military who had already forgotten or weren't in the military for other reasons, so the shortcut to explain is the political training of the team. And we just graduated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u33	Thank you. I ask for a microphone from Mr. Vácha, Mr. Kučera will be prepared. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the introduction may have been a little longer, maybe some of you didn't have the strength to listen to it. But you should have listened because it was quite interesting. I have a feeling that my colleague Korte has turned to life, and it has been seen that many of you have jumped out with their factual remarks and have resisted the truth that my colleague Korte has made here. But you may not understand. And Prime Minister, maybe you didn't get it either. In my opinion, my colleague Korte did not ask us to change the regime in China, he did not want us to change the regime in the United States or elsewhere, as my colleague Filip said. My colleague Korte just wanted to draw attention to the dangers that slowly and sneak into the Czech Republic, and he wanted to ask the Prime Minister if he was aware of this danger. And Prime Minister, you have this habit that when someone asks you a question that can be answered yes-no, you talk for 10, 15, 20 minutes and you don't actually answer. I would really like to know if you are aware of the danger that is coming through the official companies that are coming from China into the Czech Republic. Not the danger of economic, but the danger of political, the danger of espionage, not only economic espionage, but also political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u35	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Kučera, so far the last... He's downloading his application. And I have Mr Heger's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to comment on the Prime Minister's speech and the performance of colleagues from the KSČM club. I fully agree that there is currently a certain threat from the Chinese side, but I certainly do not think that this would be the main concern of the Czech Republic. And if there's any real threat, it's from the Russian Federation, as the development of the last two years has shown us. But relations with China are very important. From a business point of view, it is necessary to agree that, as the rest of the world is trying to cultivate trade relations with this power, so should the Czech Republic. And I would just remind the Prime Minister that his statement that the previous governments have done nothing about it is to put on a dog head that likes to practice here with respect to the previous governments. TOP 09 in some aspects is indeed acting as a positive opposition, a constructive opposition to the government, and I myself have held some of the steps of Minister Nemecek myself, but I must remind you that the dog's head rests in the fact that the Nečasův government has already started relations with China. A very wide area has been opened in health care, which is now very widely used, and if this government continues to do so, it would not do so in the way it is done today. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u37	Thank you. I'm now registering three applications for the debate. With priority rights, the Minister of Culture, the Prime Minister and then Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u38	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I am listening to this debate with great interest, because the issue of human rights and the question of respect for human rights in China is a topic that I have been dealing with for many years in the long term. I must say that some of the things that have been said have interested me. Some positive, some negative. On the basis of my own experience and a number of discussions with the Prime Minister, I must say that I know that the Prime Minister is very concerned with this issue and that human rights are a matter that is on his mind. I often admire the difficulty of his position and balancing very difficult positions. I think that the important things that have been said here from Mr Korte's mouth have also been taken into account and dealt with. And I consider these serious things and these serious messages to be stupid, as has been said here from the mouth of the KSČM Members, to be an insult to all those who are truly suffering from the absence of human rights and are prisoners of conscience in the People's Republic of China. They're being taken away from their organs just because they have a certain view of the world. I would very much like to turn against that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u39	Good morning, dear colleagues. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u40	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me also comment on this debate, on some of the other contributions that have been made here. What I criticize, and what I criticize, and what I have clearly said is that there is no such practice anymore, is that the reports have been very often made in recent years, that the security services have produced information, produced official reports, t official reports have been passed on to constitutional officials, constitutional officials have either become acquainted with them, or have not been acquainted with them, and have subsequently been set up in an archive without anything happening on the side of the executive executive executive executive component. Or maybe something happened, but it happened very often inconsistently. I don't think so. That means that taxpayers' money was spent here to have secret services, to pay people there, to get information, to write down the information, to send it to government members, and there was no response. I think that was a mistake. And I try, at least as Prime Minister, for the information that I receive in the relevant regime - because a number of these reports are simply under some kind of secrecy regime - to appeal, in specific cases, to individual members of the government, to deal with these things so that they do not take them lightly. It is not quite simple simply because, in most of these cases, we are bound by a certain regime of secrecy, but I am trying to ensure that there is a reaction from the executive. So if there are specific suggestions, I try to respond to them in a specific way. Unfortunately, this hasn't happened in the past, we're paying off today. I'm going to mention an example that you also know, and it's a case against the Victoria Group. Victoria Group has been repeatedly mentioned in the past in information received by constitutional officials. The reaction wasn't enough. It is simply that the government has never been able to respond consistently and sufficiently to protect, based on the information at its disposal, our material reserves that we still have in Germany. It just didn't come back. And if it came and arrived on time, today we did not have to be in that situation that we have stored material reserves with a company that is bankrupt in Germany, and it is very difficult for us to get this diesel back to the Czech Republic. So I criticized that. The fact that there was not enough willingness from the executive to deal with the incentives she received from the services. Second point. I think we come across this very often, and in fact, we all know that the world is not black and white. No serious problem can actually be solved in that black and white vision. And now, for the last time, we've been confronted very strongly in Syria. Just no black and white view of Syria works and doesn't work. Not on either side. And if reconciliation is to be achieved in Syria, then everyone will just have to look for a compromise. On the one hand, Russia, Iran, the Asadův government, on the other hand, the United States, Turkey and their other allies. The situation in Syria and no other complex international problem can be solved. And I would also like to warn against the black and white view of China, against the black and white view of Czech-Chinese relations. That would be a big mistake, and above all, it would be stupid on our part if we applied such black and white views. Speaking of priorities. I think what is our priority today, and what we already feel here, in Europe, in Brussels, in Paris, is the fight against international terrorism. The fight against terrorism, which now depends largely on the infrastructure of the Islamic State. This is one of the key priorities, and this is about life. This is not a question of general safety phrases. This is about the lives of people in Europe, and if we want to combat international terrorism, we need a broad international agreement, and that agreement must include China and must include Russia. That's the reality of today's world. We do not have another world here, just this one, and we need to look for options to simply agree, what priorities to have and how to fight against the greatest real dangers that threaten the lives of citizens here in Europe. On the issue of investment. I have already mentioned the question of categorizing investment. We're in a situation - and I'm going back a little bit in the past. In the past, there was such a simple notion that everything would be sold. That everything will just be sold, including infrastructure. That means we're the countries where gas pipelines were sold, privatized. This is an important part of the energy infrastructure. They are now in private ownership and the government can hardly influence how private ownership of gas pipelines in the Czech Republic is transformed or applied. I'm very glad we didn't sell the airport, Prague airport. There were suggestions in the past that the airport would simply be sold. In my opinion, this is an important part not only of transport but also of security infrastructure. I just think that where the state has ownership today, or has mediated ownership, and this is CEZ, these are nuclear power plants, that is, distribution, electricity for a large part, the high-voltage distribution that the state owns, the airport, MERO, Čepro, should remain there, because only so can the government affect the security aspects that are related to this infrastructure. Of course, where the infrastructure has been privatised over the past 25 years, the government can no longer exercise any direct influence. We're talking about where the investments are going and how this could be related to the security of the state and our progress. It is certainly true that a certain turnover in relation to China has already occurred at the end of the reign of Petr Nečas. I'm just reminding him of his performance at the fair in Brno. At that time it was the ODS government, TOP 09, Petr Nečas was Prime Minister and already began an effort for more pragmatic trade relations with China. Then Rusnokův's government, which was here for several months, followed by my government, which started in the spring of 2014. That means, it's true, the turnaround occurred at the end of Petr Nečas' reign. However, there was a dispute and a contradiction between what the Prime Minister said at that final stage, and, for example, what the Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg said, who both sat in one government and each of them applied a different position and a different opinion towards China. This, of course, was also not an ideal situation from the point of view of Czech politics and its clarity. [[10.40 hours]] What we need, and what the government has to guarantee, is a functional security infrastructure. This security infrastructure includes the National Security Authority, it includes secret services, of course it includes police and other parts, the military, and it is very important that this functional security infrastructure is independent of foreign influences and is able to guarantee the security and standards required by our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance as well as the European Union. And what the government has to guarantee is that it really does. I see this as my role as Prime Minister towards all these institutions. They simply have to operate on the basis of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, they cannot be subject to any influence from abroad. Just the constitutional responsibility is obvious, it is the government of the Czech Republic, it is citizens of the Czech Republic and we must be guaranteed that none of these institutions will fail in terms of the issue of monitoring the security interests of citizens of the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic as such. So much for the debate that has developed here. And I really do not have any information that any investor here is interfering with the impartiality and independence of this security infrastructure, which the Czech Republic has at its disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Benda, duly registered. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u42	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the somewhat long interpretation of the Prime Minister - we have become accustomed to this, that he answers a simple question for about 20 minutes on a completely different subject. A colleague of mine already said that. I would perhaps return to what this interpelation was about, more or less, the question that my colleague Korte asked at the end of his speech. And that question was quite simple, and it was supposed to be answered: yes - no. There didn't have to be any team training, as a fellow communist here said, and the MPs applauded him for YES. And the question is: Mr. Prime Minister, do you realise that CEFC is a business company dedicated to China's military intelligence service? Yes - no. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u43	I thank Mr Kučer for his point of view. With another factual remark, Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't take her right from the government, and I don't want to attack it at all. Maybe it's a good thing, maybe it's a bad thing that she changed politics towards China, maybe Russia. But I would follow up on my colleague Kučera, who asked a specific question, and I would like to hear a specific answer. However, Prime Minister, your last sentence was that you do not have information that there would be an influence on some Chinese operators or the influence on security infrastructure. So when you answer my colleague Kučera's question, keep that last sentence in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u45	Thank you, Mr Vách. With another factual remark, Mr Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I wanted to ask because I am very interested in this, and I was rather frightened of how China is now threatening us. And I'm not saying that as a joke, that's what I'm really worried about, because if I could get a source of information, how did you guys know it was agency business if you told us the source of information. If the Prime Minister doesn't have it, of course it must be a very reliable source, so if my colleague had told me what he was getting the information from, how the intelligence agencies are in the Czech Republic. [[Unique applause from the left side of the courtroom.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u47	I thank Mr Foldyn, who will obviously find out, because Mr Marek Ženíšek is asking for a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to use this option because the second point or the other answer to the written interpelation is actually related to something similar, and I don't think we're going to get to that today. I was saving some of my stuff except for the next point, but I think it's necessary to react. The Prime Minister has the information. It does, because it is available from public sources, are also available on the Visegrad Group website, where I assume the Czech Government is contributing to this website. It's just information that's publicly available. So the question simply sounded, as my colleagues said before me, that we are not talking about the relationship between the Czech Republic and China in general, we are not talking about economic investment, we are not talking about human rights in China, even though I am very interested in this issue, and we are not talking about the fight against terrorism, Prime Minister, we are not talking about cooperation in the fight against global warming. We are simply trying to find out your position as Prime Minister, what is your opinion on whether you consider the above CEFC to be a threat to the security of the Czech Republic, as Mr Korte has put it very thoroughly, what is the property structure of the company, how it was created and how it operates in the world and who is its Chairman of the Board of Directors. That's all. And I thought you'd answer that either I have the information and I'm acting in some way. No one asked you to give the BIS reports here, of course you can't. But for God's sake, you have some opinion of your own. And I think, and I really hope, that we get to that at the next point, maybe, that we're gonna force you to answer that, because you're getting close to her. You've almost already said that you don't care, that there are more important things and that you think there isn't. [[Time warning]] And that scares me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u49	So, thank you, Mr Ženíšek, for his point of view. Mr Marek Benda, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u50	Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as it is, when you make a proper application, almost everyone overtakes him with factual remarks. But I think we really should get back to what this interpellation was for. It wasn't about relations with China. I'm not questioning them, I understand that we're trying to do some business. I would even say that I appreciated the government of the Czech Republic, unlike some statements of the President, which kept a relatively cool head, did not try at all in those contractual documents, now I do not mean in the behaviour of the police, but we will get to that in 15 minutes, did not try to bribe the Číňan at all costs, and I have to say that here I really appreciated the position of the government of the Czech Republic. But here we're talking about whether there's a situation in China with entities that are controlled by intelligence from a foreign state. If these subjects here aren't buying from private individuals, but maybe from the state, and if they're not too close to the President of the Republic. We know that the President of the Republic has repeatedly proven certain insensitivity to security risks. Half of his office doesn't have security clearance, and he's probably gonna have to pack up, because the President of the Republic is obviously underestimating some things, and the National Security Office isn't gonna give his chancellors a background check. And now we're talking about whether or not there are agents in the immediate vicinity of the president, potential agents in any other foreign power. And the Prime Minister here assured me that he is calling on his ministers, I know he has nothing left to do, because he cannot do the President of the Republic as opposed to his ministers, but at the same time he says that if such a risk were in the vicinity of the President of the Republic, it is the same security risk, the same infrastructure security risk as the purchase of any security infrastructure. After all, the President of the Republic as the highest representative of the armed forces is part of the country's security architecture, and it is necessary to know whether he decides only on the basis of his opinion and his feelings, or his apparatus, which is internal here, or whether there are any influences of foreign countries, and that of non-theoretical countries, and whether these influences cannot create a security risk. That was our question, or the question of my colleague Korte. Aren't you afraid of security risks around the President of the Republic? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u51	I thank Mr Benda. That was the last person to sign up for the debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Sorry. Mr Martin Novotný, with a factual point, followed by Mr Korte. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u52	Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to mention a slightly different aspect and point of view of the whole thing, not only the potential relationships of those Chinese economic operators to certain services and the like, that is important. But I also perceived this visit from the point of view of our internal policy. It has already been said that the investments that are agreed on are actually acquisitions that relate to property changes in the empires of various financial groups. And I saw this visit primarily as a strengthening of the relationship of the President of the Republic with these important Czech financial groups. At that point, I wondered who was the most vulnerable to the future. I thought today's prime minister was primarily due to long-term relationships. As soon as I found out that it was to some extent dominated by the role of Pokorný's lawyer, my concern had eased to some extent, on the other hand, as I have known for years of badger from the Highlands, I would fear that our current Prime Minister has been at risk most by strengthening relations with financial groups from the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u53	I thank Mr Novotný. Another duly registered member is Mr Daniel Korte.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain. We're spinning in a circle that's obviously delusional. I think we're gonna close this. I propose a resolution. The House disagrees with Prime Minister Sobotka's reply to Daniel Korte's written interview, House Press 778.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'm the one who's paid to close, not bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u56	I was just giving you a hint.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u57	Please, when the debate is over, read the resolution. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I therefore ask Mr Daniel Korte, as proposed by the House of Deputies' resolution on this answer. I'm asking for a formal review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u58	Thanks for the heads-up. I propose a resolution: the House disagrees with Prime Minister Sobotka's reply to Daniel Korte's written interview, House press 778.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u59	Thank you for this motion for a resolution, which I will put to the vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mr Daniel Korte put it, that the House does not agree with the Prime Minister's response to his intervention. I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. Whoever is in favour of disagreeing with the interview, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 365, registered 88 Members of Parliament, for 20, against 57. This resolution was not adopted. Since there is an extraordinary meeting at 11 o'clock, and we have a few seconds left under the Rules of Procedure to avoid having to open another interpelation, so if there is no objection to my procedure, I will no longer open another interpelation - and, I do not have to - for the Prime Minister. I interrupt the meeting of the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will continue today at 14.30 p.m. with oral interpelations. And I would remind you that an extraordinary meeting begins at 11 o'clock, the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-001-230.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the suspended 44th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Please sign up with your ID cards. Apologies, replacement cards and their numbers apply as said at the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The following apologies from today's meeting have been added to this point: from 14.30 to the end of the day, Minister Chovanec apologizes for the reasons of work, between 14.30 and 19.00 for the reasons of work Mr Martin Sedlář and Mr Václav Votava apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the day. That was an apology, and now we're going to proceed to a point.
