ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u1	30. Proposal by Members Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek and Petr Kudela for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (Law on the Register of Contracts) /Household printing 699/ - second reading I will ask Minister Marian Jurečka, Mr Jan Chvojka, who is rapporteur for the Guarantee Constitutional Committee, and Mr Klán, who is rapporteur for the Public Administration Committee. The Economic Committee will represent Štěpán Stupčuk. At this point, I am asking Minister Marian Jurečka to present a second reading of this press. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me introduce a bill amending Law No. 340/2015 Coll., on the special conditions and effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, i.e. the short term law on the register of contracts. The only objective of the bill is to remove the national company Budějovický Budvar from the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts, even before this law becomes effective. This step is motivated by the concern that the inclusion of Budějovický Budvar into the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts in practice will cause significant problems with very serious consequences for this national enterprise. The specific position of Budějovický Budvar, which justifies its exclusion from the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts, is in my opinion sufficiently known. Budějovický Budvar is a business entity and its main objective is to achieve profit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. I will remind you that we have another distinguished guest at the guest gallery today, the first Vice-President of the Parliament of Estonia, accompanied by Vice-President Gazdík. Mr Vice-President, we welcome you here. [[Members rise up in the benches and applaud the delegation.]] Thank you. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u4	Above all, it should be stressed that Budějovický Budvar operates on a highly competitive market, not only national but also international. This distinguishes Budějovický Budvar from state-owned enterprises which face only limited or no competition at all. The compulsory publication of contracts, which also necessarily include contracts with foreign customers, would lead Budějovický Budvar to be exposed to distortions of long-term business relationships, deterioration of competitiveness and damage to the value of the company. Moreover, the compulsory publication of contracts with Budějovický Budvar poses a risk of deterioration of its position in ongoing trademark disputes. Budějovický Budvar is an important employer and takes part of the profit in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns every year into the state budget through the founder's fund. The role that Budějovický Budvar holds in spreading the good name of the Czech Republic abroad is also significant. The risks posed by the Act on the Register of Contracts for Budějovický Budvar have an all-social overlap. The Economic Committee discussed the draft law on 18. 3. 2016 and recommended that it be approved in the text of the amendments. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed the draft law on 1. 4. and recommended that it be approved in the version submitted. The Constitutional Committee discussed the proposal on 25. 5. 2016 and recommended that it be approved in the text of the amendments. The common denominator of the amendments approved to the committees is the extension of exemptions from the Act on the Register of Contracts. I can say, as the petitioner of the bill, that it is not our intention to prevent the adoption of a more comprehensive solution if there is a broad political consensus on it. From our point of view, however, it is absolutely essential that the result must not jeopardise our original objective, i.e. the exclusion of Budějovický Budvar from the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u5	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka for the petitioner. I note that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Public Administration, Regional Development and Economic Committee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 699/2 to 6. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jan Chvojka's constitutional committee to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Constitutional Committee dealt with the printing at its 67th meeting last Wednesday, 25 May 2016. Following a statement by a member of the draft group of Members, Minister of Agriculture Ing. Marian Jurečka, rapporteur for Dr. Jan Chvojka and after the debate, the Constitutional Committee first recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal. Secondly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt amendments and additions to this bill - which you each have on your desks or in your system. Thirdly, it instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. Fourthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at a meeting on the Constitutional Committee on the results of this draft law. Fifthly, the Committee's rapporteur hereby authorises, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Jan Chvojka. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán, to inform us of the committee's discussions and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 39th meeting following the reasoning of the proposal by Mr . Marian Jurečka, after the report by Mr Mgr Jan Klán and following the debate adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the press in the text presented. At the same time, I have priority rights to report to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I will ask Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, the rapporteur of the economic committee, to inform us of the discussion in the Economic Committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee on the press in question. The Economic Committee addressed the draft law at its 35th meeting of 30 March 2016 and, after hearing the introductory words of Mr Petr Kudela and Mr Štěpán Stupčuk's report and after a general and detailed debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 699 as amended by the approved amendments, as approved by the Economic Committee. [[17,00 hours]] In brief, only what the amendments are about. These amendments, which were recommended by the Chamber of Deputies for approval by the Economic Committee, all relate to the extension of exemptions, i.e. the exclusion from the obligation to publish contracts in the register of contracts, in particular for entities, for commercial corporations and legal entities where the founder is a public corporation, state, region or municipality, and where such corporations carry out either a commercial activity or an activity which has an industrial and commercial nature in connection, i.e. the management of the public interest. Another crucial heading concerning the approval of the amendment to the Economic Committee is the postponement of the effectiveness of the draft law for 1 July 2017. For another economic committee, he also authorised the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which have no impact on the substance of the proposed law. Thirdly, he instructed the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee. Fourthly, he authorised the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u11	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I first register the priority application of the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration, Mr Jan Klán. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon again, government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I've been thinking about what I'm gonna talk about. I wrote it all down on eight pages. So it's gonna be a little bit longer again. But to begin with, I might say here that I and a few colleagues have been included in the eclipse. That's kind of interesting. I was quite amused when I saw it on the Internet, that I was blacking out, or that I didn't want to publish the state's or state-owned businesses in some way. But let me comment here on a certain evergreen just called the contract register. The creation of the Act on the Register of Contracts went through approval at the end of last year when the Senate returned it to us in its version. This included, of course, the exception that we are dealing with here now for Budvar, but at the same time, the possibility was inserted to control the concluded contracts of the Office for the Protection of Competition, but this was not accepted by the House. The House adopted its version, which was submitted by Mr Farský, and the law will start to apply in the middle of this year, i.e. as of 1. 7. 2016 but without penalty of invalidity. So it's gonna be like a trial version of the contract register. However, my appeal to the fact that the register of contracts threatens the competitiveness of state, semi-state and other companies has not been answered. I have always been accused that the register of contracts will not endanger anyone, because these companies can black out their data and the subject matter of the contract can also be vague. But there is one but, or more such buts. When I pointed out, for example, the threat of Budvar's national business, everyone was mocked, but only after the contract register was passed, everyone suddenly turned around and finally began to say that it is necessary to remove Budvar, like CEZ, which has an exception from the law at this time because it is a listed company. When we look at it all in the face of the present, state, semi-state or municipal companies are taking their profits into the relevant budget, i.e. the state, the municipality, the city. In the case of state and semi-state enterprises, their profit is the income of the state budget. If these companies in the register of contracts are forced to publish their concluded contracts above 50,000, as the current law says, this will certainly put them at risk in my view. In the words of the director of the national company Budvar Jiří Boček, the Budvar contract register will be damaged in trade marks with Anheuser-Busch. As I have said here many times, I see Anheuser-Busch as a sweet dog walking around waiting for the Budvar contracts to be published in the contract register. I do not believe that under Law 106 on free access to information, someone from Anheuser-Busch would have requested contracts, as Mr Farský, for example, has spoken of many times here. In addition, in his view, Budvar's register of contracts would put up a loss of up to half a billion crowns. I wonder where the state would then receive such wasted funds. So I'm definitely in favour of Budvar getting out of the law. However, we are now coming to other state and semi-state enterprises. There's no need to remove them? I say it's necessary. After all, the Minister of Industry and Trade, who came here with an analysis of who everything and how much the register of contracts threatens with its state-owned enterprises, which the Ministry of Industry and Trade has competence, also woke up when discussing the return from the Senate. I also saw Deloitte's analysis, which I think the Ministry ordered, now I don't know whether the interior or someone ordered it. And it clearly analyzes the threats of individual state and semi-state enterprises. Of course, some non-profit organizations claim that this is a rigged analysis, but every analysis has something to do with itself. Of course, I don't underestimate her, but I don't overestimate her. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the contract register is not about healing the system, but about looking into individual contracts. Let us ask ourselves the fundamental question of whether a citizen who looks into the contract register will save something. Nothing can be saved if the contract is concluded at a disadvantage. He'll just look sadly at the fact that he's really closed down at a disadvantage. And that's all he can do. In the contract register, it is about proving that the state is a poor economic operator in our terms. And we're at the core of the problem. Now I will conduct at least two mental experiments where I will show you that the state cannot be a good or bad economy. At the same time, I'll show you in the example of Budvar what will happen if he is not removed from the contract register law. The same applies to other state, semi-state or other enterprises. Example one. The argument for the introduction of a register of contracts is that the state is a poor economy. Let us admit that the state is a really bad economy in the Czech Republic. But the state itself cannot be a bad or a good caretaker. The result, which we refer to as a bad economyman, is primarily due to inappropriate, ineffective, incorrect or poorly set regulations, i.e. primarily by laws. These rules are designed to enable public administrations and public administrations to behave in a manner that results in what is called a state being a poor economic operator. In fact, it is the result of the behaviour of individual government bodies that act so because they are allowed to do so by individual boundaries, if you want the rules of conduct given by the laws. The consequence of such behaviour is inefficiency, inefficiency and inefficiency of the management of public resources. The idea that the register of contracts will change that is an illusion. After all, it will show a further development, whether it will or not. The problem is that it is necessary to set up effective general regulations, especially the Public Finance Control Act. But he's still out of sight. According to my latest information, when I asked about the Ministry of Finance, the government should have had it on the table long ago, but now it's only the Legislative Council of the Government, so maybe we won't see it at all. Maybe that's good for someone, because it's another one of the key anti-corruption laws. Notice the difference here that the contract register is no anti-corruption law. And the Public Procurement Act. And to demand these laws in practice. We have already approved the Public Procurement Act here in the Chamber of Deputies. We can add to all of this the Supreme Audit Office Act, which has already been mentioned here several times, which has been discussed in the Senate and rejected by the Senate, so the Senate has returned it to us, but I will be very curious how we will vote on it here because the constitutional law has been rejected. In my opinion, it is not to be voted on because it is only to be voted on the accompanying amendment law on the Supreme Audit Office and not on the amendment of the Constitution. I wonder how many voices we'd have to overvote here. [[17.10 hours]] If I look for example. Austria, as has been mentioned here many times, has the highest supervisory authority and does not need a register of contracts. It may be a mistake that the senators have rejected the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, because, to put it public, the Supreme Audit Office would be sticking its nose in some place that somebody doesn't want to go again. If we look, as I said, at Austria, the Supreme Audit Office is quite precise, they do not have a register of contracts, but Slovakia has a register of contracts. Let us say that only Slovakia from all countries of the European Union has a register of contracts. Thus, the Act on the Register of Contracts only solves a partial problem. The whole system needs to be solved or treated. It's like a disease. A good doctor does not treat symptoms, e.g. just headaches, sedatives, but he's looking for what's causing the pain. Once he's eliminated the cause, he'll solve the problem. I've already said here in my performance that we should be good doctors in our case. The contract register itself won't solve it. Let us heal the system as a whole. The register of contracts may be one of the partial instruments, but it would not be necessary if we had fully functional key laws, e.g. Public Procurement Act, Public Finance Control Act, State Property Act, Budget Rules, etc. There are many holes everywhere in these laws and in new ones individual holes are produced, see for example. Civil Service Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as examples show, the register of contracts does not heal anything and is only a partial instrument for controlling the management of public money or goods as you wish. We are getting to the second example. Budvar, which is part of this bill and is to be excluded from the scope of the register of contracts, is threatened by the introduction of a register of contracts in the context of competitiveness on the market, in particular in the field of the Budweiser dispute. Budvar also brings considerable funds to the state budget. This thought experiment I'm going to introduce you to is the following. Budvar will have to publish in the register of contracts all contracts with a nominal value of CZK 50,000. This is what the tender competition is waiting for, which is ready to damage Budvar with all possible means. As soon as the contract is published in the contract register, anyone, i.e. just mentioned by me, will be able to look into it. The claim that Budvar can blacken the data that would put him at risk on the market did not convince me in any way, because the price will also have a determining and decisive factor in this case. I can actually imagine that competition will deliberately lower some of the prices on the market in order to liquidate Budvar. As it is slowly, but surely destroyed by this fineness, the division of such weakened prey will already be prepared. Budvar will then be labeled as inefficient, uncompetitive, loser, etc. It will therefore be gradually privatised. Or, let's understand, effective disposal. That's what the competition's waiting for. As Budvar is gradually privatized, there will be a weakening of the flow of money into the state budget. Then I wonder where governments will take money when privatization only brings profits once, while the functioning of state enterprises keeps making profits. So it is necessary to remove all state and parastate enterprises from the contract register. Example three. The problem of a state monopoly versus a private monopoly. The register of contracts and its supporters want to introduce privatisation of the State as a whole. In the weaker implementation they are interested in state and parastate companies, respectively. and the municipal society. But let us return to the problem mentioned above. A state monopoly has a clear advantage over a private monopolist. It can be regulated by the State in the public interest. You can't regulate a private person. It's all about profit. In my opinion, the state should have strategic conditions, companies, transport and other things that can be regulated in the public interest. Example four. The register of contracts is intended to show that the State is poorly managed in its state-owned enterprises. However, by having to publish contracts concluded in the register of contracts, the form of ownership is distorted. After all, we own private and state property. This is based on the Constitution on the same level, but the register of contracts is very disturbed by this. So in the contract register, they're going to have to publish state-owned companies' contracts and not private companies. Remembering that private companies are responsible for the major financial crisis in 2008, I would increase transparency for them. It follows from the above that in the register of contracts all or no one will publish concluded contracts. Some might argue that some state-owned enterprises are inefficient. This is possible, but this is a problem primarily of ill-established laws, the law on a state enterprise, the law on supervisory councils and many others. And not the contract register. He just points to the problem that something doesn't work at the beginning. Let us answer the clear question: Will a citizen be saved if he can look into a disadvantageably concluded contract that will be valid and will be concluded by two Contracting Parties? It's not like he's gonna save anything. Let's be clear about that here. And I would also ask, for example, a previous petitioner to answer this question, whether a citizen will save anything. I've been discussing with a lot of people, and they've told me it's not gonna save anything. They're just gonna watch as the contract is concluded. Nothing more, nothing less. Of course, someone here might argue that Slovakia, for example, has reduced the number of directly awarded public contracts. I'm not saying that. But I will slowly push my speech into the finals, because there will certainly be an interesting debate that I can certainly respond to. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we must realise what is going on here. In the contract register, it is not about healing the system as a whole, but it is about using information from contracts often by third parties. It is precisely because I am worried about Budvar and other state-owned enterprises that I will vote, I assume also the entire KSČM parliamentary club, for the removal of Budvar and state-owned enterprises from the register of contracts, or we will vote in favour of further amendments. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have been discussing the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development for quite a long time with representatives of the Reconstruction of the State who claim that this law is anti-corruption. But even a representative of the State's reconstruction didn't answer my simple question about whether a citizen would save anything if he could look into a disadvantaged contract. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u13	I thank Mr Jan Klán. We are continuing the debate, in the general part. Now, Mr Radek Vondráček, a colleague of Farský, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have forgotten a little bit what I want to talk about to be convincing as my colleague Klán. However, for you who have endured in the hall - do you also feel that déjà vu that we have heard all this here once before? The law was submitted in 2013, then we discussed it for a long time, a working group held a long meeting, a comprehensive amendment was adopted, a consensus was reached, we adopted the law, the Senate returned it to us. Once again, we have overruled the Senate, and the law has come into force, and efficiency is due to come into effect next month. However, the arguments were coming back from the Senate, and now they're coming back again, they're just regrouping and we've got them back. [[17.20 hours]] As we discussed the original law, of course, we were already discussing the issue of business secrets, it was one of the fundamental milestones that we had to pass through, which we had to sort out somehow. I still stand by the fact that trade secrets in the register of contracts are protected, even by special provisions and more significantly than in the law on free access to information. At this point, there is pressure on individual companies to exempt the obligation to publish contracts. The leader of these efforts is Budějovický Budvar. We had the Director on the Constitutional Legal Committee. We discussed the matter with him openly. I offered him the opportunity to present some contracts with which he felt the direct threat and that we would sit over the specific provisions of the treaty. The director didn't give us the contracts. To study only at the meeting itself he gave them to us and we had to return them after half an hour that they were confidential documents. Of course, it is difficult to study a long contract for the distribution of beer in the Russian Federation during the ongoing discussion, but I have tried to do so to the maximum extent possible and have tried to demonstrate on that agreement that if they see something as competitively significant, it is their right to destroy this passage. In this way, we were able to proceed and we actually came to the conclusion that there was really no argument as to why the contract in question could not be published if both the contractual partner and the price are clearly defined as facts which need not be published or as metadata and can be blacked out in the contract. So we're getting into a situation where there's a lot of resentment up here and there's a panic that threatens business secrets and significant damage. I understand the arguments, and I was one of those who advocated maximum protection in the law, because the original proposal didn't contain it. However, we have set a trial period for this law - a luxury trial period of 12 months. What law has this? None. And that trial period hasn't yet come up so that we can project the concrete practical knowledge and experience into a possible amendment, and we already have a proposal for a change. The very change concerning Budvar, when Budvar really has certain specifics, including when it came to the European Union, including its long-standing disputes with foreign competitors, could be considered as being excluded from the register. It wouldn't be about changing the system. This would be a partial change in the law, and perhaps we would get over it and accept it somehow. But unfortunately, Pandořin's box has opened up and what has now broken down, and the various changes and amendments are making us even more evil than the Senate has done to us in its time, which has already deboned the law once and brought it back. A flagship such as the arguments of opponents of the register of contracts for business companies is Deloitte's study, which fell overwhelmingly. However, I must say that she should have answered the question of what the implications of the Act on the Register of Contracts would be when there was a breach of business secrecy. Well, we're saying that there may not be a trade secret breach, and that means that the input parameter and the assignment of the study is wrong and devalues the entire study. For me, this is a treatise on what would happen if business secrets were disturbed. But I insist that business secrets are protected, and are protected more than in Law 106. And most of those who now fight are subject to the rule of law 106. Even practical experience does not prove to us that they are the target of any attacks, etc. etc. I don't want to delay too much, because the previous post was also very full. So I'd just like to keep the consensus that existed here. Of course, there were individuals who were opposed from the start, had their settled opinion, which they held. I have respect for them, they've stayed on their own. But we, like most, have decided to register contracts for a certain symbol. Of course, I'm not saying that the contract register is a universal remedy in the fight against corruption, no way, but it's a symbol. It's a certain strong symbol here in this campaign. And if we have recently seen in a positive way that the evaluation of the Czech Republic has improved significantly in terms of the risk of corruption, this law can move us back up a number of rungs. So I would like to ask all those who have already voted in favour of the law once before not to succumb to pressure - it depends on how the debate is still going to take place here - to respect, for example, the Budějovický Budvar, although I have some slight reservations about it, but not to go into the fact that we are going to break the law here before it starts to apply. The purest solution would be to let him enter into force, because there are no sanctions, take at least three months to evaluate the situation, consider specific practical risks and really return to that law in the autumn, when we already know something, and we could possibly correct the law if it is actually confirmed from practice that there are problems. Now we're sewing it with a hot needle. That law, based on what I've learned in the two and a half years we've been here, we're no longer able to accept it before it comes into effect. 7. 2016. So what's the hurry? What forces us not to move this in the fall to evaluate what happened in those three summer months, and maybe fix the law? I'm just worried that we're gonna do something about this, and there's gonna be another novel in the fall. And I don't know if I can do any more déjà vu. I don't know what I deserved - I'm not allowed to smoke and register contracts. One subject better than the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u15	That was Mr. Radek Vondráček. Before we proceed, I will state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jan Zahradník, from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day, Mrs Jana Pastuchová and colleague Josef Zahradníček apologizes for tomorrow's day due to a doctor's visit. Mr Jan Farský will now prepare Mr Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Radek Vondráček has said a great deal of what I would have liked to say. I'll try not to repeat what was said. I will remind you that the law was first introduced in 2012. Since then, of course, the issue of Budvar has also been discussed, it has been discussed all last year, when the law seems to be lying and nothing has happened to it. It was parked. The response to this was to supplement § 5 para. 6, which extends the protection of business secrets against the law of 106/1999. Once again, I'm going to repeat that all the exceptions that are in the hundred-six are also applicable to contracts that would otherwise be published under the contract register law. If companies are to be threatened by the disclosure of business secrets, they're already, according to the hundred and six today. Therefore, I cannot accept this argument entirely. Still, I'm not gonna say that the law can't make a mistake, no fly. But what we're deciding right now is not a rational atmosphere. It's a hysterical atmosphere, a fear that began with the loss of beer, continued by losing the biathlon, and when it still didn't sound strong enough, some even began to claim that the register of contracts would also pose a threat to patients' lives. That's not true. None of the three parts are true. It's a faulty law. He's important, and as such, he enforces a change of behavior. I am convinced that the change that he enforces is a change in behavior for the better, that we are to manage public funds publicly. And that I would feel beyond hypocritical at the moment when the House approves the inspection report approving the electronic record of sales, at the same time say: we will collect taxes from you, but do not ask what we will spend it on. [[17.30 hours]] And the debate about whether or not a national enterprise is supposed to be there. The national business is only one subject and it's Budvar. But it has served as a battering ram to the fact that 22 amendments have already been tabled today. Most of the Members who voted in favour of this law last November. Ironically, you will not find amendments from opponents. I would like to ask those who were still convinced last November, and I think that they rightly believe that the law makes sense to give him a chance. And I hereby call on all Members not to rule in unconscious hysteria, but to let the law work for a month. That's what the government put in that year's probationary period. It is precisely to test where there are real problems and where there is only a perceived deficiency. Therefore, I would like to propose one of my aspects of the essential things that we need to discuss today - if we finish the second reading today, it will also happen that the law will take effect on 1 July. The annual probationary period that was inserted by the coalition group will begin. We can't stop that from happening. The obligation to publish contracts falls on Budvar and other state enterprises. But if we close the second reading today, it will no longer be possible to approach this in any way within this press and maybe even use this print 699 to solve it in some way where there are real problems. It is a matter that today, when I look into the system, and from yesterday there is, I do not know whether five or six amendments. Today there are five other amendments read, one of the last minutes. These are amendments that often overlap. The same Members give two different amendments to the same paragraph, which are clearly being developed, the amendments. But this is not how we would have amended the standard before it became effective even before it entered the probationary period. That's how legislative pasquillas are formed. That's how you create legislative scumbags that then bother the lives of everyone who has to follow them. Since the law will come into effect on July 1st anyway, the contracts will still be published, I would appeal to reason right now. Nothing else. Let's give the law a chance. Let's evaluate in three months where there are real problems and where it is just a figment of hysteria, and then let's talk about it at the Ministry of the Interior, which is the legislative body entrusted by the government to prepare the proposal that we approved here last year, and the group of entities that came out here, let's put together an amendment with it, which will solve real problems and which will not just be a figment of lobbyists who have somehow entered the Chamber of Deputies. From this point, I propose that we interrupt the second reading of this law by 30 September this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Since this is a procedural proposal to interrupt this press, I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. If I understand correctly, you're suggesting that the second reading be interrupted by 30. This year's 9th. Okay. I'm gonna ask for a little more patience for my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on the procedural proposal. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'll check you out and ask you to re-engage with my cards. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. There is a procedural proposal to suspend this item at second reading until 30. This year's 9th. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the interruption motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 260. 118 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 40, against 61. This proposal has been rejected and we will continue to discuss this point. In fact, Vice-President Filip is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Members of the government, ma'am, and gentlemen, yes, it's a breaking law! Unlike Act 106, we have opposed Article 11 to the adoption of the Act on the Register of Treaties against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. All of a sudden, the equality of ownership forms doesn't apply! Can you tell me what public funds Budvar uses in its activities and in its commercial activities? None! It gives all funds from its economic activity, from profits to public funds. And he's publishing contracts. But the solar barons, they're fine, they don't publish anything. This law is contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic because it promotes one form of ownership above another. And that's the difference between Law 106 and that law. In this respect, I believe that the interruption was precisely the advantage that private companies should have enjoyed over those owned by municipalities, regions, states and other public institutions. It's a disgrace! This law of the Chamber of Deputies has nothing to do with protecting public property. It has nothing to do with protecting public funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u19	Thank you. Before I make another factual remark, I'll read the note. From 17.45 until the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská apologizes. Another point of fact is made by Mr Klán, and Mr Votava will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me respond by your means to Mr Farský. I've heard these arguments here too for quite a long time. But I have always wondered why we should have a register of contracts as a second country in Europe. Why don't we work this out more comprehensively? Does that mean the laws at the beginning, the Supreme Audit Office Act? We're gonna check in the finals! This is only a partial law and a partial control only, the contract register. He's not saving anything! I already told you. He merely points to the problem that we have at the beginning in the individual laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u21	Thank you. Mr Votava now and Mr Farský will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will also respond to Mr Farský's colleague through you. He's appealing to our senses here! I'm sorry, with all due respect, didn't we lose our minds when the law was passed? Just towards Budvar? I have a clear conscience, I didn't vote for it. It's about Budvar. And I don't know if my colleague Farský is aware of the gambling that just happened with Budvar. Budvar is in a market environment. And in a hard environment, competitive environment. And if you strip him naked like that, you're gonna strip him like that, you're gonna put the Budvar down. No wonder Principal Boček, I talked to him about it, I went to Budvar to see if he didn't like it. Of course he's worried about the company, the business he pulled out where the company is today. Moreover, you know well that the group that held Pilsen Prazdroj is selling. And the group, of course, or the owner who was supposed to get it, he's fighting for Budvar stamps. It's already a threat to Budvar. And the fact that if it's said something gets dirty, it's gonna get blacked out in those contracts, that's total nonsense. What are you going to do? You're gonna black out Budvar's supplier? Well, the contract doesn't make sense for it to be. Just the supplier, that's a hell of a sensitive figure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Farský, Mr Heger will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to remind the government, in particular, that this proposal to exempt Budvar went through the government and the government took a neutral position on it. The government didn't support it either. Are you saying the government has no sense either? Four out of the five ministries that were asked and gave an opinion on the exclusion of Budvar said that it should not look good. The Ministry of Industry and Trade said it, the Ministry of Justice said it, the Ministry of Finance said it, and so did the government. The only ministry to exclude Budvar from the register of contracts is the Ministry of Agriculture. Surprisingly, when this proposal was made by the Minister of Agriculture himself. Are you saying the government has no sense? And I'd like to add some more. Budvar himself doesn't threaten his contracts to be on the contract register. Those valuable contracts that somebody was interested in, he could've already requested from a hundred and six and had them a long time ago. Talking about how the contract register reveals what pub Budvar is in, I think it's also more for a smile. Budvar threatens it when Rittig and Nagyová's eavesdroppings reveal that they identify four golden veins in the agriculture department and between them the land office and Budvar. That's a threat to Budvar, not a contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Heger. Mr. Opálka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u26	Thank you very much, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would return to President Filip by your means and allow myself to ask such a question about you as a supporter of our constitutional order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u27	Only Vice-President Filip, as far as I can see, is not present. But you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u28	Then maybe he'll read it. How can it not be constitutional that otherwise a state and commercial enterprise is treated under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms when it is treated quite normally differently with state and private hospitals? State hospitals, like private hospitals, mainly manage public funds from public health insurance, while state hospitals have to carry out selection procedures and they do not have to do so. Well, that's also unequal treatment, but apparently, constitutionally, no one cares about this case. So I consider the argument that concerns Budvar and constitutionality a little bit as purposeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u29	Thank you. Mr Opálka now, Mr Klán will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the effort to privatize Budvar has already been here in several waves. We have some ex-government members, right-wing ODS governments, TOP 09 and Public Affairs, and even before that, and maybe they would have remembered how many times before they discussed how to do this with Budvar. You know, there's nothing to hide in the Czech Republic. Information shall also be provided from these internal solutions. And when it didn't work out, there was probably another way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Klán, Mr Hovorka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u32	As I'm listening to this debate here, I've remembered who's being bullied by who. Mr. Farský here said we were being pushed into hysteria. I'm not saying all of them, but some of them are naughty representatives of state-owned businesses or the Budvar national enterprise. That's not true. Let's ask ourselves who pushed the most register of contracts. Well, one of the biggest lobbyists -- reconstruction of the state! Let's face it, that was them. And let's look at the connection. Who pays for Reconstruction of the State, even if it looks like a nonprofit organization? Look in their manual, where they say about the greatest, most amazing law in the world. The encyclopedia of their contract register. That's where you'll find out who's supporting them. Private capital! That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Hovorka, Mr Snopek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I agree with Mr Vondráček that business secrets are dealt with better in this bill than in Law 106 on the provision of information. I would like to say that I have no problem with exempting Budvar from the scope of this law, but I would like to say one crucial thing: that the Chamber of Deputies approved the Act on the Register of Treaties, I consider the House's biggest anti-corruption measure during this parliamentary term. And I would very much hate for this law, which will actually come into effect, to be dismantled by a lot of amendments that will make it a torso. I don't have a problem with exempting Budvar, but I would like to ask for moderation and realize that all those cases that were here - Opencard, robbing Hospital Na Homolce, other cases, all these cases would not have to happen if they were to control what contracts are being made, how they are being concluded, and how we manage public funds, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Snotek. Mr Votava will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, calls are being made around Budvar's national business, but let us be aware that, within state-owned enterprises or enterprises, we also have military, research, repair companies that basically ensure the role of state defence. We have businesses here that work to defend the state, and unfortunately we haven't removed them from this one either. Even some data that do not fall under the protection of business secrets may lead to a threat to the security of the state. I will therefore justify my amendment in a detailed debate. We need to see one business more widely, not just through a narrow window, we need to see the problems far wider and more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Votava now, Mr Klán will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, I think it was not meant to be a parliamentary proposal, it was meant to be a government proposal, because, after all, the government should put forward such proposals. And if a fellow Farský, by your means, thinks it's all about where Budvar has a pub, well, he's wrong, of course. I said there's a lot of sensitive data - customers, suppliers, etc. - and the competition likes to fall for it, and she's very happy to draw... Of course, those private entities are not obliged to publish anything in the register. So I see a major threat to Budvar. And not only Budvaru, I think in general also of other companies, companies with state ownership. It's a really dangerous thing. And me and priori don't reject the contract register, but the contract register should really cover other things. It should concern resorts, etc., not specifically companies with state ownership, which often move on the market, in a competitive environment. [[17.50 hours]] It's true, and I don't know who's mentioned it here and talked about privatization, that I've noticed a number of such questions. Wouldn't it be best if Budvar wasn't state? That wouldn't be a problem with the contract register again. If anyone's messing with privatization, the fact that Budvar will eventually bring in zu grunt and then buy it cheaply can be speculated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Klán, Mr Farský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u40	Thank you for the floor. He Hovorka not here, but I would like to respond to him through you. He said it was the anti-corruption law of this government. That's not true. We only have two anti-corruption laws that exist in some form. It is a law on public procurement and a law on internal control of public finances, which we still do not have. That's two key anti-corruption laws. The so-called register of contracts is only an ex post check, i.e. upon completion of the process. But we lack ex ante controls at the beginning of the process. We don't really have those. And if we don't have a law on internal control of public finances, the contract register will be de facto useless. At the same time, we can add precisely an extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. If this doesn't happen, the contract register doesn't save anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u42	I would just like to make a brief comment on the form of the bill. Yes, it's an MP bill. It was signed by 78 of you, of which seven members of the government. The government took this document into its programming statement and to the House press 42, which was a register of treaties, even included it in the Action Plan on Combating Corruption in 2015, it referred to the fact that, given how it was processed, it would not prepare a separate text, but that, in cooperation with the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior, it would prepare it to be digestible for the coalition. The completion of stratifiedness, and this included the list of entities covered, was dealt with by the coalition group last year, which defined which entities would be mandatory. So if you have reservations about Budvar, reservations about others, first of all there is a need to go there and ask why these subjects were there in the finals. By the way, in the Government's programming declaration and in the Action Plan on Combating Corruption, this list of entities was even broader than that of the coalition working group. It's just a draft of the law. And I think it would be wrong for us, as Members, to question the possibility of drafting laws, even because we have an exceptional position in that there are only five subjects who can submit laws. The Regional Council, the Senate, a group of Members, Members and the Government. If we want to get rid of ourselves and say that Members cannot, because perhaps they are less legal than others, we are really going against the substance of the entire Chamber of Deputies and its work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u43	Thank you. President Hamáček is now reporting with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u44	Thank you. I am very sorry, but please the President of the MPs or their representatives, if they could join me outside the Chamber of Deputies. You've already made a deal. I'm so sorry. In that case, I suggest we interrupt the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-015-030.u45	Okay. It's a procedural proposal. I will put it to a vote without debate. I'm gonna call my coworker and coworkers from the lobby. At this point, I am opening the vote and giving a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 261, 127 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 76, against 17. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
