ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u1	231. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I would like to inform you that on the agenda of the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of ten replies to the written interpelations with which Members were not satisfied have been submitted and have therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. It is my duty to inform the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with Article 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure before I begin the discussion of responses to written interpelations. On 20 April 2016, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová did not reply to his interpellation with regard to the national foreign language learning plan submitted by 20 April 2016 to him on 25 May 2016 on the Rules of Procedure of the House with the announcement of Mr Karel Fiedler on 25 May 2016 in which he stated that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová had not responded to his interpellation with regard to the national foreign language learning plan by that date. I shall also draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it nor shall it be further discussed. So we're going to approach each of the interpellings. The first interview is the interpelation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the equipment of police officers SPJ of the capital city of Prague. It was interrupted by the presence of the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec, who is excused, therefore the condition persists. And also the interruption of this interpelation. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpellation with regard to overtime work in the important interest of the service is also the second intervention. Again to the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Interpelation has been interrupted, the minister is absent, excused. Interruption lasts. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the staffing of supervisory boards of state enterprises. It's a 766 print. The hearing was suspended until the Minister's presence. That's here, so we can discuss this interpellation. I am opening the debate and I will give the floor to Mr Stanjur, the Interpelling Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u2	Good morning, Mr President, dear two members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Before I get to the interpelation itself, let me make some general remarks. At the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which lasted three weeks, this means not only in the Chambers of Weeks, but also in variable ones, the government ministers' participation in written but also oral interventions was actually trivial. Then we heard the Prime Minister's resolute words, how he's gonna do it, how things are gonna be different. How he had a table drawn up. That's how we learned in the press how much participation the minister has. Most of the time, they were making excuses for having other responsibilities, but I'm sure it'll get better. Now that the Prime Minister has focused on it. And if you've listened well to the Prime Minister, we were supposed to discuss ten written interviews today. And I'm the only MP who has a minister here. One out of ten. This is the improvement after the Prime Minister's strong intervention, who promised us all that he would make order in the government and increase the participation of ministers in the interventions. Originally, I was thinking of staying behind the door to stay in the same guard as other colleagues who have been asking for answers for weeks and months, respectively. discussions on answers they were not satisfied with. I don't know what to do. President Hamáček promised and did, several times he turned like our President, the President of all of us, to the Prime Minister asking the Prime Minister to make order. You see the result today. Of the ten written interventions, only the Minister is prepared to answer one in ten. [[one]] It's really undignified. I don't know who's been apologizing tonight for what different work reasons. You know we're prepared to understand an apology in a really serious case. But if, for example, The next interpelation is also mine and will be interrupted for the fourth time - I do not know how many other colleagues have, but those two before me also had to be interrupted for the fourth time, because at least in those three weeks at the last parliamentary meeting could not be discussed. I have read somewhere and they have asked me - Mr President, that you are supposed to initiate a change in the Rules of Procedure, so I apologize for the inaccurate information from the press. It happens sometimes in the press that inaccurate information... so maybe ANO colleagues keep saying how they would improve the Rules of Procedure. So let's see if these interpelations even make sense. Last time, I was slightly parodying oral inhalations. These are particularly enjoyed by government MPs. I'm not gonna name them. They are then judged as the hard-working Members, because they have ten interventions, unlike the rest of us, who have three. And the one who does the statistics forgets to add that it's the interpellation I said last time, Mr. Prime Minister, how do you do it, that you're so good? And the Prime Minister will read the prepared five-minute response. Then comes the additional question: Prime Minister, you are even better than I expected. That answer really convinced me. How do you really do that? And then the Prime Minister comes in and says, "You're right, that's right. That's how good we are. And I'm glad you asked me that question, my dear fellow social democracy, and I could explain to all of you how well we Social Democrats do it. [[9.10 hours]] There's no point. And I suggest it's really serious. So let's talk about format. Maybe they shouldn't be so often, but it should be an attractive discipline where coalitions and opposition can have a debate over topics that bother our voters. This is the theater, especially with the oral ones, by being prepared for answers. And you've all been there. And I'm not saying it was any different to be fair. It is always the personal approach of a Member. As a government MP in the last parliamentary term, I didn't even intersect the Prime Minister or the Minister once, because it seemed quite genius to me as a government MP to intersect my ministers with the question "how do you do it that you're so good". And I think it's a serious moment to think about how to change the format. Because, in my opinion, this is a waste of time and also, in principle, a waste of the day. If you take the Thursdays and you figure out what's going on - well, if the interpelations were going on, that's okay. This is especially an area for the opposition to criticize, control the government, ask questions. Then we are forced to propose extraordinary points. You're telling us: no, no, no, we have our own points. Then we're forced to convene an emergency meeting. And most of the problems, whether the newly proposed points or extraordinary meetings, could be discussed in the context of the intercession. So much for a general introduction. On my behalf, I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture to written interpelations. We haven't been doing very well in the past few months. But he's the only one out of ten today who's present. Well, we should appreciate that. Now I don't mean it ironically, because if he wasn't here, we had nothing to discuss at all, and we would have broken up at 9:02, that at 11:00 a.m., the Chamber of Deputies will continue. I have asked the Minister of Agriculture how he conducts personnel policies in the occupation of the supervisory councils of state enterprises in his department. And I deliberately asked general questions to get answers. If I sum up the answers, and if you look at them, the minister actually says it's in his jurisdiction, and he decides it himself. There's no way I'm gonna criticize that. This is, of course, a possible approach, the Ministry is such an autocratic body where the minister decides, so I don't want to criticize this. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] On the contrary, I would like to appreciate that the Minister was not hiding behind the fact that he did not actually know about it and that it is decided by his subordinates etc. So what I want to talk about is how it is applied in practice. We've been convinced for two and a half years that this government... There's not enough of us here, but there's not enough of us to hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u4	Thank you, too, Mr President. We have been convinced for two and a half years that this government is doing this differently, not like the previous representation, that it will no longer be a reward or any reward for party colleagues, because such practice is inadmissible. The ones before us did it horribly and we'll be better and different. Some of you have undertaken to prepare the law and enforce the Act on the occupation of positions in the supervisory and management bodies of companies with state participation, so that you can then be completely realistic, I must say, and they have stated that such a law cannot in principle be written. And if anyone wanted to write it, it would be very difficult to fulfill. So you came up with the idea that such a decoy: it's different now, you've set up a personnel committee, or whatever his name is, I'm sorry if I'm not saying exactly where the individual nominations from the ministries go, the HR committee will discuss it and either recommend it or recommend it. I'm not going to read specific entries from specific people because I don't want to criticize the individual applicants. But I suggest you get your attention that these entries are public. Read them and look. And please, if you're in a bad mood, read it, you'll laugh. So I'm going to paraphrase some of the outcomes or the course of discussions from this personnel committee. I'm not gonna say the name of the person or the business. For example: "The members of the committee discussed with the candidate his previous professional career. They stated that he had achieved managerial success in his management functions. They also stated that in some sections of his professional life these managerial achievements were not achieved." End of quote. [[Unique applause from the right side of the courtroom.]] Conclusion: "There was a vote after that, with the number of votes three, this candidate was recommended for office." So the notes that say, "Well, he's basically good, he's done something, but at the same time he's self-critically acknowledged it, and I'd appreciate that he's admitted that sometimes something's gone wrong. Well, it would be a shame not to have such a person in your service, wouldn't it? That would be a shame for the state. - And it bothers me about the hypocrisy and the comedy and the acting on something we're discussing and that it's better than it was. It's the same, in many cases worse, but you're looking at how you solved the problem and how it's done differently now. If I were to complete my questions, I merely quote that the status and responsibilities of members of the supervisory board of state-owned enterprises are defined by the Act on a State enterprise which, among other things, says that the members of the Supervisory Board are appointed and elected from among independent experts, economists, scientific and technical staff and banking sector workers. It's in the State Company Act. This definition therefore states that the members should be good people who will be able to exercise effective control over state-built enterprises. So the additional questions I would like to ask the Minister are: Are your Ministry defined requirements for the expertise and quality of practice, which is a prerequisite for the performance of the Supervisory Board member's duties in the professional nominations of the Supervisory Board members? Did you set up a nomination committee at your Ministry? Are there any minutes from consultations with the Ministry's expert services that would assess the practice of your nominated people so far? And if you don't, then I guess it's a simple thought that you're gonna think about it, you're gonna evaluate it yourself, and you're gonna decide that he's a good candidate. And now I apologize that I will also appoint some of you, my dear colleagues, because it did not allow me to look at whom all of these independent experts were sent by Minister Jurečka to the supervisory councils of state-owned enterprises in order to abolish political trades and remove this ugly practice, which was carried out mainly by past governments and, in particular, by governments in which KDU-ČSL was not. Povodí Ohře: our colleague Mr. Pfléger, also Mr. engineer Rozšafný, KDU member, regional secretary KDU-ČSL, also Mr. engineer Jakubík, member of the KSČM, representative of the Karlovy Vary Region. The Elbe basin: Mr. Senator Šilar, yesterday he was a member of the KDU, Mr. Governor Franc, a member of social democracy. Vltava basin: our former colleague, today the Governor of the Central Bohemia Region, Mr.Petera, Mr.Mrkva engineer, Chairman of the District Executive Committee of the ČSSD in Jindřichův Hradec, member of the Regional Executive Committee of the ČSSD South Bohemia Region, councillor of the South Bohemia Region. Moravia basin: engineer Jedlička, Chairman of the District Committee of KDU-ČSL in my native Opava, Bachelor Šoltys, Chairman of the District Executive Committee of the Czech Social Democratic Party, Přerov, Vice-Chairman of the Regional Executive Committee of the Czech Social Democratic Party, our colleague Mr Okleštěk. The Odry basin. [[Member Okleštěk from the post in plenary: The Waters of Moravia.]] Now I'm saying the Odry basin, I was talking about the Moravia basin earlier. Don't worry, I didn't move you, I'm leaving it, it's fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u5	Please talk outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u6	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, you're right. What interests me is the Odry basin, among other things our captain, our captain, in the sense of regional jurisdiction, otherwise the governor for social democracy, Mr Miroslav Novák. But what interests me is Master Eva Florianová, nominated by Minister Jurečka. And she's a lawyer who represents a counterparty in a lawsuit that's not completely trivial and not insignificant. Opponent in the Court of Justice in the Povodí Odry is represented by a new member of the Supervisory Board of the state enterprise Podvodí Odry. Here's a specific question, Minister - did you know? And if you don't, and it's new information to you, I understand that you're gonna have it checked out. And the moment you find out if the information is true, if you intervene in any way. Or does it seem normal to you that, as a member of the supervisory board of a state-owned enterprise, a counterparty's attorney should have access to all the internal materials of this state-owned enterprise? Because a member of the Supervisory Board has every right to do so. To be clear, at this point, I am not questioning the ability of those appointed - just chosen - to be a complete list of people who perform those functions. I just wanted to remind you of the theory: "We choose independent experts, unlike those of previous governments. We're not gonna be there for our party colleagues, we're not gonna tolerate that in any way. [[have]] We are completely different, new, independent, better." And then I confronted you with some names in some of the supervisory councils of state-owned enterprises in the Ministry of Agriculture. And I believe that together we agree that these two sentences, these two approaches, are mutually exclusive. I'm a fan of what the Minister wrote to me in that answer. That it is the Minister's responsibility that he has the right to choose and nominate, and that he also bears full responsibility for the specific activities of specific people on individual supervisory boards. This is an approach that I think is right, which I do not criticise, which I would support. But at the same time, we can't say that we canceled the newsstands and at the same time give them away. At the same time, we can't say "we're putting in independent experts" - and there are people connected to political parties. And by chance, and I believe it, only the government. I'm sorry, semi-government - there's a nominated member of the Communist Party I read. But that's a party that supports the government very often. But that's for a different debate and a different place. And the last specific question I would add to my interpellation to the Minister. If there are the same rules for the remuneration of members of the supervisory board in your department. If so, if we can get to know them in general. I don't care how much a person took specifically, I really don't. And since when do these rules apply and whether they've been getting that reward since the first day they get on or not? Thank you, Minister, for your answers to these additional questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u7	Yes. The Minister of Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President. To your interpelation - maybe I'll start at the beginning. Yes, I haven't been here in the last few weeks. Unfortunately, when there was a three-week last meeting, I had a really long-term foreign business trip going on, so I couldn't be here. And sometimes you read the headlines that Jurečka and spol. did not arrive and did not work - so you are very sorry when you spend three or four days abroad, when you work quite intensively. However, the questions that have been raised here. I was trying to be specific and in the answers in that letter to those structured questions structuredally. Selection into the supervisory ranks is governed by the following principle. First of all, the proposal is presented to me by the founding department, which consults them on various types of businesses with the relevant sections, such as the forestry sections, the water sector, or the food and commodity sector. Because we also have such businesses where we have supervisory boards. However, this department will bring a proposal which I sign and which is sent to the government nomination committee. So ultimately, the Minister's responsibility is mine, in this case. In general, I try to stick to the principle that the ratio of the members of the supervisory boards is somehow escalated. When in most supervisory councils, which are usually nine members, the Ministry of Agriculture usually has three representatives and the rest is then transferred to some other departments, such as the Department of the Environment, in some cases the Department of Transport or Finance. Then we address, for example, in the case of the water catchment area, the regions concerned. Mostly the region on whose territory the water catchment area is mostly located, because in some basins we cannot reach all three or four regions if there are more of those regions on one water catchment area. I'm trying to keep that principle so that the county sends its representative there at the discretion of the Regional Authority and in terms of the integrated rescue system. In terms of long-term plans and flood strategies, I think it is appropriate for the Regional Authority to have a representative there. Of course, how much the region can and can offer an expert in the area is also a factor in considering it. However, I am trying to ensure that these people are either from the environment or from the region's head of crisis staff. The way you've been referring to some of the officers, I think it makes some sense. Or maybe it should be a member of the board who is responsible for the environment, or a person who understands the issue of construction. In general, we also try to ensure that the composition of the Supervisory Board, albeit with different nominations, includes people who understand water management issues, which we try to resolve by mostly by nominations for the Ministry of Agriculture. To have people with legal training there, to have people with technical training there. This means either a construction engineer or a man with experience in this field, or an engineer specialist in water management buildings. Which we also fill in many water catchment areas. And that there should also be people with experience of economic issues or management management from their previous places of action, or where they currently operate. I think I have forgotten from those areas in which we have the ambition to have coverage that we are now newly occupying audit people or creating audit committees. With regard to the question of political nominations or, respectively, those responsibilities that you mentioned. It would probably be correct, and now I'm not able to respond to it, also to say, when you mentioned the nominations for the regions, but also for the House - it would be fair to tell those people what their history is on the resume. If these are people who have legal education, if they are people who have experience in the field of construction or people who have certain managerial skills. So I'm not gonna be able to argue that with you today. Or maybe they're not members of the council. Because some of those appointed, even though they are not the commanders, are members of the council or the council of the region. So that would be a good thing to admit a little bit. I'd like to say that when I got in, yes, I did make some changes, but I certainly didn't come and I didn't say, "I'm gonna take a pen now and cross out all those who aren't, let's say, in the jersey of this government three-wheeler." It's not like that. I'm really capable of proving that. He ended up... Even here colleagues from TOP 09 had their deputy for a relatively long time, over two years, on one of the supervisory boards. So please, nicely, let's look at it this way. I remember when the previous coalition started under the reign of Petr Nečas, so it was quite quick to cut with the pen according to the party shirt. So I didn't approach it that way. As regards the question of remuneration of members of supervisory boards, there is a uniform instruction within the Ministry of Agriculture. The remuneration is set equally for members, Vice-Presidents and Chairs of Supervisory Boards. Now I'm just not sure that Budvar and the Forests have a slightly higher level, given their financial volume and responsibility, which is probably a little bit more demanding in this respect. But I don't have a problem filling you in on these data here. I'm not even sure if they're publicly available on the Department of Agriculture website. I don't want to go into this speculation right now. So about that many major points you mentioned in your questions. I suppose I haven't forgotten anything. But I'm sure you'll fill me in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u9	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u10	Minister, I clearly said I didn't want to question the competence of the people you chose. It's not me. And I'm not gonna read their CV, I'm not gonna say it's handy, it's not good. By chance, there's always a KDU member. You've already been upset that it's not true, that you don't even know. As in every supervisory board that you're talking about, which you're newly occupying, I'm not saying that you've cut every day, but clear - I'm gonna believe it's just a coincidence. And maybe they're people who understand, I don't question it. But why don't you ever ask the opposition if he has someone who might also be in charge of the supervisory board of a state enterprise? And we would definitely offer people with good resumes, construction engineers, auditors, lawyers. That's the way it is. Either you didn't write the answer correctly, Mr. Secretary, or you changed your mind or information. I asked you who chooses who is responsible for the selection of candidates at the Ministry of Agriculture and whether this person is personally responsible for this selection. You just said today that your union is making a choice of candidates. I'm sorry, I forgot the title. You were just talking about it. In a written answer, you tell me: on this question, I say that the selection of suitable candidates is fully within my competence. I understand you're choosing your own. So you have to choose if it's a union choice, and then you decide if of the three, five candidates you send to that government committee. You didn't answer my question about the Odry Flood situation. Well, if you know, if you're dealing with it, or if it's new information, I understand that you have to check it out first, and then you'll answer me in writing if it's based on the truth, because I can't fully verify it. And, if necessary, if you've taken any steps to do so. With those rewards, if you send me the rules, I just need the rules, I really don't need to know the exact amount of the amount, I just need the answer that it's the same everywhere. I think he's okay. Or typologically, if there's the same remuneration system in all the water catchment areas, that's right. And if there is another remuneration system with the Forests of the Czech Republic, it doesn't bother me, it's another business, another area and so on. So I'm sure we understand each other on this one. I just want to ask you if you're reading the transcripts from the government nomination, and if you think it's dignified to play the comedy in my opinion. I really read it and I really laughed. And I say before you do that, so cancel and name them yourself. I just think it's a smoke mist to take the responsibility out of yourself. I sent it, but the three experts - by the way, three are because there are three coalition parties to understand why there are three. I'm sure, even though I haven't checked, and maybe the Minister will tell me that one of those three was chosen as an independent expert by a coalition party. And let's remember this week from public sources how it works. Last year there was a general meeting of ČEZ. Andrej Babiš said: the end of the political newsrooms, the unacceptable practice, I appoint four new independent experts. And he did. The year he met with the year, some experts had an argument with the finance minister or criticized him, and this week or last week I read the Minister of Finance's statement: There will be a general meeting, I have to replace the people who are there, because now those independent experts are really coming. And he's changing the independent experts he sent there a year ago. And when we ask ourselves how we find out who the independent expert is, the answer is completely simple. The Minister of Finance will say that about him. That's it. When the Minister of Finance says it, he's an independent expert. And if he doesn't listen, he'll switch in a year, and we have an even more independent and better expert. And that's what I'm criticizing here. That's the difference between words and actions, Minister. I clearly said I wouldn't evaluate specific people, and I'm going to trust you that they're able to perform that function in the vast majority. But then don't play those games about some government nomination committee, really read it. Or maybe I'll read you a few minutes during the interview, so I can amuse you, too, so we don't always look so seriously in the Chamber of Deputies. It's not worthy of the candidates, it's not worthy of the public. And I think the minister can stand his own responsibility and say, "I chose these people." And he doesn't need three parties nominated by people who create the appearance and illusion of some selection of independent experts. They're people nominated by political parties, and they judge candidates that ministers broadcast from government parties, too. So the interlink is completely useless. I'm not calling for any tenders, on the contrary. I'm a supporter of the minister's choice of the people he sends there, he's responsible for them, and they're supposed to account for the Minister of Agriculture in this case, or the Minister of Finance, and not for those who actually chose them, who chose them on paper, that's the government personnel committee. If this were to work really, then every year these people should describe some kind of activity report, send it to the government personnel committee. They'll come back and say, "Hmm, my dear colleagues, my dear colleague, my dear colleague, I don't know exactly what the composition is. We made a good choice. We can write a control report after a year, we insist that in this case it turned out that there were more managerial achievements than managerial failures, so we insist on our assessment that he was successful and unsuccessful, which is normal for everyone. Something's gonna happen, something's not gonna happen. Or maybe it didn't quite work out, Mr. Secretary, send us someone else. But, of course, that's not how it works. That was also a fairy tale, one of the fairy tales of a sheep's grandmother, as the government's nomination or personnel committee regularly performs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u11	The Minister wishes to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u12	Thank you. Well, I have to say, I don't know about the candidate or the Supervisory Board member at the Odry Flood and the fact that he represents the counterparty. So I'll check, thank you for the suggestion. On the question of who is responsible for the trial, ultimately, the Minister, who signs both the appointment decree and the dispatch to the government nomination. I was just describing here how the process is going, that the founding department will process the initiative, bring the proposal, but ultimately I am signing, or, respectively, any minister, whether it will continue to be administered. So that's an explanation for the process, the explanation of the process, the principle. The remuneration of members of supervisory boards on undertakings in the water catchment area is equally set for both members and vice-chairmen and the chair of supervisory boards. I have to say a little - on Andrej Babiš's statements I am unable to respond to you here and I will not comment on them, it is his business how he comments on some nominations for the Ministry of Finance. I must say that I am looking at the minutes of the government nomination committee and, above all, I am interested in whether or not it has been recommended. There would be conflict with what you're saying is just something that works for the form. It's not like that. I'll give you some examples for my department when the government nomination committee rejected the nomination. I know at least - I've already made up my mind - three cases, one of which was the captain. So it's not like any draft from the Ministry came in, they waved it over and they just said it's moving on. So here I'm a little bit begging myself to say simply: it's just some cover-up here, it's all approved like a treadmill. Maybe I'd like to sometime - we can sit down informally, I'll do statistics on what the supervisory board looked like in the previous six years, and we can discuss how party T-shirts were represented there, especially in ODS colours. Because then it wouldn't be entirely fair to build it like that. However, if we want to build a new political culture - and I am trying to move it somewhere further for the better. I'm here today openly saying this and I'm going to send it to you by official letter to the Party Chairs today, we're discussing at least those audit committees on some state-owned enterprises. So I'm open to other parties who are represented in the House giving their nominations here. Then let's say that it is political or not political, but I believe that you will put professional people on these committees. So I don't have a problem with that if we say it's really a new political culture that we're going to hold. Unless, unfortunately, what happened during the reign of your Prime Minister, who simply managed to tolerate some of his cabinet members by consistently erasing the competent people from their departments. If we say tonight that we are building a new political culture in this area, I have no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u13	So before I give the floor to Mr Stanjur, Mr Fiedler's factual comment. That's right. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I'm listening to what's said here, even though of course I'm doing some other thing, which I guess you can see. But, Minister, through Mr President, if you are still talking about this new political culture, then, for God's sake, why do you want to get it fixed as it was in the past government? That's exactly what my colleague Stanjura was talking about. I was the guy, the citizen who decided to run because I didn't like what the last government did, so don't let my colleagues get mad at me again. And just because I wanted it to be a change, I ran.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u15	I ask my colleagues not to yell at the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u16	And to respond to Stanjura's words by letting you make a list of what happened in the past government, that's very pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u17	Mr Stanjura. Mr Farský apologizes from 14.30 for personal reasons and also for tomorrow's business day for a foreign business trip, and Mr Klaška apologizes for today's meeting from 9 to 13 for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u18	Indeed, a new political culture is not a constant muscling of guilt and comparison with what was. I'm sure it isn't. And it's really smiling. I didn't criticize the practice itself. You dodged the answer twice to the question of whether you see a contradiction between the words of the take-off and then that there is a secretary of the KDU-ČSL in each supervisory board of the Odry basin. And maybe he can, I'm not questioning that. Only if you see a contradiction today, because there are certainly other people who could handle that function. And as it was or wasn't, you can do the statistics. I was the Minister of Transport and in decisive companies - in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways was a representative of the opposition, on the Board of Directors of the SŽDC was a representative of the opposition. I left them there. It was even so that I approached the opposition party's chairman at the time and said: there is one place for you, because I think that in such a large enterprise the opposition should have accurate information, nominate the person you think will be able to do it, and we will approve him there. And that's what we did. So it's not a new political culture. And you're gonna reschedule it first, and then you're open to debate. But I asked about the contradiction between those words and actions. And you can check that from when I was at the Department of Transport, whether the opposition was sitting there or not. It seemed right for the opposition party to have information on such a large enterprise that a member of the Supervisory Board could use rather than always interpret it and I had to answer any intercessions to specific questions about the operation of the particular state firm. And we can ask how many in these institutions, e.g. Czech Railways or SŽDC is today representatives of the opposition. I'm not saying our party, I'm saying opposition. And we can compare what is old and new political culture. And once again, the practice has caught up with you, that the populist ones - I consider them populist, we will not de facto pick up, we will be appointed by independent experts, so we will name them. That's just the wrong way to go. He may be bringing some votes, maybe some political points, but really, and you're right, the minister is responsible for the resort, and he has the competence and the right to appoint people to help him in the performance of his duties, his duties. That's all. I was just criticizing your fairy tales about how it's all different, how it's a new, new political culture. I don't know how many representatives, for example. The right-wing opposition is in those individual supervisory councils. I don't want you to think that I'm calling here to offer you something and that we're going to nominate someone for you. But I found out that it took you two years for one of the TOP members to get him out, so that's nice. But I really don't care, I didn't even ask you that question, and you say - well, if you want to know, the first thing I'm gonna do, I'm gonna look six years back, and I'm gonna find out how many ODS members were there. Find out, Minister, and tell me first of all, if you compare how many employees of that political party were there, such as your district secretaries. Thank you. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. That's what you asked for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u19	Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u20	Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, I would not talk about this if you were not here to list the people to whom you deliberately added their political affiliation, and these people are proven for example. members of regional councils with a given expertise. Then it's not correct to set it up like that, and it's like asking the question whether it's just a coincidence or not. It's just that if I address the governor of my county with a nomination, I think it's perfectly okay for him to give such a nomination. And please don't use the plural. If Mr. Rozšafný happens to be the secretary of the KDU-ČSL here, of course I'm going back to it again, if this person is professionally qualified, it's my responsibility to nominate this person here. And I didn't open up the question that I want to compare here exactly who was a member of the political party last time, but you brought it up here with such a taste that there are Members of Parliament, members of regional councils who have some party jurisdiction. Then it's not fair. If you're building it like that, you should have said, "This man is a member of the Olomouc Regional Council responsible for that and for that." Then I'd consider it perfectly correct. That's why I leaned against it, and I said if we wanted to have this discussion, and I said I didn't want to run it here, I don't want to, let's sit down properly, we can discuss it in your office and say, if what you're criticizing today was different in the past. And I'm not defending ourselves from setting it up in any other way, because you, colleagues, are smiling here, so come take your word and come say it, but really, if this place has been set up in this way much more, and then when the government has changed, the members of the parliamentary parties have completely expunged themselves from their positions. So I'm just reminding you that we should also say these things quite openly, in the way in which the ODS did, at a time when you were already a member of this Chamber of Deputies, and you had a prime minister on how the ODS acted. And I'm sorry, maybe part of your previous performance was supposed to be more of an intervention on the Minister of Transport. I really am not competent here to comment on the Czech Railways, ČD Cargo, this is not a matter of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u21	Now, Mr. Bendl. Is that factual, Mr. Ambassador? You can normally, of course, but I'm just asking if I should let go of the clock. Please, then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, I did not originally want to perform because I felt that my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura's two last performance was final, but when the Minister wants to do this, I am prepared to have a public debate, somewhere in the office, and so on. I'm ready to have that debate about the practice in the past, at least at the time I was in the Department of Agriculture. Because a number of people here must also support the fact that the opposition had its delegates nominated in the supervisory bodies, in the supervisory bodies, in the audit bodies, because they are bodies that actually control the functioning of certain state institutions, or funds, etc. This practice has changed. And as a former minister, I must say that I even had the courage to appoint the director of the Social Democrat, the director of the stud in Písek, an existing senator, because I think he is an expert who really understands the issue that he is in charge of today, and I was not afraid of the responsibility. So if you want to discuss these issues, I'm prepared not in the office, but to openly discuss what nominations I made to be specific and what happens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u23	Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u24	The Minister is a young man, I have patience with young people. He's arguing with something I didn't say. That's unfair, Minister! So you act like an old-fashioned politician: "The opponent didn't say that, but I'm gonna beat him over the head and disprove that sentence he didn't say. " I didn't criticize the fact that, for example, you're sending members of the government. I criticized the fact that you rejected this practice with the fact that you're different and better. And I even said directly that I think it's better that the minister does it himself, the authority alone, and he's not hiding behind any committee. And the actions speak for everyone. I was talking about traffic because I was sitting there. For example, when the board of directors of the SŽDC didn't do what I asked them to do, and it just so happens that your party's nominee did, I left it there. And by any chance, colleagues who were members of my political party and who did not do so were dismissed regardless of political affiliation. And there were seven or five or seven members in that SŽDC and at least two seats for the opposition in the Supervisory Board. Both the representatives of your party and the representatives of the Czech Social Democratic Party were there. So you can write it down, I'll tell you what it was like when I was the minister. And when I made the trade, the most weakened were the nominees who were nominated by my political party. So, for the third time, you haven't answered my question, why are you saying something different about how you're not going to send those politicians in there - do you want me to read you from your government statement, what did you put in there yourself? I'll read it to you if you've forgotten. So please don't mess with what I didn't say. Answer the questions I've asked, not the ones you ask yourself, and then you make me into someone. We had a debate here a year ago, another one about the former director of the Odry basin - so he was your party colleague who said, "And he was an MP! And for the ODS!" And I was saying at the time that each of us would ever be a former MP and that it should not be any less in his career if he could handle the tasks that the Minister of Agriculture would entrust him with. And I said three times that I'm not questioning the quality of these people. But speaking of how these regions nominate people, that's what I understand. Are you telling me that Michal Hašek, the South Moravian Governor, has nominated the chair of the KDU-ČSL district organization for the Supervisory Board of the Moravia basin? I'm supposed to believe that? It's possible, but it doesn't seem very likely. And it's probably not the South Moravian Region's representative who lives in the Moravian-Silesian Region. I don't think so. That way, he won't even be in charge of the issue. But don't worry, he's been taken care of, the new coalition in Opava has also found him a place, and he's already the head of the city company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u25	I will ask if the Minister - yes, he wishes to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u26	Thank you. I will answer specifically. Mr. Governor of the South Moravian Region nominated his deputy to the Supervisory Board, so there is a representative for the South Moravian Region. And the person you're referring to here -- he's a man who has a technical engineering education and he's in water construction. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u27	Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u28	Just two more sentences. I am not proposing a resolution. I think everyone could have taken what they wanted out of the debate. I didn't want this, but, well, this expert with a construction technical education was chosen by the new coalition in Opava as director of the seniors' pension. This is how the selection of independent experts with their qualifications works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u29	I'm still the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u30	Dear Member, I really do not have any competence to interfere in the matters of the statutory city of Opava, nor do I have any influence on it in any way, so I hear the information you gave today for the first time. It's new information to me. If that is what your colleagues in Opava have decided, it is their competence. I confess that from the discussion that has been held here, I must say - again I am returning to the fact that I specifically answered your questions, which you asked about in the letter. I thank you for the initiative you brought to that supervisory board member who is supposed to represent the counterparty. I'll check it out and thank you for these particular suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u31	Since there's no motion for a resolution, I'm done negotiating... [[Objection.]] I'm sorry, until the debate? Please, Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak in the context of this interpelation, but I waited for it to be concluded precisely so that there would be room for a substantive solution to the question raised by the President of the Civic Democratic Party Membership Zbyněk Stanjura, and for the Minister of Agriculture's reply. My point is that my speech in this debate concerns what Mr Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned at the outset of his intervention. That is, under what conditions of interpelation in the Chamber of Deputies is taking place. Whether it is written, i.e. those we are discussing now, and I say this from this point, especially for any viewers who will watch the record from this meeting sometime at night and feel that this House of Deputies is not doing anything again, Members are not doing their homework, because as soon as possible there will be a break by 11 o'clock, because there will be nothing to discuss. And the public criticism will turn towards the Members, and so I want to explain to these potential viewers that we have two types of interpelling. The first type - written interpelations take place on Thursday under the Rules of Procedure Act, if it is Thursday, from 9 to 11 o'clock, written interpelations take place. These are done by giving the Member the right to ask questions about more complex matters to the minister concerned, who will reply in writing within the prescribed time limit. If the Minister responds that the Member is not satisfied, the Member concerned will turn to the Chamber of Deputies and wants the House to share his dissatisfaction with the reply and can comment on it and can lead the relevant Minister to responsibility and remedy the matter. There are oral interpelations this afternoon on Thursday. These are such an up-to-date when Members are to ask what has happened - or "have" - they may, in particular, ask what has happened now, so that they can simply respond to what the citizens are asking and convey the answers of government officials, ministers. Last time there was an interpellation, there was almost no one here. I must say that he was here at the oral after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-after-of-the-hour-of-the-year-of-the-year-day-of-the-year-day-of-the-year-of-the-year-year-day-of-the-year-year-day-of-the-year-year-day-of-day-day-day-of-day-day-day-day-of-the-government coalitions, especially the Prime Minister, who couldn't make order. In the afternoon of the same Thursday, I asked him how he would handle the order in his oral interview. I've been told he will. In my opinion, the Prime Minister has really slammed the table, arranged order, and the result is all these empty ministerial chairs behind me. [[He's pointing.]] Except for one at the moment. Minister Jurečka. On two. [[Present Minister Herman.]] So, first of all, it's saying what's going on in the intercession, about the Prime Minister's authority. It's zero. Let us verify that, please, on how much and often it hits the table and how much and seriously individual ministers take this blow to the table. What this says about the members of the government who are repeatedly called upon when they no longer obey the Prime Minister is really the problem of his authority. But even the House doesn't know much about it, because it keeps calling on ministers to do their jobs. The answer to that question is what the Prime Minister's answer is. Thus, that last week, for example, the first Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, who is a very often interppelated person, follows the logic of the matter, because he is responsible for a resort that is very serious and important, so this minister and the First Vice-President of the Government Andrej Babiš hardly attends oral interpelation at all. He tells the TV that he's being asked nonsense questions about him and that he has better work to do or better things to do. And then we see that the better things to do is handing out doughnuts somewhere in a subway or subway under the silent approval of the Prime Minister, because I did not hear, except for such a caress, rather than reproaching that the Prime Minister was concerned that his first vice-chairman was campaigning at the time of the House's regular meeting, but he basically just slapped the Prime Minister in the media that he didn't like it that much, and that the waters closed. Zero effect. [[10.00 hours]] Then phase two, the first vice-president of the government improved his practices and sent some sort of picture to the media of his incapacity for work, and therefore he can't be here, he had then, he said, he wrote that he had some light pneumonia. So he had light pneumonia this morning, and he crossed it at night, because he might have been on some kind of meeting and said it was very important. In other words, Members and their questions, which basically, these questions, they convey to the public. We are given suggestions from the public, in which citizens from our electoral regions or from elsewhere invite us to ask what their problem is. We have the task of fulfilling this request, and we can ask in writing either as I explained or verbally, but both are actually falling completely into the void because the ministers deliberately do not come here. They don't just fall into line, they don't like that they have to answer to the microphone publicly, because this public answer means that they can also be caught by the word that it can be checked whether any argument they have made is true or not, and they're basically afraid to go to this discipline and refuse to participate. She doesn't just go to work. Minister Babiš had "we work" as his main motto, so he simply gives his empty chair, which is empty most of the time, the answer to the question of how much he works, absolutely reliably. And one last thing. If we're talking about what it really doesn't make sense for us to talk about on Thursday morning -- well, he doesn't come here, so what are we gonna do about it? We'll wait for Thursday afternoon, afternoon. For example, the Prime Minister will not be here today. I wanted to ask him for example. Why Secretary Marksová Tominová spends CZK 400 million on some gender policy. I wanted to ask him what it meant that yesterday the whole coalition, representatives of three political parties, KDU-ČSL, social democracy and YES, interpreted which one of them is more maligned by the tobacco lobby actually as a result of last night's anti-smoking vote, and these questions that are up-to-date and hot, in a week they won't be so up-to-date and hot, because they're just gonna be beaten by something else, through these dust oblivion, and we're going to go through the swamp around the black rocks. I don't like this. And the only solution that I have drawn for myself, and which I want to offer to those Members who are interested in this, is this: because ministers don't come here to oral or written interpelations, so please all of you who have prepared the interpelation, you have questions and you want to ask them, we will have to use the only option, always at the beginning of the meeting to propose this interpelation as a special point. There's basically an unlimited opportunity for us to perform, so we can tell you what the problem is. Of course, the government coalition will reject this point, but the interpelation, at least the subject will come up. I think that this procedure could lead to at least a part of the government coalition recovering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u33	Thank you, too. If no one else... I'm still the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u34	Thank you. I'd just like to say for the sake of correctness here, because there's something about Mr. Rozšafné.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u35	Sorry. Colleagues on the left, please calm down, respectively. colleague from right to left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u36	A colleague from the right, who is now a colleague on the left. I would just like to state, for the sake of correctness, because Mr Rozšafný has been heard here, as if the only criterion here is that he is a member of the KDU-ČSL, his membership of the Supervisory Board. I had it checked very quickly. I just want to make it clear what his professional competence is. Secondary industrial school of construction, field of water management construction, University of Agriculture, field of melioration. A person who has worked for years in the field of water management, design activity, flood protection, including melioration equipment. That's why this guy's on the board of supervisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u37	I don't see any more applications. Since the motion for a resolution has not been made, I am ending the discussion of this interpelation and we will continue. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Stanjura to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš on tax collection. It's press 775. The hearing was suspended until the Minister of Finance was present. He is not here, he is excused, therefore the condition lasts and the interpelation is interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Marek Ženíšek to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on China's growing influence on the Czech Republic, press 779, which was interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, which is not there, therefore the condition persists and the interpelation is interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Jana Fischerová to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová on long-awaited conceptual material National plan for teaching foreign languages for the next period, which is print 803. I am opening the debate and asking whether Mrs Fischerová wants to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor, but by the absence of the Minister, I, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure and as has already been done here, so I call for her presence and interruption of this interpelation due to her absence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u39	There is therefore a proposal to interrupt this interpelation until the Minister's presence. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 182 vote. It's registered 103, for 82, against 1. The motion was accepted and the interpellation was interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Miroslava Němcová to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China and his delegation in the Czech Republic, press 813. The Prime Minister is excused, I am opening up a debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u40	Thank you for the floor. I was here a while ago talking quite extensively about what I think is going on, how the interpelations are going on, and I can't resign from talking to empty lines behind me here, and the interpelation would be like a puppet theater where the main ones wouldn't be here and they couldn't answer me, so I'm asking for an interruption of this interpellation, even though I'm aware that this topic will grow older two months ago in the next month, and it's terribly unfortunate that such important things will not even get to the Chamber of Deputies. I am very sorry, I think that is the Prime Minister's intention and the intention of those who want to avoid the most pressing questions. This is also indicative of their approach to the work of the Member, the work of the Minister and of a member of the Government, but also of a personal nature. I think they're cowardly. I request that this interpellation be discontinued.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u41	Yes, that's a procedural proposal. As much as I have Mr Kudela's factual remark here... He's downloading. That was just an accident. Now, then, we will vote on the proposal by Mrs Němcová to interrupt this interpelation until the Prime Minister's presence. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 183. It's logged in 104, for 64, against 10. This proposal was adopted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová in the case of foster care in the Czech Republic, print 814. Madam Secretary is excused, I am opening up a debate. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not delay any further, because everything has been told by my previous speakers about attendance and the importance of interpellation, so I too request that we interrupt the discussion of this interpelation into the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u43	Yes, we will decide that by the vote that I started. Who agrees to interrupt this interpelation until the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs? Who's against it? It's a 184 vote. It's registered 105, 80, no one. The motion was accepted. [[10.10 hours]] Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Markéta Adamová to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec in the matter of police intervention on European Street, press 815. The Minister is excused. I'm opening the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have no choice but to ask you to interrupt this interpellation into his presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u45	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to interrupt this interpelation until the Minister of the Interior is present. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 185, registered 104, for 76, against 2. This proposal was accepted and the interpellation was interrupted. The last interview is the interpelation of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. But Mrs Chalánková is excused, so this interpelation will not be discussed. We've exhausted point 231 and I'm interrupting the House meeting by 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-001-231.u46	Madam, honourable Members, Minister, we will continue on the agenda. I would remind you that, after the finished or interrupted point 231, we have firmly classified points 210, print 643, paragraph 211, print 784, paragraph 209, paragraph 595, and paragraph 203, this is House document 3633. We would then focus on items from the first and second reading block, or on items from the report block, proposals and more. I'm asking if anyone is applying to change the program at this point. I don't see anyone, which is why we can launch item 210 under the approved agenda. I shall make an apology before him to Mr David Kasal, who apologizes from 9.00 to 11.30 for work reasons. Item
