ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 169/1999 Coll., on the execution of prison sentences and amending certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 293/1993 Coll., on the performance of the binding, as amended /house print 588/ - first reading So now the Minister of Justice has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u2	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members, the first of the series of draft laws of the government that I will present to you today is the law amending the criminal code, the law on the execution of prison sentences and some other laws. Its aim is to change the system of external differentiation of prisons, where the current four basic types of prisons are to be reduced to types two - prisons with security and prisons with increased security. So basically, in today's system, inclusion in one of those four types of prisons is part of the decision to impose a sentence, the judge decides it, and so it's something - I don't want to say immutable, it can be changed, but it's very difficult to change. This is a remnant of the old concept of the execution of punishment at all or access to punishments as punishments, which primarily serve to make them uncomfortable, and therefore they - still - are in it to feel different degrees of sharpness of the prison. The new system, on the other hand, is related to our new prison concept, which focuses on trying to integrate the perpetrators back into society, and therefore the inclusion of a prisoner in a specific educational regime or security regime should also be a matter of his current behavior, his current conditions. For this reason, the three existing groups actually withdraw within the framework of the external differentiation into one and between them - they don't disappear, but in some form they stay inside the prisons - but among them is a fluent transfer of prisoners according to how they behave and how they are experienced in the execution of the penalty. It is something that corresponds to foreign trends, even a variant of the full abolition of external differentiation of prisons has been considered. We didn't want to go that far at this point. So we are going the way of gradual development and I consider it very necessary and consider it a prison expert, which I am not, they consider this very necessary if we really want to change something in our prison. I therefore ask you to support this very beneficial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mrs Marie Benešová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Pelikán here presented this new draft law of the government, which is amended by the Criminal Code, the Law on the Enforcement of Penalty and the Act on the Enforcement of Incarceration. I believe that this is indeed a modern concept. I'm just reminding you that I presented something similar in Rusnokův's government, and it went through the Senát pretty smoothly at the time. This is essentially based on the experience of Western Europeans, where this modern concept has already been applied, and it basically means and is expected to reduce the rate of recurrence and crime and better integration of prisoners into the normal environment after the execution of the sentence. I therefore recommend that this proposal be released for second reading and I recommend that it be further worked with it in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u5	Thank you. I am opening the debate and I have Mr Ondráček's application here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this House press was already here at the beginning of our parliamentary term, if you recall House press No. 46, and the government pulled him back and redesigned him. But basically, he's been preserved. I must say that I generally disagree with the fact that we have only two types of prisons, where in the first type of prison with security, virtually all of them would be convicted, with the exception of § 56 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) a proposal, i.e. sentenced to exceptional punishment, such as members of an organized criminal group or offenders convicted of a particularly serious crime, where a sentence of imprisonment would be imposed for at least eight years, as well as fugitives. Here it seems to be a reaction to our most famous fugitive Mr. Kajínek. This means, therefore, that in the first type of prison, a prison with a security guard, they would be serving a sentence of imprisonment of first-rate convictions, together with convictions for negligence crimes or, if you wish, offenses, but also with repeaters who make up more than two-thirds of all convicted. I fear that only internal differentiation of prisons to a low, medium and high degree of security will be insufficient. I don't think it's even right from a criminal point of view. The explanatory memorandum also does not indicate what is the estimate of how many persons will be in one or the other degree of detention in the prison with security. That, too, is a number we should be interested in. I therefore believe that the execution of prison sentences should be carried out differentiatedly, in at least three types of prisons, with supervision, supervision or increased security, which would de facto bring us back to the former differentiation of prison sentences and the wardens would decide on a regime for the execution of prison sentences. However, I understand the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to partially erase the courts that are currently deciding on the transfer of prisoners from one type of prison to another, but to leave everything to the warden, possibly. in the event of appeal to their Director-General, it is also not a system solution. More specifically, the material presented. Part One - Amendment to the Criminal Code. Nor is it clear in the explanatory report who and how will record that the convicted person has fled or attempted to flee from the execution of custody, execution of sentence or execution of the detention facility. How, then, will the court decide whether a sentenced person to serve a prison sentence in a security prison needs to be placed in a prison with increased security? Second point. In Article 57, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 Criminal Code - Transferring from prison with increased security to prison with security. I know the current amendment to § 57 para. 6 of the Penal Code, but I ask myself: are we not overreacting with the humanization of prisons, when we now propose that a sentenced person who has been sentenced to life imprisonment may file a motion for transfer to a security prison first - I say - after ten years in prison? This was not possible under the current adjustment. So imagine the perpetrator of any particularly serious crime that really got that special life sentence, and after ten years, you'll have him in prison with the first-rate offenders, if any. the perpetrators who committed an involuntary offense. Part Two - Change in the execution of prison sentences. The current Advisory Council is replaced by an advisory committee. It could say OK, cosmetic change of name, but won't it lead to further system escalation? I will now not evaluate the administrative technical deficiencies of the material presented, when e.g. is not logical in § 4 para. 6 Act to propose a deadline for submission of some reports by 30. 5. when the month of May has 31 days. And if they think by the end of the month, it should be 31. 5. Another illogicality of the text. Why is the internal breakdown of prisons with security newly conceived as § 12a, and not logically as § 8 or as § 8a? In this text, in paragraph 3, we will also find the wrong legal term "the kind of guilt." A steady legal term is a form of guilt. It is also worth mentioning the expected significant increase in administration in each prison, which is based on § 12a para. 4. In the explanatory report, I was literally amused by the text in section 3.4 of the Social Impact, which says that in the medium and long term, these measures should contribute to reducing the rate of recurrence of criminal behaviour of persons sentenced to prison. I'm telling you, they said they played him or the paper could take anything. The explanatory memorandum also states that, as a result of the proposal, a reduction in the number of judicial decisions on transfer to another type of prison can be expected. Yeah, well, that's pretty logical if you take it out to the courts and give it to the prisons, but the number of applications doesn't go down. And you know that because with one breath you add that you expect the need to increase the planned number of employees of the Directorate-General of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic by two persons, which represents an annual cost of more than 1.1 million. Crowns. I do not share the assumption of a more efficient spending of financial resources to secure the operation of prisons, since the conviction of a court in prisons with security will be placed by the Prison Service in a department in a particular prison already, according to the degree of risk of building security. On the contrary, I think that within a year or two you will come up with a request for funds for construction technical modifications in prisons, for the department of sentenced by the degree of classification. Even though you know that two-thirds of all convicts are recidivists, you are unable to present more accurate statistics on how many convicted persons will be at the level of security in a prison with security. Instead, you are making excuses for a number of external factors, such as: the overall crime rate, the number of convicted and convicted perpetrators, the criminal policy of the state and a number of others. But these are statistical data that are known, and you don't work with them. So how are you going to determine the degree of security of the prisons? End of závěr. You know, about a year ago, I was visiting the European Parliament, and when I saw the efficiency of work and what they were dealing with instead of solving the problems of this company, I was very disappointed. I feel the same way now. Instead of working to recodify criminal law, i.e. the Code of Criminal Procedure, or the Law of Experts and Interpreters, you're presenting material that doesn't give a damn about a common citizen, and his life isn't gonna make it any easier. I know you're probably going to push this House press through the coalition's power, but personally, I don't think you've been showing off, Minister. I think the prison service and the execution of punishment have many other problems. You have dozens of lawsuits in front of you for not paying off the hours and overtime of the members of the Prison Service and there are threats to you: 91 members of the Kynšperk prison above Ohří, 176 members of the Pilsen prison in Borech, 77 members from Prague Pankrác, 86 members in Horní Slavkov and I could continue this way. Mr. Secretary, this material is not good, and I'm making a motion to redo it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u7	It is therefore a proposal to return the petitioner to the recast. Yes, thank you. Please, Madame Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u8	Mr President, dear colleagues, this is an issue that I have been dealing with in the long run, and I therefore think that I have the right to say something about it, and, of course, as the former Minister of Justice, I have prepared this material. However, I thought that this would be part of a fundamental reform that would be negotiated with the Constitutional Court, whose findings in the mid-1990s clearly state that the punishment - and defining the punishment and the way in which it was executed - was decided logically only by the criminal court. In this sense, I have also dealt with constitutional judges, and it was clear to me that the negotiations would not be quite easy, even though quite a lot of time has passed since this finding saw the light of the world, and it has actually prevented what is being proposed here, that the method of execution of prison imprisonment in various prisons, or with a different secure form of security and a different strict regime - only to illustrate those of you who do not have this issue completely in their finger, also why they should have: there is a huge difference between prisons with supervision, where they have both been sentenced and partially free movement, with supervision, and prisons with increased security, where they practically remain locked in a number of cases all day in a cell, except for one hour. [[with emphasis]] [[with emphasis]] So in this respect, the court really decides the kind of punishment. And if we don't have an outdated Constitutional Court finding, and I've missed this, that explanation, and I'd like to ask the Minister how it is. If there was a meeting going on and if we can really count on it not to be declared unconstitutional. That we respected the findings of the Constitutional Court. So that's my first question. Second. Criminal policy requires, and we had it in a programming statement, and it also belongs to the pillars of our coalition program, the fight against corruption. Here we create a certain high risk potential in deciding how to execute the most drastic punishment in the Czech Republic, a prison sentence if it should be entrusted to the competence of the Monocratic Authority, which is undoubtedly the Director. So when I got it on the table from the CEO, back then it was CEO Dohnal, now it's CEO Came up, I really blew it off the table saying, "Never, as long as I'm Minister of Justice." This is not how I would want the body to decide, even if there is an advisory body in its back, about who will be included. Plus, I've read it, and I know it from prison statistics that we currently have about 22,000 sentenced to an unconditional sentence in prison, a few will still be waiting for the performance, and I assume that the state will be in a state before the amnesty in 2013. In other words, there will be problems with the overcrowding of prisons so that convictions will be placed where there will be time off. Not where security and reeducation are appropriate, and there are specialized programs, but where they just fit in. And, of course, this risk isn't so much in court. I know very well the pitfalls, as well as my fellow Member, Mrs Benešová, of the long sometimes decision-making and the uneven decision-making of the courts, in the sense that some courts are more benevolent, others are stricter when it comes to conditional dismissal. But it should be all the more warning to us that the executives, in addition to the wardens who want to save their jobs, and their appeal position as CEO will ensure that the kind of prison sentence, virtually. The execution of the prison sentence, will it really be carried out in the best prison in terms of reducing the relapse of the convicted? I don't believe that at all, and it contradicts all the criminological knowledge. The recession is between 50 and 70 percent in our country, which is repeatedly confirmed by research, with the fact that the lowest relapse, between 30 and 40, concerns alternative sanctions, a maximum of 50 to 70 percent of the prison sentence. I am aware that this is indeed a very difficult task and that the solution is not simple and one-track. But to circumvent the Constitutional Court's finding by allowing the courts to rule on 10 percent of those who are already very often legally unable to get a different type of prison than a prison with increased security, see exceptional penalties, that does not seem to me to be the optimal solution. That may be a smart and tactical ad hoc solution, but it's nonsystemic. So I would recommend continuing the trend that has already been here and supported twice by my detailed report as well as by the Working Party of the Criminal Law Legislative Council, which drew attention to all these pitfalls, so the Ministry of Justice has them at its disposal, and considers it unacceptable precisely the moment when it would actually decide on the kind of punishment, if I take it a little bit in the broader sense of the word, one body which would be the director of the relevant prison, draws attention to all these risks, and recommends that consideration be given either to fundamental reform, to abolishing all differentiation groups, to entrust this decision to the Council, which would, however, have the decisive power, such as in many other Western European countries and Scandinavian countries, those studies have the Ministry of Justice also available, or have left the situation as it is. Of course, I'm more in favour of the reform, and I assumed it would happen. If this is also presented as a first step in the reform, I have spoken with a number of prison directors and also the Directorate-General as a minister, and I have made this clear to myself, which I will share with you. It is basically for a few years, rather five and ten, a stage in which something will be tested. Maybe it'll work, maybe it won't. And that is still in a constitutionally not entirely conformal environment. So, as an expert who has dealt with this issue in the long term, I recommend that this proposal return to recast, either abolishing all differentiation groups, requiring prior consultation with relevant experts on the criminal law of the Constitutional Court, who could give an opinion in this respect before the law at all is processed, by a vote that will be free, so we will see how it turns out. And I don't think it would be a disaster if it turned out to be another reading. Then I will do my utmost to ensure that, within the framework of the amendments, the very important provisions are put there, which are the competence to decide on the transfer of convicted persons, virtually. on the one hand, the execution of prison sentences in certain prisons, and then their relocation, so that it is entrusted to the board of experts, where the director of the prison will, of course, play a major role, but he will not be there alone. And as a repair institution, the Ministry might as well be here. In some countries, they have such a department and our Department of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, I think it is expanding, will have very important competences in connection with electronic bracelets, which, as we all hope, will be competing as soon as possible, or I do not think that this task will be successful. [[15.20 hours]] I am aware that some may already consider this step as the first step in prison reform in implementing changes in prison. So I warn you once again, for the last time, that I fear that it will only address the acute shortage of places in overcrowded prisons, and that it will have no impact on the reduction of relapse, no impact on the resocialisation of the convicted. And I certainly do not think that it would remove any slowness of the courts, which in those relevant localities are already relatively sufficiently equipped practically and personally to proceed at a pace that corresponds. It's gotten better lately. So I don't consider this argument to be crucial either. I think he's a bit of a deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u9	Thank you, Madame. Before I give the floor to Mr Benda, there is a factual remark from Mr Blažek. And he's got two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on Professor Válková. It's all very well said again, but I must point out that, after all, prisoners are already persons who have been convicted of some crime, i.e. they've done something. And while I have here the Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Justice and one other former Minister of Justice, I would like to point out that many years of practice have been tolerated here, when they have been prosecuted, i.e. People de iure innocent, put on purpose on the other side of the Republic, so that everyone can have it far away. So let's talk about the convicts now, but let's not leave out those who are being held in ties unconstitutionally and illegally, and the state has kept silent. As far as who decides. So I just remembered how interesting this practice is sometimes. When the former captain Rath was prosecuted, with whom I emphasized, I never spoke, and we never knew each other at all, the situation here was such that he was on purpose, on purpose, in the Litoměřice prison. At the time, it had to be me who instructed him to be transferred to the prison in Ruzyn, so that the family wouldn't be 50 km away, but to have it almost around the corner. Why do I say that? This is why I say this - let's expand the debate and talk about the de iure of the innocents, who unfortunately have not been given a dent in the practice so far, and it is a tragedy and a disgrace to this state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u11	I do not see any further factual remarks, so Mr Marek Benda has the floor with a proper application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said in the words of some of my previous speakers, so I will try to be quite brief. I must say, I was rather surprised that after two years of working on this material, the mountain gave birth to a mouse, in simple terms. Instead of coming up with something more fundamental, we actually have a presentation before us that Mrs. Exministra Benešová once gave here. It's almost the same thing. Instead of really trying to figure something out - and I quite agree with the idea that it would be wise for us to leave the internal differentiation of prisons to the directors and not have to be decided by the courts. But then the material comes to me after two years of work somewhat unconceptional and somewhat too little worked on it. To point out some small examples, except what has already been said. It's already been pointed out here whether there's a security guard or an increased security guard and in what cases there's a differentiation. If you look - with increased security to include a perpetrator who has been subject to an exceptional sentence or a prison sentence in the course of at least eight years... Which, of course, are many property crimes. If Mr. Exchequer and Exmiss Rath have been remembered here today, he's also been given more than eight years. And do we really consider it meaningful to try these types of property crimes, regardless of my wanting to defend them, to put them in high-security prisons? This is meant to be really for people who are somehow dangerous to themselves, to their surroundings, to society, but not to those who simply deserve a high sentence because they have stolen too much. I don't see any particular sense in putting them in a high-security prison. And there would be many other things like that in my opinion. For me, too, this advisory committee, Section 4 of the Act, is creating a huge doubt about the execution of prison sentences. I'm not saying there couldn't be an advisory board of the warden. I'm not saying that it wouldn't make any sense if we actually allowed outsiders in some form, representatives proposed by local authorities, for example, who have a connection to the prison. I understand that these are things where some human element can be presented, it can be shown, it makes sense. For example, various organizations that are engaged in working with prisoners, respectively. then with the prisoners released. It would make sense for them to be represented. But that's the way it's going to be on a proposal from the warden... He probably can't even name himself, but it'll always be on a proposal from the warden. Honestly, we know how this works. It's gonna look like it's gonna be the employees of other prisons. It won't be an employee directly to the prison or prison service, but an employee in some way connected to other prisons who will keep an eye on each other like this. It seems to me that it makes no sense at all to have an advisory board built up like this. On top of that, the advisory committee, which has no competence, is not quite clear on what it is to say, if for example. expressing or not expressing to this reclassification. At the same time, it is to report every year to the Directorate-General for Prison Services in writing on the Commission's activities for the previous year by 31 March. Can anyone please imagine what this absolutely formal material is going to be? Completely senseless character, where the Director General of Prison Service will send himself every year from those, I don't know how many we have, out of the 30 prisons 30 reports about it - the commission met seven times, they and you missed, talked about what the warden gave her. Maybe somewhere it'll be what they've come up with. I think it's such a useless bureaucracy. And the way it's made up is just inside that prison, designing a prison warden who doesn't bring any outside view, it's like there's somebody out there who's watching the warden - I don't know if he's checking or a little bit. It creates the idea that this someone is still somehow responsible for the Directorate-General. But in fact, it's just gonna be completely bureaucratic and useless organs. So if we were to go this way, and if the proposal is to be directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee, I would want us to either create something meaningful or cancel it. To create only organs for the organs, it seems completely unnecessary to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u13	So, Mr Benda was the last member of the debate. If there are no further applications, I am done with the debate. I'll ask the Minister, if any. the rapporteur, if she wishes to hear the final words. The Minister does, so you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u14	Thank you. Only a brief response, particularly with regard to the issue of constitutionality. I confess that I am a little embarrassed if I am urged to overcome the Constitutional Court's findings of the mid-1990s, or so. to negotiate with the Constitutional Court. I've read the Constitution, not many times, but so far, I haven't found anything on the pre-negotiation. On the contrary, I found something about the Constitutional Court deciding on defined matters. And just as I honor the independence of the ordinary court and do not go with it to pre-negotiate any decisions, so with permission I also honor the independence of the Constitutional Court and also do not go with it to pre-negotiate matters. And I believe the constitutional judges are confident enough that if I happen to be there, they'll run me all the way to the edge of Brno, and they'll do exactly what they should do. [[15.30 hours]] That means the Constitutional Court will comment on the matter if it is brought before it. And we have good reason to believe that there is no unconstitutionality. After all, what Professor Válková quoted was actually contained in the concept prepared by the Working Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government. However, the Government's Legislative Council itself did not take these arguments into its opinion because it did not agree with them. This thing is pretty simple. The 1994 decision, which, by the way, was a completely different composition of the Constitutional Court than it is today, was based on a completely different legal condition. It was based on the state of the court's decision on primary inclusion and therefore on what the Constitutional Court had to say. The warden then had the authority to change the court's decision, which really sounds weird. On the other hand, and more importantly, at that time, the four different types actually showed significant differences in terms of the rights of the convicted. In terms of how often visits can be received, how often a package can be received, and other very important rights for prisoners. This is precisely what led the Constitutional Court to conclude that this classification of the individual type also contains elements of sanctions, i.e. the quality of the penalty, and for this reason the court should decide. However, in the meantime, there has been a settlement in this regard, and all these rights are the same today in all the three types that we want to unite. So this problem has passed away. After all, I'm reminding you that there's no differentiation in teens anymore, and no one in terms of... well, it's internal. Yes, no external. [[Response to the comment of the War Member from the bench.]] I hear it, Professor, it's a good point, yes, the inner one is applied, but the outer one, I mean, it doesn't apply, and no one feels unconstitutional either. At the same time, we believe that the corruption risk at the warden's prison is significantly lower than that of the judge. We know that there is a corruption risk for judges both in the area of decision-making on conditional release and in the assignment of prisoners, especially because the judge here decides something that does not affect him. He thinks of it as a bagel, 'cause he's got a lot on his plate. To give you an idea, this way we'll assign several thousand people every year. And that decision will have no consequences for him. On the other hand, the warden is someone responsible for the internal order, security and functioning of the prison. This means that if he misplaces the prisoner, it will probably result in the prisoner's escape or, at least, some discipline problems. And that's the trouble that the warden is responsible for. So he has this natural incentive to make the right decisions. Our negative experience with such shared competences, in quotation marks, in cases where we are trying to introduce the so-called. parole councils, which are similar to what we're proposing right now, which are trying to select prisoners for parole and prepare some program that they're going to have to do after the parole. And unfortunately, we meet with judges who ignore the work of these commissions, although they are very carefully preparing the prisoners for the situation for a number of weeks, they are discussing the program with him. And then comes the judge who says, "I don't care at all." And either he's rejecting the proposals, or they're okay with it, but he doesn't put in the programs, etc. So we believe that really dealing with this matter inside that prison with the necessary guarantees, which are there, on the one hand, in the advisory committee and, on the other hand, in the possibility of appeal to the Director-General, is much better. I must say that we are indeed one of the last countries to maintain such an external differentiation of punishment. In addition to us, as far as I know, it is only from the relevant states of Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. And it's just some residue of a really old concept. It still smells like the four correctional groups. And I hope we take that step away from him. If, in particular, my honourable colleague, Mr Benda, then had some more detailed comments, I think that is something that we can certainly talk about in the Constitutional Legal Committee. For this, however, you need to release this law by first reading. And just one last little remark. We haven't done it in two years - he's been here for three quarters of a year. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u15	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur does not ask for the final word. In that case, we will vote. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. And since there has been a proposal from Mr Ondráček to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, we will first vote on this proposal. The motion to dismiss, if I listened correctly, didn't fall. We will therefore vote on the proposal for recovery. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees to return this proposal to the plaintiff, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 434 vote, 163 for 27 against 75. The motion was not accepted. That way, we will deal with the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. From the Organizing Committee, there is a proposal for the Guarantee Committee to be the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees with the command of the IDA as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? It's a 435 vote, 163 logged in, for 141, against no one. This proposal was adopted, so the Guarantee Committee is the Constitutional Legal Committee. There are no other suggestions for the commandment. I'm gonna ask if anyone's suggesting from the diaper? ano, Mrs Černochová, then Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Sub-Committee on Prisons is working under the Security Committee, I propose the commandment to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-008-057.u17	Yes, Mrs Válková has the same proposal. Yes. There are no other proposals, so we will be voting on the Security Committee's commandments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 436, it's registered 163, for 142, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have ordered the Guarantee Committee of the Constitutional Law and the Security Committee. There have been no other voting proposals, so I am ending the discussion of paragraph 57. [[15.40 hours]] In paragraph 58, which I have opened, we shall discuss:
