ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u1	113. Mr Petr Fiala's proposal, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Adolf Beznoska and others for the issue of the Act repealing Act No. 16/1993 Coll., on Road Tax, as amended /house print 557/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 557/1. I now ask that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u2	Thank you for the floor. We will now test the right-wing views of the members of the ANO movement. I think now's the time. The proposal's been here quite a long time. It was distributed to Members on 23 July last year and is very simple. He's only got two articles. We would have to change one, which is effective from 1 January 2016, which we certainly will not be able to do. We are simply proposing to abolish one complicated, bureaucratic tax that has no great significance for state revenue. When you look - I think yesterday or the day before proudly in the press release the Ministry of Finance announced the results of the state's management in the first four months, so look: we pay taxes as never, especially I don't know why excise duty is rising from tobacco, I think by four billion against last year's first four months. The tax on employees' dependent activities is increasing. Corporate tax is growing because the economy is growing and companies are doing well. And that amount is much higher than the annual road tax yield, which is sometimes five billion, sometimes five and a half, it's never been over six billion. So it's a fairly simple bill. Over a year ago, I've been intersecting the Minister of Finance. He provided me with relatively detailed information on how many employees in financial offices are dedicated to which particular tax and also how many taxpayers are. The road tax was paid in 2013 by 638 employees of the Financial Administration. 638. Dani of corporate persons, who has multiples but more than doubles, so let's say that about 20 times the higher yield is not paid by 20 times the number of employees, but only twice the number of employees. Dani of corporate entities was engaged in this year 2013 by 1,309 employees of the Financial Administration. If we look a year later, those numbers are very similar. In 2014, the corporation tax was paid to 1,332 employees of the Financial Administration and Road Tax 606. The returns were very similar. What is very interesting, and this should interest us, when we think about whether or not we will continue to collect the tax, it is the total number of taxpayers of that particular tax. This is ill-readable, but there were 830 thousand taxpayers - natural persons and 243 thousand taxpayers - legal persons in 2013 with road tax. Overall, we have, or we had in 2013, these numbers are still similar - 1 million 75 thousand taxpayers, and the yield is five billion. So the average return on one taxpayer is CZK 5,000 a year, and it's one million tax returns a year. And since this is usually paid quarterly, it is four million payments a year, which must be recorded not only by those employees, those over six hundred employees of the Financial Administration, but by a million taxpayers. Now, let's think out loud ourselves, whether a million taxpayers, hundreds of employees, yield five thousand per taxpayer, i.e. five billion a year, and four million payments, if it's worth it when we have over 800 billion tax revenues a year. In our opinion, it's not worth it. It's useless, it's too much trouble. If there's anything we want to do to relieve our businessmen, let's make them feel better about this. The state budget will deal with this seamlessly, so it will be a very simple measure. The government's position says it's actually a tax that doesn't end up in the state budget, but it ends up in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So I'm gonna ask someone, maybe the Minister of the Environment said today that he was saving a hundred billion traffic buildings, someone from the government, to introduce you to the approved budget of the SFDI and to the actual drawdown. And let's be fair, over the last ten years, when different coalitions and different governments have ruled here, I can't even count how many have been since 2006 - one, two, three, four, five, maybe six governments - and almost always the undrawn money has been greater than the five billion. That means the problem of drawing wasn't that there was a lack of money, but it's a different problem. We'll talk about that on Thursday. [[18.40 hours]] Then I want to remind you of what businessmen who need a passenger or a truck to do their business are paying off the road tax these days. It's a toll or a road sign. It's an excise duty on fuel that's not small, it's also mandatory legal insurance, so it's paid by car owners who need it for their business in at least three other cases, and for that we have a road tax. So I think that because the economy is going well, the taxpayers are taking record money into the state budget, the amount is relatively small, the government will undoubtedly manage it, we can cancel it. I believe that you will support this proposal, especially those who do not apply to the left, but I think that even left-wing colleagues could support it, because, by the way, today we had the Health Minister's points when you canceled five billion for medical fees, so it was no problem. This is where the government's position came out, so the five billion is likely to collapse public finances in the Czech Republic. And once again, I repeat the number: yield of five billion, million tax returns a year, four million payments a year. It's really not worth it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr František Laudát. Friends, friends, let's get the newsletters. Please, which of the Members, apparently the Economic Committee... Mr Votava is actively reporting, but I have to put this to a vote. If that's okay with you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u4	I'm actively reporting out of desperation, Mr Vice-President, when there's no colleague here, even though I just saw him here. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I will take this step when I have, of course, signed up for a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u5	Thank you. There is nothing more beautiful than seeing an active MP. [[Mr. Votava thanks you.]] We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading. Mr František Laudát is not present and I suggest that Mr Václav Votava become a Member for first reading. First of all, I would like you all to sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote. Whoever is the rapporteur to Mr Václav Votava for a change, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 414 vote. 116 Members and Members are registered, for 113, against none. The motion was accepted. Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur Václav Votava for his opening words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I think I will no longer comment as rapporteur or alternate rapporteur. I think Mr. Speaker in the person of colleague Stanjura said that enough, I think. Yes, it's a simple proposal, but I think, even if it's simple, it has far-reaching consequences, or not that simple consequences. I could cross over if there's no problem with that right now to my performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u7	A little problem would be with that. First of all, I have to open a general debate, so I am opening it now, and Mr Václav Votava is the first to come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u8	Thank you for your word. So now it's a different role. It is clear that the Civil Democratic Party has embarked on a proposal to abolish certain taxes. So now we're discussing a road tax suspension. We have a proposal here in the House, or at least a proposal has been made to abolish the property acquisition tax. Am I saying that right? Yes, a colleague nods his head, so that's true. I think we really need to consider at least two basic aspects. Firstly, what will be the budgetary impact. Yes, my colleague Stanjura correctly said here on the microphone that the abolition of this tax would be a loss of five billion, a loss for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. If I go back to the real estate tax, it's almost ten billion, so if we add it up, it's already 15 billion. So a billion here, a billion there. Well, I guess it's not that simple. It is simply an impact on the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's budget, and six billion are not so insignificant money or entirely small money. The second aspect is certainly whether this repeal of the Road Tax Act is in accordance with European law. And I believe, and of course, it is also stated in the Government's position that this is not in accordance with European law. Because we are obliged to transform certain directives into our legislation and tax, and in this case there would certainly be a breach. Again, I refer to the Government's position, which is therefore disagreeable, and I agree with this position. In its opinion, the government also states that the repeal of the law is essentially lacking any reflection in other legislation. That's also true. It lists at least eight other laws that would have to be adapted. So if we were to break this law, I'm sure there would be some kind of significant collision here, and it wouldn't be possible at all. For that reason, I will not quote the entire government's position here, I'm sure you all have them, I propose that you reject this bill, the law of Parliament, at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm filing a motion to dismiss the motion. Another duly signed up for the general debate is the Member - Sorry. First of all, the applicant was registered. I'm sorry. Okay. He does not wish to exercise his right of priority, so Mr kolovratník is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u10	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. In my speech, I will take the view and the rapporteur's proposal, as well as my fellow speaker, that is to say, a motion for rejection. I, with all due respect and in my collegiateness to Zbyněk Stanjur, whom I always say, and you know that I respect him as a representative of the opposition, and in our opinion we often agree, so now I honestly say that I do not come out of surprise and frankly I am very surprised. I think that proposing a five-to-six-billion blackout from SFDI's revenue, I think that's really risky and very unthinkable. I don't know why the promoter is proposing such a blackout. And let me just remind you of the relatively recent debate we had here in the amendment to the SFDI Act on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. It was some of the ODS colleagues who suggested that we expand the possibilities that SFDI finances. Let's take a look at cities, municipalities, local communications and so on. Then we were looking for a compromise. So when I write it down, the representatives of one party at one point tell SFDI to fund more actions, and a little later they come up with it to make less profits. Excuse me, colleagues, I really don't understand. [[18.50 hours]] There have also been arguments that the selection is administratively difficult, complex, that the cost of tax collection is. So please, my colleague, we are in the 21st century, so if the collection of any tax, any tax, inefficient, then let's have fun and look for ways to opt for electronization, how to automate it, how to look for ways to make that choice better. You, my fellow opponents, must agree with me on this, and I believe that you will not shout at me in the same way as you did at the Economic Committee. I clearly cannot agree with the arguments, the proposals. I'm thinking maybe another supportive statement about why we shouldn't accept it. After all, anyone who acquires a vehicle for business purposes is a different regime from a private one. You who deal with accounting and taxing, so you will know this vehicle you can write off from costs, work with VAT deduction etc. etc., so the vehicle is just in a different mode. And also from that title, also from that title, the vehicle operator then participates in the budget in the form of this tax, i.e. motor vehicle tax indirectly. If that's the amount - I suspect that in the explanatory report it's 1200 to 2500 CZK per year, personally it doesn't strike me as the amount of the individual. But I will return to the original argument. Five to six billion outages from SFDI's income are certainly unacceptable to me, and I'm here to formally propose rejecting this law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u12	I must say that it is a good thing that I have let my colleague Mr Kolovratník go, because that is why I can respond at once. I'll try to explain, hope I'm successful. Certainly not the decisive income of SFDI 5 billion from road tax. The key resources at this point are two - European money, and thanks to your ministers you will not be able to draw much, or on things that do not have priority when we find them, and the second is a contribution from the state budget. The bill is not designed to cost SFDI 5 billion and all other expenses will be retained by the state. It's really not like that. The interpretation, Mr Kolovratník through Mr President, is wrong. We don't really mean that, and I believe you'll understand that we don't mean that. I was impressed by the pun of the chairman of the budget committee, "billion to a billion." Too bad he doesn't stick to the expenses. Otherwise, I'd agree with him. With taxes pulling out of the taxpayers' pocket, it's a big problem, a billion to a billion, and it's already 15 billion, but in spending, which are being promoted and planned by colleagues from social democracy, it doesn't suddenly apply - ten billion, twenty billion, ten percent, fifteen percent, we add, we add, we add. If we are serious about this argument, and I think the chairman of the budget committee is serious about it, then we are thinking of both sides of the budget. When we approved the draft budget for 2016, not only did we come up with a criticism of the deficit, but we proposed to you - you rejected it, you have every right - to save spending of 30 billion. You voted against, government MPs. Maybe not all of us, if any of these savings proposals were supported, I apologize to him, but most of the government Members had to vote against it, otherwise it would have gone away. So, please, for one budget, it's a six-year blackout. One for six. If we wanted to think like that. It's the only tax that has the bow and goes straight to the SFDI. If I wanted a simple solution - I don't suggest it - to cover the 5 billion, I would increase the share of SFDI from excise duty on fuel, and I could have 10 billion up there. But that's not the point. We're talking about a package that the taxpayers pay, and we're talking about spending what the state has because of the government's majority. I understand that. So it's not a bill that takes the SFDI 5 billion. That can be solved very easily. This is even a budget measure that does not even have to go to the House, because it is so small in the state budget that it is within the competence of the government. This can make executives very easy. If that's what we're proposing at 1. 1. 2016 will not be able to make it, so we will then propose an amendment to 1. 1. This can be taken into account in the draft state budget for the following years. And once again, please, let's compare the numbers. Let me round it up a little bit. This year, in an approved budget, the cost is 1,250 billion. And 5 billion is an unsolvable problem. Let's try to plug in a three-piece and try to figure out what the percentage is, and let's see if the problem really is that big and unsolvable. I must appreciate the Government's position, because the government has created a three-page negative opinion on a one-line bill, unlike the President of the Committee on Budgets, I will not read it all, but at least something, because it seems rather comical to me, at least the first two points of justification for the Government's negative position: The government finds the proposed abolition of the taxation of motor vehicles used in business, road taxes, for completely incompatible, non-systemic and unjustified measures, lacking any solution to the consequences of this. And the second paragraph, where the government actually explains to us the first paragraph: The inconclusiveness and unsystematicness of the bill is that it does not fit into any overall medium-term tax concept. The proposal deals with the absence of any link to the overall economic policy of the state and the setting of the tax system and individual taxes in the Czech Republic. So let's see -- 5 billion that would remain for entrepreneurs to either raise wages in the public sector -- because what's interesting about the wage debate? The economy is growing, that's good, the state's tax revenues are growing, but the fact is that employees of public institutions and the state benefit much more from this fact than employees in the private sector. That means those who pay those taxes benefit much less from it than those who manage or use those taxes. And that's not entirely fair. And to the argument that the businessman is driving on a car intended for business, well, that's exactly the same car when we're talking about cars. If I drive my private vehicle, I don't have a private vehicle, but if I happen to own one, the communications won't know if the octave she's after is in business or not. Both of them will pay, as I said, excise duty on petrol, they will pay legal insurance, and if one day along the highway, they will pay either toll or they will have a highway stamp. I think there's enough of these ideas. Let's see how they deal with this in Germany when they want to introduce tolls or road signs. They will introduce him to de facto account for the road tax and German citizens will pay nothing. We could also propose to cancel motorway stamps for Czech citizens. I'll take the other side. We say cancel the road tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u13	I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u14	Hang on, 90 minutes of the opposition window isn't that much. We lasted three and a half hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u15	And two minutes to go isn't enough either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u16	And two minutes till the end of today isn't so much either. That's right. That means moaning about SFDI finding out isn't justified. The government can handle this very easily. When you propose - tomorrow we'll talk about the powers of the government to raise pensions, you don't count the billions when you say no. But think about all the businessmen could get for it. They could restore the fleet, we often complain that the average age of the fleet is too high. They could raise wages, they could buy other things. At the most, if they're left with it, they'll tax the money, and some percentage will go back to tax. If I take a theoretical example that they just don't have expenses, they don't use the money, so there's a higher tax base, and so there's a higher tax. [[19.00 hours]] I don't know if you're all - I wanted to take it with me, but then I thought sometimes I was right to criticize when someone was showing some banners or some posters. I recommend it to everyone, because today we're not going to vote on it, so in the meantime - and if you don't have it, we're going to give it to you from our humble sources - take a road tax return. How complicated it is... [[A note from the diaper.]] Well, it is, and it isn't. I think it's administratively unnecessary. And God forbid your employee gets permission to use a private vehicle for business purposes. That's another duty. I know it's a very comfortable tax for the IRS. I think on April 15th, there was a quarterly advance right now, and it's really paid four times a year. So please don't worry about 5.5 billion when you talk about spending again. Look at the spending frameworks that the government is so hard to discuss as they keep rising. Where is your goal in 2017 to have a balanced budget? Not in sight. In fact, every year you say it will be in three years. Just by saying it every year, you keep putting it off. After all, the Minister of Finance's objective was to balance the budget in 2017. I know it looked like a long time in 2014, we've got plenty of time. And now it says 60 billion minus. But he's not a loser. So we can afford to forgive that $5 billion. Entrepreneurs will invest it either in wages, in machines, cars, other equipment needed, in software, and in everything essential to their business. Mr Vice-President, I will continue to convince my colleagues next time, although with how often we have opposition mini- and micro window, I do not know if it will be this year, but I will try to convince you that rejection at first reading is not reasonable. And the last sentence. President Votava is partly right, and that can be adjusted. Brussels tells us again that we must have the road tax, but only for cars over 12 tons. So we can work this out. And those eight laws where we'd have to project it... I don't know. The government quotes one. She kept the seven from us. And it's kind of nice. If we were to abolish the road tax, such dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we must amend Act 310 on the residence of the armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic. I'm sorry. I didn't really think of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-005-113.u17	I thank Prime Minister Stanjur. That was the last speech of today's meeting day. I conclude today's meeting on the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., paragraph 167, the Pension Insurance Act. Have a good evening.
