ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Vondráček votes with card number 54, Mr Klučka with card number 61, President Stanjura with card number 69. I would like to inform you that these Members and Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting. Mr Adámek - foreign travel, Vice-President Bartošek from 16 o'clock to the end of the meeting - working grounds, Mr Bezecný - working reasons, Mr Fiala Petr - foreign travel, Mr Fiedler - medical reasons, Mrs Fischerová - foreign travel, Mr Grospič - foreign travel, Mr Komárek from 16 to 17 o'clock - personal reasons, Mr Koskuba - medical reasons, Mr Kováčik - personal reasons, Mr Lobkowicz - foreign travel, Mr Nykl - medical reasons, Mrs Nytrová - personal reasons, Mr Snopek - foreign travel, Mr Šincl - personal reasons, Mr Vozka from 14.30 to 19 o'clock - working reasons and Mr Zlatuška - foreign travel. Minister Dienstbier apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Chovanec from 9.30 to the end of the meeting - working reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý from 11.30 to the end of the meeting due to foreign travel, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek from 14.30 to the end of the meeting - also working reasons. So many apologies. So today we should start with fixed points, which is paragraph 175, the Civil Code, then point 1, the State Budget and paragraph 58, the Construction Act. I would also like to point out that at 12.45 we have a fixed electoral block, that is to say, paragraphs 264, 216 and 217, and, if necessary, we would continue the points from the block with the laws in the first reading. However, before we proceed to paragraph 175, I have Mr Ondráček's application for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, I apologize for disturbing the operation of this meeting, but I come before you to approve a new item after the state budget today, which would be called the Prime Minister's position on the statements made by the Minister of Culture that the Czech Republic could be one of Germany's federal states. It is not enough that the Minister of Czech Government is fraternizing with the judges and calls them dear colleagues. On Monday, at a seminar held by the Christian Democratic Institute in Malostranské beseda, he said that, in theory, we could be one of Germany's federal states, because our economy is linked to the economy of the Federal Republic, and I think we also owe it to our country's very successful economic development. I believe that the Czech Republic is still a sovereign state and the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic should speak within the Constitution of the Czech Republic and support the sovereignty of the state. The way the Minister of Culture has been performing lately, and I'm not going back to the case that's dawning here, I made it clear yesterday if the Minister wants to play a solo game, so let him play a solo sport. If he wants to be in the collective, and the collective is the government of the Czech Republic, then let him kick for the collective. So, ladies and gentlemen, if this is not enough for you to discuss these matters, I don't know what will have to come next. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-000-000.u3	No one is applying to the agenda, so please take your seats in the O.R., we will vote. Mr Ondráček wishes to place a new point - do I understand that after the fixed points today, Mr Ondráček, is that so? - which would be the Prime Minister's position on the statement of the Minister of Culture, etc. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with Mr Ondráček's proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 174 vote. It's registered 118, for 28, versus 71. The motion was not accepted. In that case, let's move on to point number
