ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts, as amended by Act No. 87/2015 Sb. House print 689/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Before he starts to speak, I would ask my colleague Kaňkovský to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members, this bill is already at second reading, so I am just repeating it. It is mainly due to the need to address the decline in the real value of the care contributions that occurred in almost ten years of the existence of this benefit and is proposed in the Social Services Act to increase the amount of care contributions at all levels of dependence by 10 percent, with effect from 1 August this year. Furthermore, the conditions for the provision of social services without the client's consent are regulated there and the existing provisions of the Law on special court proceedings are specified in connection with this regulation. The third line of regulation responds to the growing illegal provision of social services. I would like to add that this is a small technical amendment to this law, otherwise such a large, thorough one, which is being prepared and will be launched in the order of the month, two, into an external commentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and I note that we ordered the proposal to be discussed at first reading by the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 689/1. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to introduce you to resolution 179 of the Social Policy Committee of the 38th meeting of 18 February 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and Act No 292/2013 Coll., on Special Proceedings of the Courts, as amended by Act No 87/2015 Coll. It's the House Press 689. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Zuzana Stöcklová, Mr Vít Kaňkovský report and the Social Policy Committee after the debate, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first recommends the Chamber of Deputies to agree to this government proposal as amended by amendments and supplements. Of the two amendments tabled, one was approved by the Committee, and I will briefly comment on it in the debate. Its text is available to you in a written copy of the resolution which has been delivered to you as House printing 689/1. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mrs Jana Hnyková and then the rapporteur in the application, not as rapporteur, but in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u6	Thank you, Mr President, I wish you all a lovely afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the amendment to Act 108/2006, which amends the assessment of the care allowance. The proposed amendments to the two paragraphs of the Act on Social Services return their content to the time before the changes made by the Parliament of the Czech Republic within the framework of the so-called Act on Social Services. austerity packages. The current valid version has not been proven with regard to persons applying for a care allowance. Many people receiving this benefit have been reduced or even withdrawn, not because their health and fitness has changed or improved, but because they are considered more self-sufficient under the new system than they really are. New applicants for a care allowance are in many cases placed in a lower degree of dependence on helping others than they allow their real ability to cope with basic life needs. Therefore, if the objective of this adjustment, as declared in its enforcement, was indeed to reduce the administrative complexity and complexity, while maintaining or even increasing the standard of care for dependants, rather than reducing the amount of financial contributions, it is evident that the declared objectives have not been achieved by adopting this adjustment. Not only did the radical reduction in the number of actions considered not reduce the administrative intensity, but it even increased. Although fewer areas are considered, it is more complex given the scope and absence of logical separation. In a number of cases, even impossible. Each individual case must be assessed responsibly and truthfully by this insufficient number of parameters. The reason for these negative changes is to narrow down the scope of the operations assessed by the competent authorities in deciding on the amount of the contribution from the original 36 to only 10. In the same way, restrictions were also carried out in the implementing decree, so it is now very difficult for both social workers and assessors to objectively assess their ability to manage specific tasks of basic life needs in individual applicants. The proposed new legislation merely returns to the original version of Sections 8 and 9, which has proved to be fully effective in practice over several years. Given that the assembly of social workers and doctors who assess medical fitness has changed little over the duration of the current adjustment, the assumption is that most simply returning to the time before the adoption of the previous legislation will cause fewer problems than the creation of a completely new methodology. [[16.40 hours]] Healthily disabled, especially through the organisation of the Association of Disabilities in the Czech Republic, have repeatedly tried in writing and personally to convince the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Marksová of the need for an accelerated amendment to the relevant provisions of the Social Services Act and its implementing decree. It didn't happen. We discussed this issue on the subcommittee for non-insurable batch systems, disabled, seniors and socially endangered groups. We held a big seminar on this issue on 17 March 2015 in the Chamber of Deputies, where people directly testified to whom all of this was deeply affected. [[Members in the ranks of social democracy speak to each other.]] I'll wait, gentlemen... We're good to go. Excellent. Healthily disabled have announced a petition for which 11 373 citizens have signed up. It was discussed on the House of Deputies' petition committee and was adopted. However, none of these suggestions, even after a personal publicly declared promise by Minister Marksová, has so far prompted the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to accelerate the amendment of the above-mentioned law and its implementing decree. As we learned on 22 September 2015 on the petition committee, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not prepare anything in this area. And I don't know about any change yet either. That is why I decided with my colleague and colleagues from the club to submit this amendment to the law in order to correct the injustices of the past, but unfortunately it did not get on the agenda. There are still more important things than correcting the injustices of the disabled. You know, I don't want us to just criticize what anyone has done wrong in the past, but we're here to fix things. And if something doesn't work out in practice, it hurts our citizens, and people want to change that, then we should hear their voice. We've left enough space for the Department of Labour and Social Affairs to make this right. But if there is no effort to change, we must return to what is proven, what is called for and what they want to return. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would like to ask you to consider the requirements of the disabled and then support this amendment at third reading. I heard from some of you before the meeting of the Social Policy Committee that this needs to be reworked. I didn't fight it, and I'm sure they wouldn't resist disability if it were in their favor. But no one came or said how he imagined it. Therefore, once again, I would like to thank those who supported this proposal on the KDU-ČSL committee and the Communist Party. I will sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Now in the general debate, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u8	Good afternoon, one more time. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government, Mr President, the KDU-ČSL club supports the amendment to the Social Services Act, which I mentioned here at first reading, with a very positive view, in particular, of increasing the contribution to care by 10%, because the present amount of the contribution is considered to be significantly unsatisfactory, where in many cases it is a limiting factor for the disabled in drawing on the necessary social services. We also have a positive view of increasing the competence of regional authorities in the fight against the illegal operation of social services. Now I would like to introduce you to the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. This amendment is an alternative to the amendment adopted by the Guarantee Committee, which I also proposed to the Committee. In substance, both amendments aim to address the same problem. It is a very unhappy situation in the management of care allowance in patients who, for example, cause severe spinal cord injury, severe car accidents with multiple injuries, brain damage with paralysis or amputation of limbs spend several months in an acute hospital bed and then months and months in subsequent care facilities or in a rehabilitation institution. The current practice is that in these cases the procedure for assessing the degree of dependence and granting of the care allowance is suspended and suspended throughout the period of hospitalization. This process creates a huge problem for the patient and his family, when, after six or more months, he finally gets into the home environment, the procedure for the care allowance is in fact starting. These include patients with long-term adverse health conditions requiring health and social care in their home environment. Here it is proven from practice many times that the patient and his family are waiting for a Martyrium, when three, four, but also six months or more to grant a care allowance. Discussions with such disabled families make it clear that the difficult situation for them is only the very serious health situation of their relatives, plus the loss of a substantial part of income, the stress situation with adaptation to the home environment and, last but not least, the absence of a care allowance, which significantly limits the possibility for this family to draw on social services. It should be said that, for example, patients with spinal trauma or car accidents are very often patients of an active age, often a feeding family, which, of course, increases the consequences. That is why I have come up with an amendment to address this bad situation. The original version of my amendment was adopted positively by the Committee on Social Policy, but we agreed in the committee's discussion that both substantive and legislative implementation has certain risks and shortcomings, and I admit them. In this context, I appreciate the positive approach of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the section of Deputy Minister Stöcklová and Merhautová, which, following my call for the preparation of an alternative amendment, called for a broad discussion with all stakeholders in a short period of time, including the necessary interaction with the Ministry of Health, since this also applies to assessors and doctors in health care establishments. After two weeks of intensive negotiations, in my opinion, the result is a balanced and in practice very well realized model, which I will now read as an alternative in a detailed debate. This amendment will allow the initiation of a procedure for granting a care allowance in cases where it takes more than 60 days for continuous hospitalization of a patient with one disease, where the prognosis of a long-term adverse state of health is. At the same time, this is what was needed to deal with the Ministry of Health, as well as cooperation with emergency, follow-up or rehabilitation facilities, including allowing social investigations. This will speed up the management of the care allowance, and the patient will have a real chance when after a number of months spent in bed facilities he finds himself in home care, where he is exposed to a great stress reaction from adaptation to the home environment and, of course, from related health and social disabilities, so he will at least be granted a care allowance or not far from it. Therefore, it will allow him to immediately benefit from social services. By doing so, both the patient and his family will be more easily able to cope with the very difficult event of life that the family has come to because of serious illness. I would like to ask you in this context to support this amendment at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u9	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Before we continue the debate - Mrs Adamová will be prepared with a factual remark, and Mr Beznoska with a proper application - I will state the apology received. From 16 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Marek Černoch apologizes for health reasons and from 16 a.m. to 16 a.m. for working reasons, Mr Milan Chovanec. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to support and express my support for TOP 09 to the very amendment of Vít Kaňkovský, which we consider to be a step in the right direction. On the contrary, I cannot identify with Mrs Hnyková's amendment, which we will not support. But as far as the two proposals are concerned, I think that Vít Kaňkovský deserves the support. And actually, Mr Krása, President of the National Council of Disabilities, we discussed this, and he is very supportive of that, of course. So I'm just expressing my support for us this briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u11	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. We are continuing the debate with Mr Beznoska's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a brief statement on more or less a technical amendment to the Social Services Act, because the big and new, fundamental law will come to the table next year, so we are all looking forward to it. This technical amendment basically covers three areas, and I think all three deserve our support. From what we've been talking about here, probably the most important increase in care allowance is 10 percent. Because it hasn't been done for years, I think it's the right way. And because the amendment should be valid from 1 August this year, so with regard to the burden on the state budget for this year it is about CZK 0.9 billion. In the following years, if it were preserved, it is roughly CZK 2 billion per year. I think that's perfectly okay. With regard to the second area, this is an increase in the possibility of controlling and detecting illegal social facilities, I welcome this very much, because perhaps some of you will remember the unfortunate case from Přerov, when under the pretext or under the mysterious head of the hotel there was cared for old people, virtually. not cared for. Thus, it is the detection of illegal social service providers and the related granting of significantly higher fines. I mean, we should all identify, too. The third circuit, which deals with this technical amendment, is such legislation especially for detention devices - allowing the signing of contracts by guardians for clients. In this context, I remind you that we have a lot of people with Alzheimerův's, for example, who don't even have guardians yet. So it's a sensitive area, and this novel helps solve it. I think that none of the Citizen's Democratic Party Club will have any problem supporting this amendment clearly. And since there has been mention of the amendments, I will only join you in paying due attention to Mr Vít Kaňkovský's amendment, which adopted the proposal drawn up by the National Council of Disabilities headed by Mr Krása. I think it is an amendment that has gone in the right direction. As far as Mrs Hnyková's changer is concerned, he would have put the situation back somewhere by 2012. I don't think it's against anything personally. However, I am in favour of the fact that we should not make any violent changes to the things that work. So we should focus and support the changeling of Vít Kaňkovský. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u13	I thank Mr Adolf Beznosk for his speech. I'm asking who else in the debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants a final word after the general debate. No. There was no proposal to return the guarantee committee for renegotiation. We can start the debate in detail. Mrs Jana Hnyková is the first to join her. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sign up for my amendment put into the system under 3882 and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. And now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u16	Have a good afternoon again. I am now formally signing up for the amended amendment, which is in the system under the number of the House press 3902. [[document correctly]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-009-014.u17	I thank Mr Kaňkovský and ask who else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? Not either. There was no proposal that we could vote on. We'll be able to close the press negotiations on 689. I'm ending second reading of point 14. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. We will continue with the point
