ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u1	160. Government bill on consumer credit / House print 679/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 679/7, which was delivered on 12. 5. 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 679/8. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you of the most important thing about the Government's draft consumer credit law. The new regulation of consumer credit aims to strengthen the position of consumers and to this end it introduces a number of new institutes, from which I would mention in particular the adjustment of early repayment of the loan for housing, the limitation of contractual fines, private penalties for poor or no assessment of creditworthiness, the transfer of licensing and supervisory powers to the Czech National Bank, a new system of verification of the expertise of distributors and so on. The law will extend its scope to so-called micro-credits and housing loans against existing legislation in the future. Quite a number of amendments have been tabled to the Government's bill. Many of them aim to improve the proposal and the Ministry of Finance supports it. However, we had to take a fundamentally disagreeable position on some of them. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to those amendments that restrict the application of the rules introduced by the Government to protect consumers, or which allow regulated persons to circumvent the proposed regulation. This is mainly a proposal for an exception from the scope of the Act for the negotiation of credit over the phone or a proposal for the abolition of the prohibition on determining the remuneration of the assessor of the creditworthiness of the client according to the number of approved credit applications. This is why these amendments go completely against the fundamental bases and objectives of the law, which is consumer protection and an effort to improve the situation on the non-bank credit market. These proposals are also in direct conflict with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 2014 which we voted here and which the House has asked the Government for a proposal for an adjustment that will substantially tighten the provision and supervision of non-bank consumer credits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. So I am now opening up a debate in which I am registering two applications. First Mr Černoch, Mrs Zelienková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, I didn't understand the government's position on the Dawn proposal for the RPSN. All the government parties rushed ahead of the election in vows to turn usury. But when it gets tough and the interest on the loans is supposed to go down and cut substantially into the profit of loan sharks, suddenly it's nothing. Unfortunately, long-term practice has shown that the state is not able to face usury in any other way. The law enforcement authorities have not yet been able to apply criminal law to protect citizens from usury. Everything is underlined by the fact that only a very small proportion of suspicious loans end up in practice in court. The vast majority of people who have been victims of loan sharks are not judged because they have no money or options. That is why it is very important once and for all to say clearly what is and is not odd. The Act on Cropping RPSN submitted its time both ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. But today, they essentially reject the same proposal hypocritically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u5	Thank you. I'm now registering two priority rights. First rapporteur, Mr Klaška, after him, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me return a little as rapporteur to this press and at least one of the amendments. And maybe even a tiny response to a colleague of Marek Černoch. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we adopted a resolution in the House when we called on the Government to present a proposal with a major tightening up of the regulation of this segment of consumer credit. So we have here after two years of work, we are in the third reading of the amendment to the Consumer Credit Act, where a fundamental element is the change of business, where it will not be possible to do business or to provide consumer credit, but on the license granted by the Czech National Bank, based on expertise, capital adequacy, credibility and integrity. This includes sanctions, including the withdrawal of the licence as the last penalty. A number of amendments have been tabled - this has already been discussed by the Minister - from 11 Members and a relatively long voting procedure awaits us. I am aware that in a detailed debate, I will read even a minor legislative technical adjustment and then I would show you the whole voting procedure, because there will be minor changes. I myself have tabled several amendments, among which I would like to mention two. First of all, it's a ban on arbitration clauses, I'll talk about it at the next point, House press 680. And on this point, I have tabled an amendment that addresses one imperfection of this law, because, as I said, it has been prepared for two years, it has been very widely discussed, but unfortunately one important circumstance has fallen out of it, and that is supervision of illegal providers. We will have a situation here where legal providers will only operate on a licence granted by the Czech National Bank with its very precise supervision and illegal provider, if they provide illegally a loan, well, it is a criminal offence of illegal business, should then be prosecuted by the Police of the Czech Republic, but it is also the only authority that can control illegal providers at all. And I wouldn't want to ask how many he's checked. So the illegal provider is the only one in the quotes sanctioned, i.e. If he illegally lends money, he's not entitled to interest and he's not entitled to sanctions. He's entitled to the principal. And I don't have to point out to you that it's very easy to go around. So it's an imperfection that needs to be addressed. And I responded to it with an amendment that introduces back supervision of the Czech National Bank, which is a very respectable authority, and it is also entrusted with supervision of the entire capital market. Therefore, it will no longer be possible to supervise the Czech Trade Inspection Authority or the Trade Authority, as I said, only the Police of the Czech Republic. I would like to say that in Europe such supervision is quite common. All Members received a map from the non-state non-profit organization Man in Need, where it is clearly stated in which countries the central bank also supervises consumer credit if consumer credit can be provided by non-bank institutions. It is for your information in France, Italy, it is also in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Sweden, also in Bulgaria or Hungary - even over unlicensed entities. In practice, this matter could be carried out in such a way that those non-profit and non-state organisations or mayors who encounter the fact that an unlicensed creditor will enforce a claim can provide the action to the supervisory authority, which will thus have a well documented procedure for such an entity. There is therefore no need to go to risk zones or excluded locations. Only the lawsuit of these illegal providers will suffice for their debtors to stand trial. There'll be enough evidence. The amending proposal also addresses how supervision is to take place, that these bodies will have to provide the necessary synergies. There are also sufficient penalty provisions that such an illegal provider can then be affected by sanctions, up to 20 million. Crowns. If the Czech National Bank has enough evidence in its expertise, I have no doubt that the Czech National Bank will set itself up very quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u7	Thank you, too. I'm registering several priority rights. Mr Kalousek will be the first to speak, Mr Černoch will be prepared, followed by the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I apologize to those who have already heard this from me on the budget committee, if any. at first reading. Our general approach to this standard. We consider it right that the regulation of consumer credit will be given some order. On the other hand, sometimes too much hardness does not bring the desired success. Please note that demand for credit will not fall if there is hard regulation. And if the person who doesn't find the need to provide the appropriate loan to a legitimate licensed entity, logically, he'll be looking for it with an illegal without a license, and there is usually no debt of standard instruments such as an execution order, but he'll enforce with a blunt bat and a sharp razor. Consider that we will put pressure on the demand for these providers in a specific case. That's one thing. Therefore, we will support the amendments that eliminate the excessive hardness of this regulatory standard in our opinion. The second point I would like to make - that there is a certain claw of large retail houses in this standard. Its logical consequence will be significant market purification and reduction of these entities, and I do not think that it is completely wrong. However, I am fascinated by the certainty set by the Treasury for 20 miles. Crowns. When we asked about the Deputy Minister's budget committee, why 20 miles. Kroner, so we didn't get a satisfactory answer. She doesn't exist. [[12.00 hours]] The amount of capital is not important, capital adequacy is important. And an entity with a lower capital ratio, like 15 or 10 million. CZK, can act responsibly and an entity with a high level of capital can behave in such a way that it can be described as a moral hazard or an aircraft. It is certainly not true that the absolute amount of equity is the right indicator. I would like to draw your attention to that, please. I don't see why not lower the legal limit. Except for one reason - it's for those big retail houses that want those entities to be as low as possible on the market. And I don't think the Treasury would have to dig that hard in their interest. I don't know where the Minister has his own loans, if it's at these houses, but he wouldn't have to dig for them that much. So many two notes for Club TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u9	Thank you. This was Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Milan Urban's point of order now. Then, with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for the Committee on Budgets, I must express some disagreement or disagreement with the resolution of the Committee on Budgets on one issue. Since it is probably in this law in each amendment for someone's money, it would be better for the Committee to adopt a clearer position, namely yes or no, on individual amendments. If you look at the resolution, you will find that 28 amendments have not been made by the Committee. That is, as a guarantee committee, with all due respect to the Committee on Budgets and its chairman, I would expect it to give us a better lead on how to vote for the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u11	I thank Mr Urban, but I have other factual points here, Mr Beznoska and Mr Kučera. Now, Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Me, too, very briefly. If we have enough responsibility in voting on individual amendments - and we vote about 108 times - and the law gets the right contour, I welcome it because it is necessary to enter the consumer credit market. Be careful, my fellow Members, when you vote not to miss this because, for example, there are about 21 providers on the market in Slovakia and thus the free competition is quite limited. Let me remind you that we have several hundred, several hundred providers, maybe a few thousand. Two things I would point out, and one time it was said here by my colleague Kalousek as well. I am in favour of considering very carefully and considering capital adequacy. Because 20 miles. is, in my opinion, a very sharp, very hard measure. And the second thing that will certainly affect the situation on the market is the unnecessary imposition of a contractual penalty. I am thinking, in particular, of the 200 thousand threshold. Crowns. So overall, if we can agree on real and good amendments that reflect consumers' needs, but at the same time do not clear the market, then overall, I think I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u13	Thank you, Mr. Beznosk. Another factual point is that of Mr Michal Kučera, then of Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u14	Hello, and thank you for the floor. I would like to join my previous speaker, Mr Urban, here, in the positions of the guarantee committee, virtually. here the Committee on Budgets, which is not pleased to adopt opinions on the amendments. And it has two possible reasons. The first reason may be some kind of alibis, which means let's not be that way. But I rather think that the reason is different, and that is a contradictory view of the vote in the committees, in the guarantee committees on amendments. And I would really like to call on the House's leadership and, of course, legislation to unite this view. I mean, the Economic Committee, of which I am a member, has a completely different voting procedure as in the Guarantee Committee, when it actually votes on the proposal yes - no. This means that someone will submit an amendment, so I am voting on its support. The economic committee has a negative opinion when it does not receive the aid, so logically the amendment. That means yes - no. There is no other vote. This means at least two important committees in the House, which means the Economic Committee and the Committee on Budgets, have a different view of the methodology of voting. I would really like to call once again on the House and legislation to unite the view so that we do not have opinions here in the House next time without an opinion. Then I'd say maybe we can do without a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u15	That was my colleague Michal Kučera. Now Mr Marek Černoch's factual remark and the logically factual remark made by the chairman of the budget committee Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u16	Thank you. I've applied with fact before, so just a brief response to my colleague Klaška. I don't think we really got along. Or maybe I did not understand what you, my colleague, were talking about through you, Mr President. Of course, we are very happy and welcome this law. Just from the point of view that if executions are solved as one of the big topics, executions are already the result of something that precedes. And that might be the cause, for example, in these consumer loans. So I'm sure that my point was just that we think that the ceilinging of the RPSN is some kind of system and some kind of tool to prevent the odds from happening. That's why I said it, and we've been standing by it, saying it the whole time we've been here in the House. So it was just this question. But otherwise, of course, we welcome this bill. And a small response to my colleague Kalousek. Of course, you're right, colleague, by your means, that it would not be quite good if there were only a few chosen ones here. But on the other hand, if the bank refuses to lend for some reason, there is a reason. And then these people, if they go somewhere where they get the conditions that sometimes they get in these non-bank institutions, then these people really get in trouble. So rather from this point of view, so that it's balanced. Not to be a pair of chosen ones, but not to be completely out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u17	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, the President of the budget committee, has now made a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u18	Thank you for the floor. I know I'm stalling, but he won't let me resist what some colleagues and my honourable colleague, Mr Urban, have said. I reject any alibi of the budget committee. That's not even on the budget committee's alibis! I know, that's not what Mr. Urban said, that's what Mr. Kučera said. That's no alibi at all! But, Mr Kučera, through Mr President, as you are voting on the Economic Committee, you will not vote in accordance with how the vote is to be voted on the Guarantee Committee. Because if you vote when you vote on a consent opinion first and it does not pass, then it is automatically a dissenting position, but that is not true. A dissenting position must be voted on. And if a dissenting position doesn't pass, there's no position. This is the interpretation of legislation. I was arguing on my own not to vote that way. But unfortunately, the legislation insisted. And the votes are not counted in this. So if the consent is not passed, the dissenting position shall be put to the vote. If a dissenting opinion does not pass, there is no position. This is the case in the statement or in the request for legislation of the Chamber of Deputies to proceed with the guarantee committee. You see what we've done with the guarantee committee and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u19	I thank my colleague Votav for keeping time. Now the factual point of Mr Klaška's rapporteur, then Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to colleagues who have said their point of view here. Mr Černoch, through Mr President. We've been talking about ceilinging the RPSN, annual percentage rate of cost, last time we talked about it. And it was about the fact that this knowledge is such that the problem of the Czech Republic cannot be solved in this way. Because more than an RPSN is a matter of sanctions that are far higher, and that is what makes debtors beg. So we found out two years ago that the annual percentage rate of cost and its ceiling didn't solve the issue. [[12.10 hours]] To Mr Kalousek through Mr President and perhaps to other colleagues. Look, the fact is that we have had an environment here so far, and the result is, according to employees of non-state non-profit organizations, such as People in Need, who also support my Amendment C2 on the further supervision of the Czech National Bank of illegal providers, so the result is more than one million executions. This is not quite a happy situation, and I think that many of these in creditor quotes produce debtors. And in that case, it's a social problem, and it just needs to be touched. There's nothing we can do about it. The restrictions must be strict in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u21	I thank my colleague Klašek for his time. Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Pavel Blažek, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u22	Thank you for the floor. Only briefly to the way in which we vote. He also points to the way in which this House works and to the disorganization that Mr Laudát has already mentioned. I really don't know what that means without an opinion. What should we follow? So what's the guarantee committee for? To give us a clear view of the amendment. That is why it is a committee of experts, there is to be an expert discussion and the committee is to adopt a clear position, which means yes - no. I have pointed out that there are at least two committees that are among the strongest committees, without any emphasis, namely the Economic Committee and the Budget Committee, which are obviously voting differently. More evidence of the disorganization of the House that's going on here. And logically, perfectly logically, I hope that everyone will give me the truth that we need to adopt a clear position on the amendments to the guarantee committee, that is, yes-no. If someone, as President Votava, is defending that the 'no opinion' position is correct, then perhaps it follows from some current point of view of legislation. However, if this is really a single view, then another coalition committee, that is, economically, votes badly, firstly, and secondly, please, let us work quickly to change legislation so that the guarantee committee accepts clear positions on the amendments, that is, yes - no, that none without an opinion is possible. I would like once again to call on the House and legislation to prepare a solution that will only allow us to vote yes - no and to adopt a clear position of the guarantee committee on the amendments. It is, of course, for the benefit of the work of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u23	Your time has passed for a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Pavel Blažek, on a point of fact. And I would like us to return not to discuss the law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, but to the law we are discussing, namely consumer credit. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u24	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond to some of the previous speakers. When I hear the word execution, it's associated with the fact that it's wrong at all costs, so I'd like to remind you of what I say here every time. In this sphere, debts do not arise by being imposed on someone. Someone's just gonna borrow it voluntarily. Maybe he's not trying to take the terms of the loan. I understand that this may have to be dealt with, but let me remind you - without executions, no legal system has ever worked. Without these laws, such as consumer credit, these are new things. And while the Roman Empire with executors and executions has endured for hundreds of years, without this law, human society has managed for thousands of years, I dare say. So let's not wait now, the moment we pass some better law that there will be no more debts, there will be no execution. And above all, let's be glad that the executions are because there is not so much time when the executions didn't take place and the economy was disrupted by this rather than by being moved here over the number of voters who owe. That's what this is all about, and it's making me very angry. I understand that debtors are more, that they need to be caught in the political networks of different parties, but it is not the right procedure. Mr. Babiš, to speak nicely about him sometimes, he liked to quote Baťa here. So here I would remember one of his remarks about bankruptcy, and it has something to do with it, and it's about the same thing all the time. He said: Bankruptcy is a matter of moral conviction. The debt, too. Just whoever knows he won't be able to make the payment, they won't borrow it, or they'll do whatever it takes to pay the debt. And we're sitting here, and we're hunting to take care of some of our fellow citizens, who are totally responsible for their own situation. And the second time, Babiš - I saw him on TV last night, saying that there was a problem, that there was a need for school. Yes, education must be introduced in schools to borrow them badly if you do not know in advance that you are not up to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u25	Mr. Ambassador... Well, thank you for keeping time. Mr Kalousek, then Mr Černoch, then Mr Pilný. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u26	Thank you. Only to Mr Klašek and to his call for the hardness of the standard. He is right if he believes that with hardness of the standard the number of demand of those who do not have it will fall. I'm convinced they won't fall, they'll just go somewhere else. So if the number of executions falls due to a hard standard, then logically, the number of extorted, beaten and cut will increase, because they'll just go somewhere else where the debts are being enforced differently. If Mr Klaška sees it as such that it will not be a problem for the Committee on Budgets, but for the Security Committee, he is certainly right. But I don't think it's in the interest of society. The toughness of the standard is not... Repression is not the solution. The solution is to increase financial literacy, which is desperate. In 2011, as Minister of Finance, I started a project to increase financial literacy not only in schools but also in civil society, especially among seniors. Unfortunately, both the Zamrazilová and my project fell asleep. When I heard the Minister on TV last night saying that he was thinking that it should somehow be introduced to those schools, I wondered where he came from when he didn't know that the Ministry had stopped doing so despite the great efforts it had made. And I'm sure we need to get back to that. Just without higher financial literacy, the problem will not be solved - and the financial literacy is desperate. And we can't protect anybody... By any standard, we can't protect anyone from their own irresponsibleness and stupidity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u27	Thank you. That's another factual point. Mr Černoch's point of view is now in effect. [[Reporter reporting.]] I cannot accept this, because before you, Mr rapporteur, Mr Pilný is still with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry. I was just looking on the Internet for the interest that some constitutions lend on. I found 166 percent, even 9,000 percent on one page, for another 410 percent. Really. So that's what we're fighting here. I think this is exactly the moment when we need to get into this and prevent these things. And that's exactly what we're proposing. And I don't see a single reason, because it works in other states, and I don't know why my colleague Klaška is defending himself from this - putting an end to the RPSN. It's a perfectly common thing, a functional thing, an effective thing. If these things are to be dealt with effectively, this is exactly the tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný's factual remark and then the rapporteur with a factual remark, then the priority right of Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I take seriously your warning to speak to the point. However, as Chairman of the Economic Committee, I must also make a factual comment on what has been said here. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the Guarantee Committee are not unambiguous. There is also no clear interpretation of legislation. The Economic Committee shall treat this matter in such a way that, according to the principles of common sense, it also gives the House clear recommendations or recommendations on individual proposals. That's the essence of the matter. And we're forcing the petitioner to do the same thing. So with us, the minister or the petitioner will not succeed in having a neutral position. If we do not act like this, the institution of the guarantee committee makes no sense, because without an opinion or any resolution it does not give any instructions to the Chamber of Deputies and then those negotiations, which are very long, because sometimes they are dozens of amendments, make no sense. So if the Rules of Procedure are not amended, we will continue to act according to common sense and responsibility to the rest of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u31	Thank you. Now other factual points. First, the rapporteur, Mrs Langšádlová, and then Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u32	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to my previous speakers. Some of them again. To Marek Černoch - it was simply so, through Mr President, that, on the basis of the two-year-olds, and perhaps also to Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, during the two-year preparation of this law, which was really very widely discussed and distributed to all the MPs, you can guess how many Members responded to the Ministry of Finance and wanted to talk about this in any way. Two! It was two of them. It was me, and I remember the other in vain if it was Mr. Krákora. We can ask the Treasury. Otherwise, I agree that this is about financial literacy, and I totally agree with that. But to the executions, I have to say that the institution of executions is also being abused, that there really are creditors who actually produce those debtors. But it is in the incomprehensibleness of the treaties, when the most important provisions are usually written in small letters, return money to non-existent addresses, in non-existent times, and I don't know what else. It's just a minefield where it's just waiting for the debtor to blow up, which mine will be successful. That's all. If everyone was fair, we wouldn't really have to deal with this here, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u33	Thank you. Now, Mrs Langšádlová's factual point, and the last point so far, Mr Gabal, follows. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u34	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would really like to react briefly to the fact that ceilinging RPSN is not any solution, and we are not so backwards, while in other countries it is what they have. To be aware of the situation in Europe in developed countries. We have here Great Britain, Ireland, Italy, Germany, Spain, Sweden. All these advanced countries don't have an RPSN ceiling. And they don't have it simply because it's really the way to hell, because you people who can't even get to non-bank providers, you push them into the black market and leave them completely in the hands of loan sharks. So that is why it is really better for the weakest group not to put a stop to the RPSN, as they have done in most European developed countries. It's not backwards, it's really a very rational thought. It's a better way to keep them under control. I therefore support this proposal and my colleagues Klaška to have the supervision of the Czech National Bank there. It is the best way to protect even the weakest groups, because it is true that even in the interests of us right-wing politicians, it is for the least possible people to fall into executions, because in the end they are our voters who have to pay these costs when these groups of people get out of the labour market and never return to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u35	Thank you, Mrs Langšádlová. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, and I hope that this will be the last point of fact, and then the right of the Minister of Finance will be the priority, then Mrs Zelienková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, Prime Minister, I just wanted to give two thoughts to consider. One is, if we look at it, there is often only talk of residents from excluded localities, but if you look at the development of pension executions, you will see that this is a growing problem that appears there and may not be carried, and I would like to stress this, only financial illiteracy, however much strengthening it is appropriate. What needs to be realized, and the control mechanism is that we have financial institutions like ordinary banks, who are damn sure to check your ability to repay and guarantee to replace the funds, regardless of whether you're literate or illiterate. You can be literate a thousand times, you'll still be vetted, and you'll either come out on that spreadsheet or you won't. And then there are financial institutions that don't programically care about their clients' ability to pay back, or vice versa, and yet they are shielded by no responsibility for choosing a client who doesn't pay it back. The regulation is here and, in my opinion, the method of regulation, and it is possible to have a discussion about this, the Czech National Bank and its supervision. The question is whether to measure it by the number of those who provide those financial services or by the number of those who fall into those debts. Many of them fled abroad from that title. But what I think should cause more attention is the sharp growth of retirement. And people get into this situation who are financially literate, and only because they're involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, in a proper debate, the priority right of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to return to the morning rumors that have gone away here, from Mr. Laudát and others. I fundamentally reject our coalition making any confusion in the House. I visited the zlínský kraj with Minister Herman on Friday, I was in a prison in Uherské Hradiště, which has been decaying since 1994. Nobody did anything to her. And the meeting was organized a month in advance, and there were representatives of the court, the Ministry of Justice, culture, regions, cities and more. And the Organizing Committee has been told more than once that I am excused and that my third reading laws are to be read today. So it's just manipulation and lie and, of course, all sorts of rumors. When I go to the county, the result comes out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u39	I will interrupt you, Minister, and ask the House for peace. If you have any comment on the debaters, you can use the Institute for factual remarks or sign up for the debate. Please let the individual Members, ministers, speak in such a way that they can say their position in a dignified environment. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u40	I visited Zlín on 27 May 2015 and visited the former Monument of Tomáš Baťa, which Mr Blažek spoke of. And I was threatened that mostly the right hand was unable to build the monument to Tomáš Baťa and put it in order. So I came back and I made a deal with the Minister of Culture Herman, we got the money, the project's done, and next year he's gonna start building. And the plane's gonna be there. So Tomáš Baťa's memorial might be ready next year, but it'll definitely start building. So if you're talking about Baťa, yes, we should be grateful. I also visited the cinema, now on Friday or Saturday, the biggest cinema in Europe. It's closed, there's a static problem. So I'm also gonna do my best to get this movie theater back in order. So when I go out to the county, I don't give out doughnuts. I was handing out doughnuts for the last time in the Karlovy Vary Region and from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., then I went to work as Finance Minister. So it's great that we're talking about Baťa here. Next year will be the 80th anniversary of Jan Antonín Baťa's book, which he wrote: We are building a state for 40 million. Well, it's a shame you didn't read it in 1990 when you started building, like they used to say, capitalism or the market economy. You could have gone to Germany for an internship. He had the highway drawn over Zlin because he lived there, of course. But we don't have those highways yet. We will now open the Prague-Ústí motorway in December. Thirty-one years we've been building it. So I fundamentally refuse to defend the House's actions here. I've been duly excused. And it's not true that there's some confusion. [[12.30 hours]] And I also reject the various rumors that have gone to the coalition government here. Our government has the results. Today we announce the budget as at 31 May. We have historically the largest surplus - CZK 22.4 billion. We have collected 23,8 billion extra in five months from taxes to public budgets compared to last year. And if Mr Laudát speaks of what I have done here, through Mr President, I will give you this brochure. Here's 57 pages of my work in two years. You can read it. Those are specific things. So the government gets results and we collect more taxes and we introduce things that no one here has implemented. Even the Consumer Credit Act. Basically, I reject all sorts of rumors. We also have an effort to draw maximum on European funds. Today we have an advance of CZK 15,7 billion in the CNB for the next programming period. There's a meeting tonight. I think all ministers are doing their best to draw. So there's all these rumours that went away again. Mr Kalousek, that Agrofert - taxes. Agrofert does not consolidate taxes. That's why he didn't place himself in the competition, because consolidation is later. That's just for explanation. But if he consolidated, he'd be at the top of the line. Even biofuels - they don't sell anymore because we have an oil situation. Yes, a contribution from the state that minimal. These are all rumors that are repeated here. I thought Mr. Laudát had forgotten about me, that he had taken over the kicking contest in Babiš under TOP 09, whether he was winning the Laudát or Mr. Kučera. So he's forgotten about me. Well, I'm on a plate again, but that's normal. I refuse. And I've been duly excused. The results are clear, and I'm happy to hand this brochure over to Mr Laudát so he knows what I did at the Ministry of Finance. And maybe I've done a lot more than your club's boss has done in his entire line of work. I don't know how much there was. Seven or nine years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u41	I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. But now he has made factual remarks. I understand that the Minister has priority rights and can talk about anything. I wasn't daring to make him feel bad because I didn't do it with other people with priority rights. But I'm begging you, let's get back to the point. I'll read the order of factual remarks. František Laudát, Kristýna Zelienková, colleague Černoch, colleague Benešík. So far, they're logged in to actual notes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u42	Thank you. For one thing, I don't think you need to look for an even bigger proof of who's causing chaos here. I'd say a plus or a minus standard rule of law in third reading. And here you've seen what the smartest man in the state here is, at least he thinks he's talking about himself. Totally out of order and stuff - under normal circumstances, this would be an exact demonstration of obstruction. He was always blaming that someone was talking about the Willows, and now you've seen for yourself. I wasn't the one who caused the breakup, ending the House on Friday. If you don't call this chaos or misunderstanding or inability to take care of the House's running, discussing points, I don't know what's gonna happen after that. And then it's just like the prosperity you're building here. I didn't cause a split here, and it was your club that didn't pass the anti-smoking law. They had a fight without you, and then you just said from Zlinsko that they were coalition scams. And the coalition plus the other two partners in the coalition were silent. Then I don't know what more you want. In the past, the House has never actually scored 150 points in front of it so long, which are on the agenda and are still being handed over from one meeting to another. I'm saying we could have started voting today. You sent it into this, and I hope you're not going out on Friday to hand out doughnuts or to deal with some of the world's problems again, you'll be here and finally we'll vote this bill in some way and send it to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u43	Thank you. You test my patience very much. Now, Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, with a point of fact. I understand that you are responding to the debate, but please get to the point. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also really surprised at the course of this debate, this debate. There's a lot of stuff going on here. RPSN has been working out here, and the Rules of Procedure have been dealt with. Mr. Babiš's trips to the regions were addressed. I'm sorry, but it really seems to me from the performance of some previous speakers that this is an obstruction and that we are not concerned with approving consumer credit or consumer credit law. In this area, the amounts are charged in hundreds of billions of crowns. And I know there are enormous pressures from the loan sharks, from the executors. So I'm just hoping that Friday will be okay, because there's no way we're gonna make it today. And that our Members will not change their positions until Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Zelienková. Even for guessing that we're not really going to vote today. Now a colleague of Černoch and then a colleague of Benešík with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u46	A real comment on Mrs. Kristýna Zelienková, through you. A little while ago, you were standing over there with me, screaming passionately that the motion wouldn't be dealt with because of me. For me. That you'd put me in the media, that I was responsible, that the motion wouldn't be approved. Are you kidding me, colleague? The fact that I am responding to our amendment seems like a delay to you? Or are you saying that me or my Dawn colleagues are under pressure from the executor lobby? Through, Mr President, thank you. We're not. Your President - Minister Babiš here just now said about where he was. I wonder if you're gonna go and yell at him the same way you yelled at me a little while ago. I wanted to go back to that point because we just want to discuss the facts that are around our proposal and about this bill. Just like my question. And by doing so, I return to my colleague Klašek, through you. Question - how many loan sharks have been convicted. I say we welcome this proposal because we want to fight against usury. We want to fight the executions and executors of the dishonest. But that's why I'm asking how many loan sharks have been convicted. If RPSN, ceilinging RPSN is not a form of how to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Benešík was lenient and checked out of the factual note. We're going to continue the discussion. Mrs Zelienková is duly registered. Yes, he's canceling his application. In that case, my colleague, Karel Fiedler, still in the third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So unfortunately, according to the time shown on the board, it is evident that 22 minutes at this point will probably not be enough for us to discuss 108 - vote amendments. [[A reminder off the microphone.]] Sorry, seven minutes. Yes, I forgot, election point at 12.45. So don't let Mr Zelienková be angry through the President. It was a useless performance, I guess. But I'll cut to the chase. Not to mention we took a turn here and heard about Friday's trips. Increasing the financial literacy of citizens, that was here. I believe that it would also not be a matter of increasing the financial self-sufficiency of those citizens so that they do not have to borrow seven thousand on a washing machine. I can understand that he will borrow for housing, that he will borrow for an apartment, that he will eventually borrow for a car, but many of them are in such a financial situation that he has to borrow for three, four thousand crowns. I'll take the liberty of mentioning what I've been dealing with. They've been running after you, too. Such gentlemen also followed me, and they came to convince me of the need for some amendments to be voted out. Specifically, it was the G1 amendment, for which I give a fundamental no. The amendment that spoke of the so-called Tippers. And when I was discussing with them, I asked them such an insidious question: What is your annual percentage rate of cost? Seventy percent. They talked about how they were helping these citizens, how they were doing them well. I threw them out at that point. Unfortunately, many citizens won't do it. I did it at the time, and I stopped talking to them about it in any way I could. [[12.40 hours]] It is my fundamental guide for why I will not support Amendment G1. It has to do with what we're talking about here. It has been said that the citizens borrow voluntarily. He said that, I think, Mr. Klaška, I'm not sure right now, but I think so. Through the President, my colleague, I have found in the investigation that is taking place here that there are so-called tippers who are guessing who these loans would have been imposed on those insidiously expensive loans. This isn't about these people wanting to borrow. They were trying to secure a commission for whoever tipped off who they could impose the loan on, even though he didn't ask for it himself. We're talking about this situation in the financial market. Let's be aware of that. Mrs Langšádlová said to leave the RPSN, through Mr President, following what I just said, my colleague, it's like giving the burner a hot rod. That's exactly what this is. The burner doesn't know where to go with the money anymore, and we're gonna get him into another financial mess. That is why I think it should be covered, as colleagues here have said - 900 percent or even thousands. We should do our best. What my colleague Gabal said, I completely agree with that. Many of these companies provide loans, and as I just said, they impose and don't even think about whether they are or are not reversible. It's not about whether the loan is paid. That's where she's going to get somebody to start that financial carousel, that financial carousel that breaks people's neck. That is why I believe, fellow Members, that we should consider very seriously whether this problematic ceiling - we have already discussed it here once, when the proposal here, the amendment was a while ago - has or has no meaning. Based on what I've been through here and what I've heard about how it is, I think it makes sense. Let's think about one crucial thing. If a client who takes out a loan needs it or wants it, does not comply with a banking sector that has rules on whether or not the client is able to repay, his credit is not changed by switching to another institute, non-bank or grey zone. His ability to repay, respectively. Don't pay back, it's still the same. And if we give it to these tigers, who are just waiting to get their product, and they don't think so much about whether or not it's able to repay, whether it's a loan that's going to be repaid or that's going to fall into some other regime, then we're not doing these people much good. That is why I think that we should really consider whether or not the amendment did. Let the author of Amendment G1 not be angry with me, I am radically opposed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u49	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. I would ask him that I should like to end the debate after his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u50	Vice-President, I'm really embarrassed because I'm obviously not gonna make it. I will speak only to the point and to individual amendments. Maybe I'll use those two minutes to start my show. I agree with much of what has been said here. Both Mr Gabal and the rapporteur said that we should think about the fact that there are a million executions per year. I agree with that. However, when I bring as an opposition member an amendment which could prevent unnecessary executions, the position of the Ministry of Finance is against me for incomprehensible reasons. It's what collection agencies do. This means at the moment you negotiate - everyone can become, lose their jobs, get sick, really a person who has fulfilled his obligations regularly so far, that suddenly he can't. And pre-emption is also a payment schedule agreement. It's much more effective, it's about the more responsible. When I suggested that the negotiation of payment schedules should not be subject to such strict regulation as consumer credit, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is, if I simplify it, that the conclusion of the payment schedule is a new consumer credit. But that's not true. On the contrary, it would help many to avert imminent execution. I have several numbers at my disposal. Incas agencies deal with around 1.66 miles a year. claims, individual cases, for a total of more than 21 billion. Crowns. Of which 85 per cent are claims on individuals. And I don't think there's any need to make it difficult to create payment schedules, and to allow those people to avoid executions. So I'm asking everyone when they vote on this amendment to try and forget who's signed under it, that it's me on the opposition side, and they're trying to consider supporting the proposal. Or do you really think -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-005-160.u51	Mr President, I have no choice but to interrupt you. I am not doing this by my authority right now, but by my duty under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. I interrupt the general debate at third reading. I cannot do otherwise because I have interrupted the performance of my colleague Stanjura, so I have not fulfilled my ambition to conclude the debate. And I'm interrupting point 160. According to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies at 12.45, which has just passed, we will be dealing with electoral points. Our first step is
