ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u1	38. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /German press 666/ - first reading We are at first reading and I will ask, next to the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, that Mr Roman Procházka, who is the rapporteur for first reading, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. I note that we dealt with this House press on 22 April this year, and we interrupted it in the general debate during the speech by Mrs Jana Černochová. I therefore ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur has an interest in speaking before the start, to rephrase. No. [[There's a lot of excitement in the hall.]] In that case, Mrs Jana Černochová's speech continues. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I will not repeat what I said at the first hearing of this bill. I would merely say that the proposal was prepared wrong. The design is contradicted by experts in the area of conservation. Several associations opposed this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u3	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Please move other discussions outside the O.R. and let the lady present her speech in peace. It's already been interrupted once by interrupting this point. I hope you will accept that it is necessary for her to present this calmly. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u4	I have said quite detailed what is at odds with the bill, and I have also announced that I will propose that this bill be rejected at first reading, or that I will propose that this bill be recast. So that's what I'm doing, and I'm not going to prolong my performance. I said all the essentials of what was to be said, so I refer to what was said before the summer holidays, I suspect it was sometime in May or June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u5	Again, it was April 22nd. Now the words will be taken by Mrs Marta Semelová, who I do not see here, so her application is forfeit. In that case, Mrs Nina Nováková, who is also not. Her application is also failing. In that case, my colleague Jiří Junek. And a colleague of mine, Semelová and Nováková, if she arrives, I will eventually summon them. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I have prepared such a longer justification for the proposed amendment, what is good about it, what is wrong with it, but I will probably cut it short. However, I would like to begin by saying that the present monument law of 1987, respectively. 1988, although not so old, despite many amendments it cannot reflect changes that occurred after 1989, let it be a huge building boom, established demands for modern housing, participation of associations in public life, including protection of architectural heritage, etc. etc. So the changes after 1989 were so great that they touched a lot at the time of the almost new law, and it is therefore necessary to work in some way into the current amendment, the new current law. In specific cases, we see that the current law cannot protect many monuments from devastation. We have seen this quite often. Nor can it protect the overall character and character of the conservation zones. The reasons that are - there are more, I would name only some, among other things it is on the one hand - the law does not give the body any tool to enforce obligations in the illegal handling of real estate in a conservation reserve or zone. That's on one side. On the other hand, the owners of real estate are in conservation reserves and zones without such property being cultural monuments, so they are imposed a number of restrictions without the possibility of providing compensation from State resources for these restrictions in the public interest. Those are two things that are actually going against each other and that the current law doesn't solve. [[17.50 hours]] I could give other examples of what this existing law lacks. For example, the participation of associations in the protection of architectural heritage. I could also name in the area of archaeology where the current law does not respond to new methods of archaeological research. Just remember that huge metal detector boom, etc. The law also doesn't solve research on archaeological research, and it's just a framework solution to those rescue archaeological researches. Further, what the old law could be ruled out is the absence of verification of the expertise of persons engaged in regulated activities. It also does not address final restoration reports etc. etc. What I think is also a great weakness of the old or existing law is that it does not really allow for the expropriation of cultural monuments. When the owner, owner, cares for her badly, or respectively. Doesn't matter, so there's virtually no way to expropriate this cultural monument. I could name a whole series of things that are inadequate or lacking, but I guess that's not that important. Clearly, then, time calls for a completely new law that will respond comprehensively to changes in society over the past 25 years, as I have said. I guess I won't discuss what the new law contains anymore. Now all the things I've listed, the new law contains or corrects. Of course, it's also included in the explanatory memorandum, so I won't bother you with that, to include you. I would rather look at the things that I personally lack in that law, or I find them redundant and burden, for example, the work of archaeologists, so I would say here, just some of them. As far as archeology is concerned, one of the things that bothers me, and I think in general in that archaeological community is the introduction of a whole new thing in terms of rescue archaeological research, and that is called. research project. There is quite a lot of criticism or disgust among archaeologists. It's logical. It is another relatively large administrative burden. Archaeologists are already quite widely included in the administration. Instead of conducting basic archaeological research, their evaluation, they wrote finder reports, so they spend enough time with another administration, which makes them extremely burdened. It is these projects that would continue to contribute to this. And paradoxically, these research projects would actually assume that an archaeologist would be based on something he doesn't really know and what the research itself will show him. That means the project would want the archaeologist to say how much it's going to cost, what it's going to do, what it's going to do, what it's going to do, etc., and it doesn't actually know until it gets to that country. So a little bit of a paradoxical thing. How can we deal with this? Personally, I think that such an appropriate instrument would be the introduction of archaeological standards of professional work. They would clearly say or lay down certain criteria under which archaeological research is carried out. They would set some boundaries, some frameworks, and actually an investor would know roughly what he could expect from archaeological research in some volume and how much the costs should be. So that would be a solution that would be good to talk about. I see another weakness in archeology in this law - the issue of a binding opinion in the field of archaeology. It is specifically that the procedure in the draft law is disproportionately complex in practice for the builder and it is burdensome for the conservation authorities. It would also allow, in my opinion, to influence oerpéček officials by offering or coercing them to assess certain intentions as if they could not harm the archaeological heritage, and not to be entered in the records of interventions. Once again, there is a possible solution, such that a binding position is replaced by the entry of a notice into the intervention log. One last thing, I guess. Archaeology, that's all I'm gonna say, missed hits. In short, there might be a situation where there are no archaeological persons to report any interferences, and suddenly the interferences would be blonds, or no one would turn themselves in, no one would do the rescue archaeological research. Here it was the solution to the law to add, for example, that such research or interventions are then carried out by a conservation institute, that it is he or the person responsible to provide them. So it's just a few comments on the provisions of the new law or drafts of the law relating to archaeology. One of my comments on monument care, namely that, in my opinion, the principle of a comprehensive approach in terms of conservation of the monument is lacking in the proposal, along with its environment, which is not to be disruptive and not to reduce the cultural value of the monument. So the point is that we are protecting this particular monument, but in what environment it is, we will somehow devalue it, or it may happen that, although we are protecting an object of monuments, the use of it degenerates the memory in such a way that it loses its meaning and meaning. This should be better addressed by the law so that it does not happen, and it should be dealt with in some way. This is just some of the comments that I would like to discuss in the committees, and I would like them to somehow get into the body of the law. Finally - and I hope that the discussions in the committees will be correct, that clear arguments will fall. I'd just react here. It was a very long time ago, it was in April, but my colleague Černochová here said, among other things, that most of the landmarks were defined in the time of socialism. It's not true, please. I checked that information. At the time of socialism, 44 percent of the conservation areas and not a single conservation zone were defined. Maybe my colleague here also said in April that in the new law... The bill was defamatory, and it was something according to her that interferes with the individual's freedom, and that it is a sort of instrument of over-regulation of today's day. I would just like to say that the regulation on conservation is not even an invention of modern times or socialism, it has been working here for almost 150 years, and that is why we have a large number of monuments here. We have monuments that we boast about and that tourists from all over the world come to visit us here. So regulation has helped us to brag today. Otherwise, for your interest, at the time of the interwar, at the time of the first Republic, Prague had very strict regulation. And I think we can be glad that it is thanks to these regulations from the first Republic of Prague that it looks like it is the attraction for tourists. I'd just like to point that out. In conclusion, it is only possible that the law will not, of course, solve a number of other problems of monument care. Only at random would I mention a very low and weak evaluation of the staff of conservation care. This, of course, leads to the fact that there is a huge turnover of employees. The problem is that, quite often, the decisions of conservation workers are different, they don't follow up on each other, and that's quite a big problem. [[18.00 hours]] There must also be a major problem with the lack of funding for building historical surveys, e.g. only in monuments owned by the state. A number of monuments owned by the state still do not have a historical construction survey, which is certainly also a great lack. And, of course, in general, lack of funds in conservation care. But we could keep going, of course, that won't solve the law. He's got other things on his mind. I'd like us to let him go into second reading, discuss the problems there, including the ones I outlined here, and we've managed to get the law done to everyone's satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u7	I thank Mr Jiří Junek and we will continue the debate. First, the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u8	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I do not share Mr Junek's optimism, and I do not think that the law can be corrected in committees. Not really. And here he pointed out a number of practical problems that really exist, but on which this bill either doesn't respond or doesn't solve them at all. I think a nice example is the city's landmark zones, so we can stay at the lower level. These are the buildings that don't use conservation. And those restrictions for the owners are huge. There are enormous financial costs. And how does he behave? The state says it's in the public interest to make something happen. I understand that. And you, dear owner, pay for it. Whether the owner is a municipality or a private owner. Of course, this brings a number of practical problems and also very often a sense of injustice towards those owners. If you live in a city like me, when, in fact, in the urban landmark zone, whole blocks had to be built after World War II, and now you'll find that even these houses, which are basically completely ordinary, now I don't give it a sign or a negative or a positive sign, all of a sudden they follow such strict rules that bring financial costs, so don't be surprised that people can't explain it. And unfortunately, there is no change in the bill. Maybe we could start from somewhere else. In the city monument zone in Opava, there are some of the worst, or if not in the worst condition, objects belonging to the state. State, you hear me well. And nothing's happened for years. I'm not saying it's just this government. Nothing's happened for years. And it's true that in front of some of the objects today there's also a ban on passage so that something doesn't fall on his head, etc. Shouldn't he be the first to get his attention? I think he did. He's supposed to set an example. And here the public interest in the protection of cultural heritage is actually clashing with, without a doubt, monument care is part of the cultural heritage, whether municipal or private. The state that sets the rules should and I think it must participate financially. And that's a significant amount. Unfortunately, this bill does not think about that. Then, of course, and Mr Junek spoke of it, here we have a two-track care facility. Anyone who has planned or handled any building permits, for example within the city's landmark zone, has experience. That's the ones on the ORP, that is. municipalities with extended scope, and then they are conservation authorities. And if we want to simplify it, and that's what we want, then we should remove the two-track. Because it doesn't make any sense. Not really. And then a practical problem, that's archeology. Very often, and I'm going to talk about traffic construction, it's been known for years where the route will lead. And when does archaeological research begin to be considered? Very often after the competition. Very often this brings additional costs, the reasons were mentioned by Mr Junek. And I think they're relevant, that if it doesn't start, it's very difficult to estimate the problem. Here you're referring to the Public Procurement Act, more costs. And then an even worse parameter, and again, it's not the ones who do the research, that's the time of realization. I don't know which one of you has the experience of an investment event that you have a state or a national, and even worse, a European grant. And now the legitimate public interest of the state is about to enter into it to conduct an archaeological survey, and suddenly your costs are growing and your time is running out, and you're under pressure not to close the contract, and you're not going to finish it in the time you have. It's quite common, I understand, but if hours or costs don't stop there, it is, of course, a burden on both the investor and the supplier. I'm not always saying that, but there are many such cases. And I think there's quite a lot of contradictions, and I really think it's better to get back to work and have that debate one more time. I really don't think we're able to fix that at second reading. It is possible that someone will write a comprehensive amendment, which will be taken as a basis and will continue to work with it. But I don't consider such a procedure to be reasonable, predictable and correct in this area. Let us try to suppress political prestige this time when we vote on it. I don't even see it at all, if we return it to work, like some kind of defeat of government or a minister, it's too serious for that matter, it's not entirely political, but I think a thorough debate still needs it. I regret, of course, that the government coalition has enforced this bill in negotiations after eight months since the first debate took place. My colleague Jana Černochová said she wouldn't delay it, but in truth, which one of us still remembers? Which one of us read the tape before today? It would be so much better for the debate if the performance were repeated, but then we would probably be accused of being obsessed. And we've heard it before: why are you bothering us again? But perhaps the Minister and his people took that time, and maybe the Minister will respond to comments, suggestions, ideas, but also the criticism that was made here in April. In eight months, it could have been processed by the D.O.D. Perhaps the Minister will convince us that we will eventually withdraw the proposal. Although I don't think so. And really, this thing is problematic. There are many of us who have experience in local politics. If we don't make these rules clearer, simpler, clearer, more understandable, then we're really gonna hurt the conservation of the area that deserves support, rather than helping her. So that's why I choose such moderate words and such a moderate tone, Minister, and I don't think we really have to send it to second reading at all costs, and now, quickly, quickly, try to fix it somewhere. That the things Mr Junek spoke of, I would say that there are basically problems that he has described. And he himself said it was just some of the problems. That was far from an exhausting overview of what it was. Because maybe we can first agree on what the objective of this amendment is for each bill. What exactly is the target? And then let's talk, if we agree on that goal, then let's talk about the tools to achieve that goal. And when we agree on tools, then let's get down to those paragraphs. We very often go the other way around completely illogically. First, we go to the sections, we start to see what the exact wording of the sixth indent is in the eighth paragraph of the third paragraph of Title I of Article 3 is, and forgets the debate, what it is for, what the objective is, and if the instruments we choose to meet and achieve the goal are the right ones. So maybe we could go back two levels higher. First talk and talk about the goals, then talk about the tools, and then jump into the sections. And not the other way around. Because then the result is very trivial. And it won't do me any good, Minister, so we won't end up with the copyright law, where there are dozens of amendments, if I have a good number, we'll vote about 66 times. How's that gonna work out? What do you think's gonna happen? Wrong. Wrong. I'll use this writing word. It's gonna be bad. And here, if we put it into second reading, I predict that the amendments will be the same amount, if not more. And it's gonna be bad here. So I think we're going to go back and talk about it, and working on it is the right way to do it, and at any cost, we're done with it, and we're going to put it into second reading, and it's going to work out somehow in those committees. [[18.10 hours]] What is interesting and what is always evidence of the quality of the proposal presented, virtually. about how it's discussed. If you look, if all the amendments were only from the opposition, this could be seen as a dispute between the government and the opposition. But if you look at who is the author of the amendments, you will see that a significant percentage, a really significant percentage, is from among government MPs. I don't deny them that right. It just illustrates that the law is not well discussed. And remember the service bill, we also had a comprehensive amendment, first of all, it was a parliamentary bill, here I see one of the authors, and here's the other co-author who spoke a moment ago. A comprehensive amendment, with dozens of amendments. Okay, we agreed on some basic principles. That's what I'm applying for. Several dozens of our amendments you have rejected to say now, we need to fix it quickly, practice has shown problems. And you're forgetting a little bit to say, the opposition was actually right, they said it in advance, we didn't believe her, but practice showed that we had to change that law. I'm saying there's a similar situation with the copyright law. I don't know if he's gonna make it this week or not. I believe not, because I don't think the bill deserves to be approved by the House in such a risky shape with so many dozen amendments. I'm afraid the same situation might happen here. And I'm saying it's not worth it, it's much better to have a similar debate. If you want to give another example, let's call it building law. We have a construction law here. I have been approached by government Members that a comprehensive amendment is being prepared and that we are willing to cooperate on it. I say we're prepared to cooperate on such a proposal. But is that the right method? Will we be able to get through the building bill at first reading, so that then government MPs, not opposition, come up with a comprehensive amendment, and then dozens of amendments to all the ordinary ones who might not be able to take the scale of the complex? [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] I think that for such standards that are not really political, which should apply for a long time, a longer debate is simply appropriate. From the noise level, I hear you don't care most of the time. [[Instant objection from the diaper.]] I said most, I didn't say no one cared. And it's a shame. That's the thing where if we find a match, we do good goals, good tools, so the law can be stable, and it doesn't have to change very often. In the shape in which it is presented, it just won't be stable. I don't know from my head, I sometimes look into the ECLEP, but I might ask the Minister or the rapporteur how many comments were made in the standard inter-ministerial commentary procedure, how many were said. How were they settled? Have they been processed or have they been rejected? Do the discussions and amendments repeat the comments from the inter-ministerial commentary procedure or will they not be repeated? So try to consider one more time and come with us to give the minister time to look at it one more time, so that he can conduct the debate maybe before it goes to the government, so that we can prepare a really good bill in the area of conservation. And we didn't talk about how they're actually supposed to be created beyond that - for example, in the urban landmark zone, if you want to create a regulatory one. That's almost impossible in today's legislation. I would like to hear from the Minister when we adopt this bill, whether the negotiation and approval of regulation in urban conservation zones or in urban conservation reserves will be easier than today. I don't know who ever tried it. But it's so bureaucratic. And that's a long shot. And that is precisely the problem that Mr Junek has been talking about, and I agree with him that it is not enough to protect not only the concrete construction, but also the surrounding areas - lids, roofs, roof types. You're not actually gonna do that without the regulators. And I'm saying whether any of you have tried what it's like to suggest, discuss, even discuss, to even get approval at the level of the council, regulation in the city's landmark zone. That's actually impossible today. And the key question is - because the goal is good, is that the goal on which I agree with Mr Junk that we must protect the whole space, or at least the premises that deserve protection - do we have the tools to do so? Is that okay? Or it won't work, and it'll be in a classic building trial, where even if those officials don't like it, they won't have any tools to say, be careful. At the moment you have regulation, so able in the most valuable locations, again, to not use the tool across the board, it is necessary to say in the most valuable locations, so that we are able to prepare, discuss and possibly approve the regulation at all. [[You're not? - unintelligible]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u9	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. But he made two factual remarks, so colleague Semelová will wait. First Mr Roman Váňa, then Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have only been in state conservation care for a short time, only for about ten years, last time as director of the Central Bohemia Memorial Institute, so that was a long time ago too, I do not want to comment on this too much. To what the previous speaker said, the chairman, the so-called double-trackness of conservation, is logical. The National Monument Institute as a professional body, which defends and protects the interests of conservation care, and the professional bodies of those ORPs, which then decide on the basis of the institution's documentation and which should also bring those decisions into line with life, with reality, because they must also take into account other things other than the interests of state conservation care. Then there's the logic. If it works that way and both of these institutions understand their role, it makes sense. But other than that, it's that foreman in front of me, a colleague of Junek. I must say that his reservations, which are based on deep expertise, are absolutely relevant. For my part, it's a shame that this bill probably wasted a chance to improve state conservation in this country. And unfortunately, I'm afraid that can't be fixed in committees. So there is, in fact, the opposition of more or less all the professional organizations involved, that's a united front that opposed the law. And I must say, these are people who should then, out of conviction, continue to bring him to life. And I don't think that's gonna work. I don't think that's gonna work, since at the beginning, the resistance is so strong across all the disciplines, the whole spectrum of conservation. Thank you for your understanding and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u11	I thank Mr Váňa for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Junek, also with a factual remark. A colleague, Stanjura, will be prepared to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u12	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to what my colleague Stanjura said. It's four notes. Yes, I've ruled out some things for the law, I'm sure, but otherwise I've assessed that the law has its positives, it's important. And I've listed a whole series of things that they're dealing with, referring to what was wrong or is wrong in the current law. Another thing is that there will be a lot of amendments and that this shows that the law is not good. It always will be. This is a law and topic where disagreement will always be great, because on the one hand you have the interests of investors, owners etc., which are mostly totally diametrically different from the interests of archaeologists, monument care etc. There is a conflict, and there will always be amendments, and one of those parties will always feel dissatisfied. The only thing I would say about archeology is that it said here that archeology delays, increases costs, etc. I don't think that's exactly true today. If you're planning a construction, you're gonna have to count on that archaeology. A substantial part of the territory of the Czech Republic is the territory with archaeological findings almost everywhere, if we are not talking about mining, etc., you must expect the archeology to be there. And it has to be calculated in the price, in the price of the building, and also in the time design. Now that D35 is being prepared in our country, archaeologists have done enough research on springs, collections, etc. to draw attention to where what is located in the route planned for the 35th and what is to be expected. So I don't really think there's a problem like that. And if I'm not mistaken, the last thing, that's the contribution of the state to the owners who own houses, but which aren't a monument in the landmark zone, that's what the law should be dealing with, and--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u13	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Now one more factual point by Mr Stanjura, then a duly registered colleague Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u14	The worst thing that can happen to you in the Czech language is that you have a translator and an interpreter. The phrase that I supposedly said that archeology was stalling and expensive sounded completely different. That's not what I said. I said that this legitimate public interest of the state, and I note legitimate and correct, comes across a specific problem when you have a grant and you have terms and a competitive price. That sounds completely different than saying that sentence: Archaeology delays and is expensive. That's what I'm saying, that's not what I'm saying, and if anybody understood it that way, it's my fault, I misinterpreted it, so I hope I've explained it better the second time. And with the R35, it's the right example. We've known for years where the building will run. And he was supposed to be doing an archaeological survey. He should have done it by now. That's the problem I'm talking about, that the state is supposed to be one step ahead of investment in this area and not link it to a specific investment event. Mr Váňa here quite well documented how much disapproval or opposition to this bill is in professional circles. It wasn't about private owners and investors at all. So far, all we're talking about is how professional circles and organizations evaluate it, and that's what Jana Černochová was talking about. I was just saying that it's very hard to explain to someone who has a normal apartment building, that he can't have a plastic window that the landlord doesn't recognize from the outside. I've been there. There was a house, we had an honest citizen who didn't want to put plastic windows like some of his neighbors, the landlords were against it, he said wooden. So I take them there and I say which window is plastic and which wooden. They didn't know. And you're explaining to the owner that he's supposed to pay more money because that's what the state wants when even the body of landmark care can't tell because it looked exactly the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In response to my colleague Junek, I would also object to the fact that someone here defends some of the interests of private owners. I am the mayor of the city district of Prague 2, which is half the territory of the sightseeing zone, from the second half of the monument reserve. In our territory there is a national cultural monument Vyšehrad. We win a wide range of awards of regeneration of monuments in Prague 2 as the self-government of the city section. It really seems absurd to me that the debate only flattens into the fact that somebody here is defending some private owners' interests. I would like to ask Minister Herman, because I actually have one neuralgic point in Prague 2, which I do not know what to do with. It is a railway station Vyšehrad, which is a national cultural monument. For years, the Prague 2 district has been fighting to avoid this memory from the point of view of the construction proceedings of the Railway Authority, but to at least be the construction office of the Prague 2 district, and I have written several letters to various ministers of culture, I have written several letters to representatives of the Prague City Hall to help the private owner solve this problem from the point of view of existing legislation. And under existing legislation, but unfortunately, even in the future, it will not shift to any change. I would like to ask the Minister of Culture Herman here to deal with this immutable cultural monument as a minister. That house really rots week by week. He has applied several fines that our office could have imposed, but there is nothing else we can do about it, and the new law will not solve any problems in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u17	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Marta Semelová, I state my apologies: Mr Vojtěch Adam from 18:00, Mrs Květa Matušovská from 18:30. And now, Mrs Marta Semelová, duly applied for. [[There is still a huge noise in the hall, especially from ČSSD Members.]] Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, and it is surprising to me that this time, in many of the reservations, I agree with President Stanjura. I think that the conservation law is one of those that provoke a great debate, and it is logical that we have also received a number of emails with opinions and arguments for and against this amendment. I do not share the optimism of the Minister of Culture, whom we met here during the previous discussion, or his belief that there was an agreement with professional circles during the preparation. Although the proposed text supports the Association for the Support of Monuments, the Club for Old Prague and the Artistic Society, it should be noted, however, that opinions that reject the amendment significantly prevail. The Association of Associations for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic, the Czech Chamber of Architects, the Institute of Monument Care of the Faculty of Architecture of the Czech Technical University, participants in the Conference of History of Constructions, Association for the Construction Historical Survey, Association of Professional Men of Monument Care and more. [[The noise in the hall in the ranks of ČSSD MEPs does not stop.]] As regards specific reservations, the Association of Associations for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic draws attention to the fact that the new version of the Act does not protect the most valuable in current economic conditions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u19	Madam, I will interrupt you too and ask the House for peace. Please discuss problems other than sightseeing in the foyer. I really ask all my colleagues very seriously! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u20	This association draws attention to the fact that the new version of the law in current economic conditions does not protect the most valuable and at the same time the most endangered part of our cultural heritage, these are our historic cities. It perceives them only as a territory with a high concentration of individual cultural monuments. The nominally unprotected building, which is an integral part of the values of each historic city, remains outside any protection for any misuse of the developer. This lack opens up the possibility of destruction of conservation cities by constructions that destroy the very monuments and protected areas as a whole. It is not enough to reconstruct the cultural monument, it is equally important to provide it with an adequate environment, a harmonious context with its surroundings. The new monument law does not protect these values, on the contrary, it allows them to be destroyed. Vice President of the Association of the Association for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic . arch. Marie Švábová points out that § 32 para. 4 allows for the removal of parcels and parcels within the landmark zone from the landmark area, where it will not be necessary to request the treatment of landmark care. In such an isolated area, for example in the centre of Prague, anyone can build whatever they want. Can you imagine the chaos that this can cause in particular in the capital's territory, but also elsewhere? That the entire land of monuments could be destroyed? It is not enough only to protect the memory itself, but also to protect spatial relations. It's the space in conservation cities that's the most valuable thing we've got there. However, the law allows aggressive architecture to enter these protected spaces based on the advertising design of developers. The exclusion of the obligation to apply for a binding opinion of conservation care should therefore not appear in the law at all. It is true that the participant has the right to initiate inspection of the Ministry of Culture monument inspection, but this is possible only after the issuance of a territorial decision or building permit. The complaint does not have suspensive effect for further work on the preparation of the construction. Another person who disagrees with the form of the amendment is the Czech Chamber of Architects, with the fact that instead of defining values and rational and effective protection, it is a comprehensive and inconspicuous standard focusing on detailed descriptions of partial activities and comprehensive regulation of certain professions. Architectural works, architects and results of his work, designing are not sufficiently formulated in the draft law. The authors focus only on the maintenance and preservation of conservation of conservational objects and ignore the fact that monuments are also used by people and from this point of view the demands for real functionality are placed on them. In addition, the Czech Chamber of Architects also criticises the course of preparation and settlement of comments with the fact that this settlement took place, regardless of the importance of the law, quickly and under time pressure. [[18.30 hours]] The amendment is fundamentally rejected by participants in the conference History of Constructions. They consider the proposal to be complex and inconspicuous, whose priority is not to protect and explore historical buildings, but to bureaucratize the field. By allowing public access only to photographs taken from a publicly accessible place, access to the documentation of the immovable part of the conservation fund is substantially restricted. At the same time, access to the broadest public is a prerequisite for successful conservation of monuments. The Association for Construction Historical Surveys would also consider the adoption of this amendment to be unfortunate. This claims that the proposal is not directed to the necessary nature of conservation, i.e. to protect monuments as an essential part of the environment and to its corresponding value as a material historical source. With the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund, the Association of Professional Mental Care Workers also has a problem. In his view, the amendment significantly reduces the scope of the conservation of national cultural heritage. In contrast to the current state, it vaguely defines which works on cultural monuments fall within the jurisdiction of the authorities of state conservation care. It excludes from these authorities a number of activities in conservation zones, newly defines the territory without the need to carry out archaeological research, does not set the key according to which the executive bodies of state conservation care are to assess interventions at conservation sites. In addition to the de facto limitation of the protection of the conservation fund, the law also significantly narrows down, complicates it until it makes it impossible to document the architectural heritage. This is a weakening of the positions of both fundamental pillars of all conservation care in civilized states. Moreover, the law does not define the protection of material cultural heritage as a public interest. Only the protection of a conservation fund, which is not and cannot be the whole material cultural heritage, is described as such. It weakens the role of the professional component in the care process of the conservation fund. At the same time, it allows for a number of interpretations, leading to legal disputes. In addition, it creates a concoction for corrupt and non-discriminatory negotiations. During the production he expressed a number of reservations and the Institute of Monument Care, Faculty of Architecture of the Czech Technical University, with the fact that a substantial part of the comments are not taken into account in the proposal. The Institute criticizes the resignation of the expertise and weakening of the role of the National Heritage Institute. A significant step backwards is that the obligation of the owners of the monuments to consult their intentions before processing the projects is removed from law. End of závěr. Cultural heritage represents the values that each society must protect for future generations. We are currently witnessing the devastation of a number of important cultural monuments. It is therefore necessary to adopt a law that will ensure their real protection. However, the form of the law, as it is presented, does not adequately fulfil this important task. That's why I suggest we get the law back to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u21	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one continues to report, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. The Minister will. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the proposed bill is a complex, very complex, expected fundamental legal standard, which aims primarily to highlight the public interest in the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund and to create conditions for the care of the fund necessarily linked to other related laws, in particular the administrative order, the construction law, the law on basic registers, the new civil code, the cadastral law and other legal standards. At the same time, it brings an essential element of transparency into the whole regulation. The Ministry of Culture has worked with entities affected by the care of the conservation fund, i.e. owners of important segments of cultural heritage, state and public authorities, civil associations, universities, independent experts and professional and research institutions throughout the preparation of the proposal. It is certainly not true that the bill is rejected by these institutions. It is true that discussions, expert discussions have been held, and it is now up to us to decide this debate. But I would like to thank President Stanjur for recalling this April of this year's report by Mrs Černochová, and I would like to comment on some of the sciences that were raised here at the time. In the context of the provisions of Sections 114 and 115 of the proposed regulation, my colleague has designated the person temporarily entitled to carry out regulated activities, in this case to perform restoration of cultural monuments, as a cheap workforce without qualifications. But these provisions are the transpositions of the fundamental principles of the European Union linked to the free movement of persons and services. These are persons who are authorized in the mother state of the European Union, there are restorers who want to carry out this activity also in the Czech Republic. So they are definitely not black unqualified forces. Moreover, on this point, it is about taking over the process from the existing State Heritage Act. In the context of the provisions of Section 138, it was said that a number of matters on which the construction office does not decide under the construction law should be decided by the body of conservation care. However, a very large and extremely valuable part of the monument fund are movable cultural monuments whose modifications, or even restoration, cannot be assessed by the building office under the construction law. This will also be the case when some construction works are carried out, which are essential from a conservation point of view, such as for example. restoration of Baroque ceiling fresco. It was also said that, in addition to foundations and associations, they should be able to speak for the public and ask for information in advance on all the proceedings initiated, as well as the municipalities and urban areas on whose territory the works relating to the protection of architectural heritage will be discussed. However, this right, together with the explicit status of the party to the proceedings, confers a construction law in the context of the territorial proceedings in which the building authorities have pursuant to Section 90 (b). (b) the construction law assess the construction worker's intention, inter alia. from the point of view of the requirements for the protection of architectural values in that territory. As strong a position as the municipalities certainly do not have associations and other institutions in the construction law to protect the architectural heritage. However, the status of municipalities and urban areas according to the construction law does not change the draft law. It was also said that in connection with the definition of landmarks the current landmarks were issued, respectively. declared, usually in times of socialism, without meeting the requirements of the current bill. However, this does not fully correspond to the reality, because at that time there was not a single conservation zone and only about 44 percent of the conservation reserves. Finally, here also in connection with the content of Section 3 letters. (g) the proposed law was mentioned, and the point describes the work on real estate, which is not a cultural monument, but is located in the land of monuments and in connection with a specific example. Havlíčkův's orchards were mentioned here as an example, but Havlíčkův's orchards are a cultural monument and the provisions of Section 3 letters. (g) the proposed law does not apply to them as a cultural monument. However, we have had a good look at this speech and the important remarks made in it, and I am coming from what has been said. I also want to appreciate what has been said today that the care of the city district of Prague 2 about monuments and especially about Vyšehrad, the national cultural monument, is truly exemplary. I know because I lived there for nine years. [[18.40 hours]] As far as Vyšehrad railway station is concerned, this is indeed a very trifle state. It has also been mentioned here that this is a matter of private problems and legislative action is difficult at the moment. However, I very much welcome this initiative, and I would definitely like to join forces on this issue, because it is an important monument that is at this moment crippling the face of Prague in this area, and we should try to do something about it. And I believe that we have the opportunity, in cooperation with the Magistrate, to find a solution that would help. The various provisions that have been laid down here, which are proposed, must certainly be discussed in a comprehensive way, and that is what committee work serves to do. This is precisely why this draft should be released for second reading to discuss in detail all aspects of this provision for the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention to this bill, and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u23	That was the final word of the Minister of Culture. I'm asking the rapporteur. He's not interested. In that case, we will decide on the proposals that have been made in the debate. Mr rapporteur, follow me because this was a double debate, both in April and now. There have been proposals for a return and a motion for a rejection. First, then, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Of course, I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I've begun because I've asked my colleagues to have other discussions in the lobby, so we'll wait a little while for the number of entries to be settled. So I'm gonna run the gong one more time... On the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, we will decide in the vote number 132, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 132, from 125 present for 41, against 64. The motion was not accepted. In that case, we will vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading, in voting number 133, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the bill. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 133, from 126 in favour of 36, against 64. The proposal was not accepted either. Therefore, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone have a proposal for another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 134 and I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 134, from 127 in favour of 122, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Yes, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u24	I have two suggestions not to come twice. Firstly, I propose that we order this bill to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. That's where it belongs at least because of the two-track thing we talked about. At the same time, I would like to propose an extension of 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-010-038.u25	Yes. We will decide on the proposal for a commandment from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In this respect, we will vote in the 135 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 135 of 127 for 120, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another proposal, which was justified in the debate and was without a deadline, was specified by twenty days, not thirty, both possible. Twenty days we can therefore vote in the 136 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of extending the 20-day time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 136, from 127 in favour of 59, against 49. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal was further ordered to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the deadline for the hearing remained under the law for 60 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point 38. The next proposal to be addressed under the approved agenda is:
