ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u1	152. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and some other laws /house print 546/ - third reading I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš that he is already at the rapporteur's table as well as the rapporteur of the Guarantee Budget Committee, Mr Roman Kubíček. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 546/4, which was delivered on 20 January 2016, i.e. in time for today's negotiations. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as House Press 546/5. I'm asking the plaintiff if he's applying for a word. He's interested. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor. I'm asking the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a proposal for an amendment to the budgetary rules. The draft law presented contains, in particular, provisions extending the list of State Treasury entities, namely the General Health Insurance Company, other health insurance companies, associations of health insurance companies and the Railway Infrastructure Administration, and provisions relating to this extension. Since, as part of the second reading, the issue relating to the sub-accounting of health insurance companies has almost exclusively been discussed under the general account of the Treasury, I would therefore like to explain some questions here and assure you that the concerns expressed by some of you are not appropriate. Firstly, on the issue of the separation of the state budget from the public health insurance system. This is where colleagues Kučera and Heger performed. It is difficult to strictly separate state and other public funds. The public budget system is closely linked to the state budget. Moreover, the State controls other public bodies, sets rules for them, and this is one of them. The state subsidizes the system more than a quarter. This subsidy is growing absolutely relatively. Every time an interest group in health requires more funds, it also requires an increase in this subsidy from the state budget. Secondly, on the issue of the fear that the State would use the money to finance the state debt, colleagues Marková, Heger, Vilímec spoke. This is as pointless an argument as the claim that caring money is now being used by commercial banks to invest and loan clients. The funds will continue to be owned by health insurance companies and there is no risk that they could not be used for care. Thirdly, on the issue of concern that the solvency of health insurance companies in connection with the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance will be compromised, the deadline and scope of payments will be set for insurance undertakings. The comments were on the Health Committee - Mr Hovorka and Mr Skalický. The Ministry of Finance's intention is not for health insurance companies to have funds to pay to hospitals and doctors. Commercial banks, like other clients, are also setting limits on cashless and cash-free operations. For example, it is not possible for a representative of the insurance company to choose a billion crowns without prior notification in cash. Even banks must be reported with extraordinary withdrawals or over-the-counter payments in advance, so that funds are prepared in time and at a certain amount. The Ministry of Finance has been authorised for more than ten years to set deadlines and scope of the payment scheme for all state budget expenditures and to allow its exceptions. This includes, for example, payment for state insured persons or pension expenditure. This authorisation has never threatened the smooth implementation of the State's payment arrangements in history. Fourthly, on the issue of concern that this is a hidden path and the next step towards abolishing the pluralism of health insurance companies, Stanjura, Heger, Marková, spoke. The Treasury has no such intentions. It will only happen that instead of commercial banks, the Czech National Bank will hold accounts. This does not limit the main activity of insurance companies to the negotiation and payment of quality and available care for their insured persons. In addition, we offer an instrument to strengthen the competition of insurance companies through the prevention fund. Fifthly, to the question of fear that employee insurance companies will not have for preventive programs. Health Committee - Mr. Hovorka. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] For employee insurance companies, on average, interest income is only about one tenth of the resources to finance preventive programmes, interest rates are falling. So this is going to be a minor blackout. However, we are still proposing two new sources of the prevention fund in the amendment to the Employment Insurance Act: the transfer of the promil from the basic fund.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u3	Prime Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. This time, the right corner should be down. Thank you. You may proceed, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u4	There is savings on bank charges from this fund and unlimited transfer from the operational fund. The more efficient the insurance company will provide its operation, the more it can add to preventive programs. For another, the question of concern about the decline in the comfort of insurance payers was raised by Mr Stanjura. At the branches of insurance companies, insurance payers will continue to be able to pay by credit card through the terminal of one of the banks without needing an insurance account in the bank. It will be possible to continue receiving cash. It will be possible to deposit it into accounts with the Czech National Bank through branches of a commercial bank even where the branch of the Czech National Bank does not reside. Next, on the issue of fear that there is a risk of a loss of insurance premiums. A reminder from the Health Committee - colleague Hovorka. The blackouts can threaten those payers who don't register change. We therefore propose a transitional period for income accounts. For specific cases, such as long-term execution, a longer-term exception is possible. Next, on the issue of concern that the Czech National Bank will not be able to cope with the new obligations. A reminder of the Health Committee - Mr. Hovorka. If the Czech National Bank is now able to operate the Czech Social Security Administration, which records the same amount of insurance payers as all insurance companies combined, even more benefit recipients should not be a problem. On the issue of fear that a change will cost health insurance companies a lot of money. A reminder from the Health Committee - colleague Hovorka. The costs will be one-off to inform the payer about changes to the ICT system. However, they will be in the order of a few percent of the total operating costs, plus insurance companies are adjusting their ICT systems virtually constantly. [[13.50 hours]] Finally, by including the health insurance account under the general account of the Treasury, I would like to say that a slowdown in government debt growth and control over the management of selected entities will be achieved. The aim of the amendment is to generate budgetary savings by reducing the interest costs of financing sovereign debt, further improving the state's emission activity in the financial market and reducing the uncertainty in the financing of sovereign debt. However, the availability of funds held on selected accounts will not be limited by this amendment. [[It will be said]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u5	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I am now opening the debate. The first enrollment is Mr Vilímec, Mrs Marková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have performed at first and second reading on this press, and I have put my work to work to see how many amendments have been adopted since the year 2000. And there's 56 of them. When I was chewing through those amendments, it was very complicated, and it already makes me feel so unhappy that we're changing again something that was agreed in substance and in time. There are already several different amendments in those laws etc. Moreover, the effect of this change, and it does not only concern insurance companies, for example. the state's contribution organization is very problematic. I'll take the state credit organizations first, they don't talk much about them here. According to the 2012 amendment, they were obliged to transfer their money accounts under the State Treasury, under the Czech National Bank, i.e. have an obligation to transfer accounts at 31. 12. 2017. I will ask if the Ministry of Finance wanted to make this term more rapid, even if it was agreed with all relevant entities, it could have been done in the last big amendment that was adopted about a year ago, 20 January 2015. After a year, we're starting to change something that's been agreed here. I don't know why the Treasury didn't propose this a year ago. Perhaps because the Minister of Finance, or the Ministry of Finance, still had funds from previously created reserves available and now he doesn't have them. Maybe because Minister Babiš didn't require it back then. Today we have February 10th, and it cannot be ruled out if the amendment turns out controversially in the vote that the amendment will be returned to the Senate and, after all, the adoption of the law will be delayed again. And even if the law comes into effect sometime in May, so let's count - speeding it up, for example, with the contribution organizations, it is only in the order of months. And because of that, we are changing the provisions that were in force. And those contributory organizations and commercial banks have prepared for it. [[Noise in the hall.]] As far as health insurance companies are concerned, many have also fallen and will certainly fall. I consider the attempt to subject public health insurance to the Treasury to be incorrect, controversial, and even as an insured person I cannot agree with that. The proposal goes against the basic principle of the public health insurance system, i.e. the financing of health care separately from the State budget through health insurance companies. With this step, what does the de facto state do? It takes back the selected health insurance for its purposes related to the financing of the state debt. I think that ten years ago or even five years ago, no one could have filed such a proposal. He'd ask the bad guy. The amendments, because I see that the second hour is coming and the vote procedure that has been adopted on the Committee on Budgets. There are quite a lot of proposals. Some of them overlap, some of them are excluded, even in the case of a proposal from the Health Committee. The sensibleness of the procedure - and I really mean it now - would rather record it sending this House press back to second reading and there seeking some possible consensus. It is evident that, especially in the case of transitional provisions of the Act, these are mutually incompatible texts. The approval of one transitional provision precludes the possibility of voting on another text. I have experience from the negotiations of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, when the Members of the Budget Committee themselves have been biting through the differences in the amendments, really leads me to submit a proposal for a repetition of second reading. If this proposal had not been approved, I consider it essential in contrast to how the guarantee committee approved the procedure so that the House would have a chance to express its support for the proposal of the Health Committee adopted under points B2 to B6 and B12 to remove health insurance companies from the obligation to transfer their funds to the accounts of the Czech National Bank. A similar proposal is the one under points D1 to D5 and D7 and D8 which I have also read, and I acknowledge that the proposal from the Health Committee is better. In any case, however, a transitional provision, namely point D6, must be voted on if points B2 to B6 and B12 pass. Point D6 needs to be voted earlier, i.e. before the vote on points B9 to B11 or on point E3, because D6 also includes the retention of the current deadline for the obligation to transfer funds to the accounts of the Czech National Bank in the case of contribution organisations. Only if D6 is not approved is it appropriate to vote on further points B9 and B11 which concern only the abolition of insurance undertakings' obligation to transfer their funds to the accounts of the Czech National Bank, and other points as I have also handed them over to the rapporteur as a competitive proposal for a voting procedure. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I really believe that the amendments are so mutually incompatible, even the proposals of the Committee on Health, that it is better to return this proposal back to second reading, to try to reach an agreement and then to vote on the proposals so that every Member will know what the real difference is and what the real content of this particular proposal is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u7	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková in the debate and Mr Skalický will probably no longer be prepared, because at 14:00 I will have to close the debate on this point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I wish you a good day. Let me make one brief comment on the House's 546 press just from the point of view that has already been discussed here, and that is from the point of view of health insurance companies. The proposal newly regulates the obligation of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions to have accounts subordinate to the Treasury. It is now proposed that all funds from the state budget be accepted for these accounts, or possibly. State funds and national funds. It would also be subordinated to the Treasury that money is deposited or accepted voluntarily by the aforementioned entities, i.e. funds that are not from the State. A similar change in the current obligation to keep accounts subordinate to the Treasury concerns public research institutions and public universities. It is proposed that the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, the Resortní, oborní, corporate and other health insurance companies and the associations of health insurance companies submit all their accounts to the State Treasury and have them held in the Czech National Bank. These entities do not, in contrast to the above, have the possibility to transfer resources outside these accounts. What's problematic? (a) Employee, resident, branch, corporate and other health insurance companies shall lose the funds that constituted part of their prevention funds' income, interest on accounts held with commercial banks. This loss will be compensated, but it has so far been sources outside the public health insurance system. In the future, these resources should be taken directly from insurance premiums. The argument that the interest rate is now low is true, but it does not deal with the relationship in the future, nor does it deal with the above, i.e. that it has not yet been the sources of insurance. [[14.00 hours]] Two. For health insurance and health insurance, as well as for other entities, there will be a problem for payments or transfers and cash storage. So far, they can be dealt with by a deposit at commercial banks. The Czech National Bank does not have a branch system. The Czech National Bank deals with this problem with an agreement with a commercial bank. However, I am not aware of what costs and who will bear these costs, whether they are included in the account management item, or whether they will be borne by entities which have an obligation to keep accounts subordinate to the Treasury. Three. In the proposed version under the Treasury, the accounts of health insurance companies that are not generated from health insurance but from the so-called taxed activity will also fall. There's no reason for them to fall under the Treasury. The solution is in one of the amendments, and I hope that it will be adopted. The Czech National Bank cannot accept orders on the same day. There will therefore be an extension of the time limit between the award of the order and the transfer of funds. For the next one. The owners of the accounts of subordinate State Treasury will be obliged to grant approval to the Czech National Bank -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u9	Madame, I have to take your word for it, because we are at the edge of the Rules of Procedure because it is 14.01. So if you want to finish your performance, when we start again, we'll leave your application valid. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u10	Thank you. Repetition is the mother of wisdom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u11	Okay. I am interrupting this point in an open debate at the third reading, when Mrs Marková, who will finish her speech, will be the first to perform, and a colleague named Skalický is also registered. Before I interrupt the meeting, I see a colleague of Komárek here who has something to say to the entire House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u12	Thank you. Only members of the Election Committee: please, members of the Election Committee for a brief piano meeting. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to announce.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u13	Yes, I'm sure they'd be happy to listen to you, Mr. Chairman. I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting until 15.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-004-152.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member of the Government, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the 39th Chamber of Deputies. We will now focus firmly on points 10, 11, 12 and 13, House prints 304, 458, 497 and 503, these are the laws in second reading. And I would remind you that at 6 p.m., we have fixed additional points, points 17 and 31, House prints 611 and 543. Before we begin the first point, I have one more apology. Today between 16 and 17.45 Mr. Václav Zemek apologizes for reasons of work, further apologizing on the 10th. 2. to 12. 2. due to illness, Mr Igor Nykl and Mr Adam Rykala apologizes today from 15.30, then Thursday 11. 2. and Friday 12. 2. For personal reasons, Mrs Ivana Dobešová apologises today from 14:00 to the end of the negotiations for health reasons and tomorrow 11. 2. from 14.30 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes for today's meeting between 17.30 and the end of the negotiations, and Minister Herman apologizes today from 13.30 for personal reasons, Mr Karel Pražák apologises today from 15.30 to 19.00 for health reasons, Mr David Kádner apologises today from 15.30 for working reasons - and we have exhausted our apologies. The first point of our afternoon meeting is point number
