ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u1	15. Government bill amending certain electoral laws and other related laws / House print 568/ - second reading We have already discussed this House press on 25 May at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when, on the proposal of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, we have suspended this item until today, until 14.30 pm, see the tapestry. I ask that Mr. Milan Chovanec and also the rapporteur of the constitutional law committee, Mr. Jan Chvojka, who I do not see, take a seat at the rapporteur's table. As Mr Chvojka is not present as rapporteur, I will ask Mr Jeroným Tejc to take up the role of rapporteur. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we'll continue to interrupt... [[Ambassador Chvojka is coming into the hall.]] Excuse me, Mr Chvojka has already been found. Yes, thank you. I thank Mr Tejc for his willingness. We will continue with the interrupted general debate in which Mr Tomio Okamura came forward. Yes, the Member is present. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill before us to make the financing of electoral campaigns more transparent. To understand whether it is good or not, two basic questions need to be asked. What is the aim of this law, more precisely - what aim should the Act on Elections have? Undoubtedly, the aim should be a free and equal, unmanipulable competition between all parties and citizens when running for office in parliament, regions or for president. But does this ensure existing or proposed government law? Even the biggest naiva can't say yes. We all know that the main driver of every successful campaign is the finance and bulldozer that drives the engine is the media, both classical and all other media from newspapers to billboards. The law is written in such a way that it fully meets existing traditional political parties and, where possible, puts both new parliamentary bodies and non-voting parties at a disadvantage. The law proposes limits for electoral contributions and also a ceiling on how much can be spent on the campaign. Of course, the limit of 90 million for elections is richly sufficient for our traditional parties, but the government deliberately proposes it much higher than in comparable countries to benefit traditional parliamentary parties. We must honestly say to ourselves, why is there a limit on electoral spending in many countries? After all, so that the mainstream parties richly fed by the state would not be so favored before those who want to enter politics again. Belgium, which has almost the same population as the Czech Republic, i.e. slightly more than ten million, has a limit of EUR million, i.e. some CZK 27 million, in a country where the standard of living and campaign costs are multiplied. So in reality we can say that if the Czech Republic went the Belgian way and converted the limit, it should be in the Czech Republic somewhere under ten million. It is clear to everyone that at that point, the starting line for all parties and the movement would really compare and we could call the elections really fairer, because it would be a real competition of political programs, personalities and opinions. But in our terms, the limits are equally unrealistic, because the campaign itself in our terms cannot be counted, and certainly not the one they've already done, they're doing and they're going to be government parties. Everyone knows that state firms will advertise the media, and in exchange for that is the kindness of the editor. So then we have in quotation marks a beautiful advertising campaign of Czech forests, a state enterprise, like a campaign called Healthy Forests for Healthy Life. And an astonished reader wonders in vain what follows such a state enterprise's motto. The answer is simple. It seems necessary to pay the advertising agency, which will return part of the commission to the public relation. Lawmakers will argue that control will be taken care of. The question is what and who. The public media may not promote politicians at election time, but there is an exception. They may, of course, inform about the work of those holding public office. So yes, in a simple way - opposition or independent new policy is over, but the mayor or Prime Minister still has room. However, the greatest discrimination lies in the proposal to set up and finance political institutes, which is nothing more than a group working on ideological propaganda by the parties. Any party who has at least one Member who has been elected twice during the last three term of office of the House should be entitled to the contribution to the Institute and has a political institute in place at the same time. Even here, all the new gangs in the House were cleverly removed from the game. The Institutes should be entitled to 10 per cent of any State contribution to the activity belonging to the party under which the Institute falls. In reality, this means, for example, that Masaryk's Democratic Academy, think thank ČSSD, would receive a total of CZK 14 million in 2014 for the continuous promotion and dissemination of socialist ideas beyond the limits of the election campaign. Institutes would thus become influential entities that play a role during the campaign, while their finances are not included in the election budget. That's clever. However, considering that the ČSSD gentlemen wrote this at a time when they didn't think they'd have to pay Mr. Altner's debts. Last but not least, let me mention the great and important newsroom for the well-known and deserved, and the newly proposed Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements. Why did the Supreme Audit Office fall out of the game? The first reason is undoubtedly that, although they employ retired politicians, they seem to become unmanageable and control the head of their former breadmaker and to complete all evil, in quotes, the Supreme Audit Office is probably doing the checks well. That's why he's always found thieving and wasting in every ministry, regardless of which party is king there. Therefore, government parties do not seem to want to expand the powers of the Supreme Audit Office by means of constitutional changes. Thus, a more viable path for mainstream parties is a new office with new people who have no experience and will guarantee a calm course of elections. Of course, the President and the members of the Office will be proposed by the government majority in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate. I would like to mention one more outrageous discrimination, and this is the possibility of moving, merging limits in regional elections, which again favours large national groups at the expense of regional associations. As a result, the regional movement will have a limit of seven million, and even a hundred million, if it saves money in other regions, or the campaign will be paid for by the actions of its institute. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, has been promoting from the outset the change of our political system from party oligarchy to direct democracy. Few of the public knew what a party oligarchy was then, and many still feel that we have democracy here today. However, I had already had a bitter experience with an unscrutable violation of the Constitution and simple human justice in my special-purpose expulsion from the presidential elections, and our political system can no longer surprise me. This government bill of election is an accurate proof of the government's party oligarchy and its struggle with democracy, which fears like the devil of the cross. Bending electoral laws from various courts to funding only shows the real rottenness of the system and the unwillingness to introduce democracy, namely the rule and control of citizens in their own country and their representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u3	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With a factual remark, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to follow up on my previous speaker, who asked why the Supreme Audit Office fell out of the game. The Supreme Audit Office has fallen out of the game because it is a constitutionally anchored independent audit authority which is not appropriate for the control of political parties, which was also judged by the Constitutional Court. For example, the Supreme Audit Office cannot impose sanctions in its control activities. So we would either have to change the Constitution and change the settings of the Supreme Audit Office, which is the devil's trap that we wanted to avoid, and also when, in the event of its functioning, it would probably find some shortcomings by its audit finding, sanctions would have to be granted, for example, through financial authorities, which would be a very inefficient system. Independent, if possible thin, and I would say an action control body is what experience from abroad tells us. In the vast majority of our neighbours and advanced democracies, there is an independent supervisory authority. Yes, it's up to all of us to keep an eye on it so that we don't get a lot of jobs there, and we don't all pay it out of our pockets. However, the idea that this will be an independent supervisory body is the only right one and we have come to this on the basis of a long discussion, during which I have therefore not met my colleague Okamura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u5	I thank Mr Vondráček. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, after whom Vice-President Lank. No. No, it's okay. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I know that I will discuss this slightly outside the main topic, because it is the subject of the following law on political parties, but my colleague Vondráček forced me to do so. You know, it's a joke that if there's a problem, there's gonna be a committee that's looking for a building. And here we are setting up an institution to control political parties. I would like to quote Article 5 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic: "Political system is based on the free and voluntary establishment and free competition of political parties respecting fundamental democratic principles and rejecting violence as a means of promoting their interests." That's the whole article five. If I simplify it, the whole constitutional system of the Czech Republic is based on the free competition of political parties, which we have in the Czech Republic 160 about. The chairman of the Supervisory Committee, members of the Supervisory Committee, would say exactly how much they had to control the annual financial reports. And of course, as my colleague Okamura said here, we come to the fact that some political parties will become regional, some will start working, some will become a strong political party. And the political system is based on the fact that the political party that works permanently has the right to a contribution from the state budget when it reaches a certain percentage in the electoral competition. And those political parties that gain more than five percent have participation in Parliament, in the Chamber of Deputies. [[15.20 hours]] Of course, the discussion here was about whether the census should be the five percent of the electoral result, and of course, after the debate, we have come to the conclusion that, yes, the fragmentation of the political scene usually does nothing, and that, in a way, in our electoral system, when one Chamber of Parliament has the principle of proportional representation, and the other Chamber of Parliament has the principle of majority, that is, the one-and-a-half electoral districts to the Senate, so in fact, our combination of those who were elected earlier by the President of the Republic, now it is two different congregations, in different ways elected, are expressing, for example, on issues of war and peace, or on questions of sending soldiers or accepting soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic, is precisely the combination where citizens have a relatively chance to participate in representative democracy in some way. And what do we do? We are trying to eliminate political parties, and in one way we curse that they are historical, that they are traditional here, whether they are traditional since Czechoslovakia, that is, since 1918, or since 1990 or 1992, and replace them with something else. And it is done in different ways - so-called non-political policy or by replacing political parties with activists who have neither history nor history, and forgive me, they have no long-term responsibility either, because when they stop wanting to be on that political side, they just go somewhere else and either become political tourists or they die in politics. And now it's not about whether they're left, right, center, whether they're conservative, liberal, radical, left-wing, or moderate. That's not the point. It is therefore about the responsibility created by the main article of the Constitution of the Czech Republic on the creation of a political regime, namely the establishment of constitutional institutions of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the derived government of the Czech Republic and the previously derived president. We have given ourselves a bit of a break in this regard, and our constitutional system based on pure parliamentary democracy has shifted the President's direct election to some kind of interspace, and we have seen that, after the famous mainstream presentation in the mainstream media, we have found ourselves in a situation where we do not know what we are going to do about this step in the future, if it does not threaten us with a complete constitutional basis. And now we are debating that political parties will control an office that is outside the constitutional system. Where do we want to be? That's really nicer for me to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. And it is not true that the Courts of Auditors do not do that in Europe. Take a look at some of the best control systems in Europe, such as Luxembourg or Denmark, which have a lifetime of more than 150 years and which, after a major amendment in 1990 and subsequent years, actually fulfil the control system, as if the Authority, which helps the decision-making process of control activities. And we, outside this system, outside the political party system, will try to eliminate political parties by being looked after by someone who will be a pure bureaucrat. Please, this is such a big exit from the constitutional system that no one has ever designed in the entire existence of Czechoslovakia, and certainly not in all the time since 1992. And I note that this is not a question of political opinion. This is a question of the pure theory of the state, how the state is to function, how it is set up, and what the will of the people is, if you want the words of the Constitution, which is then presented in representative democracy by representative congregations and their executive bodies. If we start again setting up a committee that is looking for a building, and then we say, "but they need people there to check it out," I am convinced that this is exactly the step that will lead to an even greater humiliation of political parties. And then don't be surprised that a profession of politics is compared to other professions at the level of those who do not need any education for their performance. Because we are violating the fundamental principles of how politics should work! Again, it is not at all a political view of any individual political party. This is a question of the constitutional system and its construction. And I note that if the Office is not removed from the bill, we can never achieve that the constitutional system will operate in accordance with Article 5, that is, on the principle of free competition between political parties, because we will continue to degrade political parties in a bureaucratic way. And please, when you discuss it, even state science, that is, the theory of the state, is a real scientific category, a scientific basis for state creation. Let's not make it sound like a lady was talking and we can deal with it at any time in the pub. It's really not like that. I note that we are now in a situation where we want to take a step towards further humiliation of political parties as the institute from which the political regime comes. And whether he's that way or that way, he's just a citizen's thing according to which political parties choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u7	I thank the Vice-President. With a factual remark, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u8	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps here, with Vice-President Filip, we will not cut off the debate on constitutional risks and the threat of free competition between political parties. Only to supplement - only 5 out of 28 European countries do not have independent control over the funding of political parties. Our neighbours, such as Poland, Slovakia, Austria - all have it. Of course, not all countries can be compared because each has a slightly different constitution setting. I believe that the very control of the rules whether political parties operate under the existing rules, if they are not intervened in their existence, and I have repeatedly asked whether, for example, reporting, whether or not it will be a threat to the contribution to that party, I have been assured by now that this will not be the case, if a report is simply given in time, so I believe that we cannot talk about constitutional dimensions. Of course, the answer will only give us time if we accept this standard. And then maybe we'll have a second debate with the Vice-President who was right about us. At this point, I say for all of you, only 5 states out of 28 have no independent control similar to what is proposed in this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u9	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, colleagues, the surrounding states, where there is a developed democracy, say Austria and Germany, are not, in either case, set up a special office to control the financing and management of political parties. In the case of Austria, the Supreme Audit Office controls the management of political parties. Yes, it is mentioned in our explanatory report, but unfortunately it is said that the Constitution would have to change. Yes, well, let the Constitution change and there's no need to set up a special office. [[15.30 hours]] In the case of the German Republic, there is everything within the competence of the Bundestag, i.e. dealing with the equivalent of the Chamber of Deputies, and in my opinion the control is handled very well there. This, too, is mentioned in the explanatory report, but only very marginally. And I do not understand why it is possible, as if the Chamber of Deputies continued to deal with the scrutiny, that is, the inspection committee, why the processor or the petitioner did not actually deal with it. I think there is a way to save significant funds and achieve the same, i.e. consistent control of political parties without increasing administration and associated costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Karel Fiedler also joined the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that the debate that has been going on here so far should relate to the following point 16, the House press 569, however, these points are closely linked, and a number of us are probably merging, which is why I understand this debate here. There have been mention that the political system doesn't work the way it should. It is probably because citizens themselves enter and establish various initiatives, movements, activist associations. This is because they are not satisfied with what the political situation in our country looks like and how the standard long-term political parties have worked. If you want to know or answer why that is, I see the answer in this. I don't think I'm a know-it-all, but I see the answer because there was dissatisfaction with how it works. And the fact that there are things that are to be solved, I also believe that this is the case. I have one thing for the first speaker to speak. If there are so many comments, I looked into the Houses of Press 568, 569, so when there are so many ideas as it should be otherwise or as it is wrong, so I expected there to be some suggestions, but I did not find any suggestions there. Well, that was a rhetorical exercise so we could say something and do nothing. Furthermore, I would rather not comment on this. I then have an amendment, but I will probably leave that until a detailed debate. In any case, I believe that this debate will still be on both sides. And if there are such serious comments about what the situation is, then we should probably think a little bit more when it was at first reading, now it is in the second, but how the situation will continue to evolve, certainly when we have the possibility and this law is open, just as it is at press 569, point 16, so we should take advantage of it at this very time when the next elections are going to take place for us to think about what the situation is. My opinion is that she's definitely not good. And complaints about doing something that doesn't contribute to it... Let's stop politicizing for a while and think about how to set up a system that's fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u13	I thank Mr Fiedler. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, I have dealt with this bill proposal, with the fact that the sanctions that are being put forward should be proportionate to the expenditure that individual political parties spend on electoral campaigns, etc. In the case of electoral laws, the maximum fine of CZK 100,000 for not marking advertising means 0.11% of the eligible costs of the election campaign to the Chamber of Deputies. There should be a possibility to determine the amount of the fine by a certain percentage of the total costs incurred for the unmarked advertising, in order to avoid the spread of black unmarked advertising, or those unauthorised, which would be an economically advantageous instrument for targeted exceeding the electoral limits with a low fine. In fact, this is also the direction in which the amendment which I have agreed to put forward for this press, which you have in the system under number 4494, and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u16	I'm sorry to put you on the floor again. I will respond to the previous speaker, but not to my colleague Hovorka, a colleague of Mr Radek Vondráček, but rather to the content, what Mr Vondráček said. It was said here that only five of the 28 countries did not have any control, so it was suggested that we should put ourselves on the larger side, which has this system set up this way. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, I had a report drawn up by Parliament's Institute on how it looks with election days in individual states of the European Union, and it is an interesting number. Well, since the 28 fell, I remembered. Of the 28 countries of the European Union, two-day elections are in two countries. One country is the Czech Republic, the other is Italy. I am not saying that I want to promote or suggest anything here, but if we are looking at how it is in the surrounding states of the European Union, I am merely saying here that we are one of the two unique countries with two-day elections. I was surprised by this message. And so when we talk about how these elections work in our country, there are ballots sent by post, see Austria's recent example, there are electronic elections, we are lamenting how voter participation is, we will lament how voter participation will be in a referendum that, by the way, is trivial or is trivial, as well as in the senatorial elections, and maybe we should think about how to contribute to increasing electoral participation. If these things, which are used in the surrounding countries, would not help to improve the situation in our country. [[The President draws attention to the time]] I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u17	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u18	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to ask a representative of the government coalition when they will then place their third reading at some point firmly in order to consider the order, because we are also referring to this now that we are talking about the electoral laws first and only then will we establish an office on that next point. Now, it's no big deal at second reading, but can you imagine the situation that we will then approve the House press here at third reading 568, which counts on the establishment of the office, and in the following press we will not agree to the establishment of the office? Do you really want to choose such a procedure? I'm just giving it to the government coalition to consider.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u19	Thank you for this point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u20	The minister won't be able to hear me right now, so he's more likely to be on the record to be briefed by his coworkers. The Minister will hear it, I'm glad. I have no proposal for this bill, but I would like to start a debate on how we would introduce regular election dates, especially where extraordinary elections are quite unlikely, and these are municipal elections, regional elections and Senate elections. I don't think it's convenient to keep moving the election dates forward in the calendar. So if we realized, for example, and now really consider it an example that the regional elections are always the second weekend in October and, like, the municipal elections to the Senate every four years, it would certainly benefit. [[15.40 hours]] To do this, the Constitution must be changed, so that it can be treated precisely with the length of the mandates, etc. But I think it's a thing that could clear up the election system, and it would be worth having a debate. This is not a political matter, rather, the one who has ever run, so he knows how it is constantly moving up to the holidays when I talk about municipal and regional elections. And if we want to talk about voter participation, during the holidays, the probability of less participation is just higher than in other months. So I'm just giving it up for discussion for some next novel, but I think it would be worth it. We can think about it in the Houses of Elections. It's more complicated there, of course. We have experienced this in the last parliamentary term, where the extraordinary elections can simply be, either for various reasons or for the own volition of the Chamber of Deputies, which will dissolve by a constitutional majority. It's not quite that simple there. But it wouldn't even be for business if we had the proper deadlines. But, of course, at the moment of an extraordinary election, it always interferes. That means either there wouldn't be a standard term, or I don't know exactly how to do it. But for those other types of elections, it would be worth it to set regular election dates. And if it's three years and 364 days or four years and one day, it almost doesn't matter. Everyone would know when the election is. And I personally consider the October term to be quite reasonable, because at the moment when the municipal elections take place in November, for example, there is nothing you can do about the budget. Then, in fact, the new coalition either goes the way of the provisional budget and manages some months according to the budget approved by another coalition, because it really doesn't have time to prepare it. So I think it would be worth considering and a debate across the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, first President Filip, then Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u22	Thank you. I'm really just being serious. Yes, there was such a proposal, I think, in 2009. We processed it with my colleague Kasal back then, because the shift is really permanent. And it's not about a day, it's about a week. That means it's really disrupting the system. And it's nothing unconstitutional, but if we want to avoid any criticism of constitutionality, we just need to make it a fixed term by constitutional law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u23	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was still applying with a normal contribution, but I guess I... Well, I don't have 15 minutes right now... It's not my time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u25	This isn't your time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u26	I think I'm already downloading the application for a general debate, and I can do it in that factual remark, because we've exhausted the argument. I'd just like to respond to Mr. Fiedler's previous speaker. It's not like we're not trying. Different. Everyone's right that we've been talking more or less about point 16. However, when I return to paragraph 15, a number of amendments have been adopted under the IDA, which you will not find in the system, but are part of the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so I refer them to. We tried to complete the Government's proposal quite significantly on that point 16 but there were also amendments to paragraph 15. For all I could mention a rather fundamental change - registration of third parties. Because, as the law has been put forward, it would be very easy to circumvent the limits of elections by creating a group of independent supporters of the Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister - and they would not be limited by anything anymore. There is an institute of third party registration, which also has limits on their activities and their campaign contributions. I'm not saying it's a self-savable system, it's always possible to bypass it, and it's going to go around. The whole purpose of this regulation is not to regulate these entities, but just let them know, just to bring them out into the light. Let it be known that if someone pays $10 million to someone's election, they can say they have nothing to do with it, so let the company know that the $10 million was spent. That's all. And now I see my colleague will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u28	Short reactions first. And then what's the point of your optics, your argument, setting limits on the election campaign? You said if someone gave him $10 million for a campaign, let them know. Well, it's better if you don't know about it, I understand. Those are the general councils. But if we say that there's a limit of $90 million on the House elections, and the association of friends of Vice Prime Minister Babiš gives 200, it'll be known - and so what? What's gonna happen? But we'll have an office, won't we, who'll judge. I just want to say that's a problem. And the right approach would be to add the money to the limit. And then let the friends of any Prime Minister or vice-premiere do it. And I was talking at first reading about how we're going to deal with Vodňan chicken in the campaign. That's what we said to each other about the microphone and the government coalition that had the legislative teams, it didn't react. I recommended reading the opinion of the great television board, which analysed the course of the 2013 election campaign. And it's a thing that's not described by the law, so I can say it accurately and not take strong words. But the moment on TV, when you have set limits, how much political parties get, when I talk about public television, how much they have on their shoes, and at the same time, commercial politicians buy commercial advertising for their company's product, the competition just isn't fair. Because when it's running at the same time, logically, the candidate who gets a minute in the shot connects the voter to the candidate who promotes his company's product. And it's not that simple. It's different in different states. I think it's worth cutting it down, for example. on the TV. I don't think we're gonna do this in the papers or on the Internet, we don't have a chance to do the math and trace it. But I think that if we want to talk about free competition between political parties, it shouldn't be about who has the most money. And that it has an impact - the size of the campaign, the size of the financial resources - and, in my opinion, a much greater influence than the quality of the electoral programme, unfortunately, I hope we will not argue with that. That's why I've been saying from the start that I'm a fan of introducing limits to electoral campaigns. But to limit it, maybe. regulates everyone and not just some. And no matter how much we add to that any politician's association, even the opposition, so I don't say that only a government politician can always do it, and at the same time we add the commercial advertising for a particular product - and then the competition just isn't even, and then the money wins over the electoral program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u29	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr Vondráček wants a real response. Please, Mr. Ambassador. And now your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u30	For the last time, I promise. But I was summoned. I'm not a limit promoter, so the question has to be directed at someone else. I didn't come with them. I believe that when something is so easy to hug in its own way, it's to consider whether it makes sense. That's more true at point 16, where we're going to talk about the limit on donations. Campaign limits - I think there's some consensus here that they might be. As far as we're concerned, what would we be registered to third parties for and why do that, let it be included in the campaign? But I can imagine in the Czech Republic a situation where someone would do it on purpose, without knowing or even harming him, would have made a miserable campaign and it would then be counted to its limit on the election. So you just can't do it like that. So the modification that is now being proposed, I admit, has 100% Slovak inspiration. They tried it now in March, some major problem didn't cause it. And at least the public really has some real expectations that if someone is funding someone's campaign, they'll be in the light and they'll know about it. I hope we are not in danger of Vodňany chicken, because the Vice Prime Minister is a Member at the moment and cannot perform in advertising under the current legislation. And if he wasn't, and we talked about it -- yes, these clips are on the edge. And if the office we set up works well, maybe it'll include it in the campaign, and that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If that is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see a motion to reclaim the law to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. I am therefore opening a detailed debate, which is the first to be heard by Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u32	Thank you for the floor. I am very curious about how the debate on the following point 16 will be, when, as my colleague Vondráček rightly said, a number of things have already been said about this point. But now for the detailed debate. I have an amendment in the system that seeks to address some practical experience. I admit that before I was politically involved, I didn't do anything about it, but the experience we gained from the people who represented us in the electoral committees led me to try to set some rules on how the electoral committees should work, at least within the limits of those in Amendment 4498. It states that all members participate in the census of ballots, and most importantly, there is one crucial thing for me. That all the members who are on the electoral committee and add up the tickets should issue, as if, of course, the electoral commission's minutes will be issued, with the results moving forward, I see no reason why they should not have a record of the results with which they concluded the census. This is the second part of my amendment. The first part regulates how the electoral commission should function and who is responsible for its activities. That not only the President is responsible for the work, but also for the correctness of the results. And the reason why it is my duty to communicate is so that there is no such difference in the functioning of the electoral committees, as I found out when I began to look into it, that there are huge differences, how the committee worked, how the counting of votes took place. To my surprise, the differences I found were very fundamental. That's why I'm trying to respond in this way. This is a justification for at least uniting within some limits of possibilities. To avoid any errors and then unnecessary complaints. I hereby sign up for my amendment number 4498.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u33	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Sedláček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u34	Hello. I would like to sign up for Amendment 568, which is House document 4495. The reasons for this amendment are part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u35	I thank Mr Sedláček. Before I give the floor to Mr Hovorka, I will just read the apologies, please, Mr. Ambassador. Today, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes from 14:30 to 18:00 without giving any reason. Mr Jan Zahradník apologizes today from 14:30 for personal reasons. Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes from 14.30 to 15 hours for business reasons. Mr David Kasal apologizes from 14.30 to 16.30 for working reasons. Mrs Balaštíková apologises from 16 to 19 o'clock, and from 15.15 to the end of the day, she apologises to Minister Marksová. And from this day forward, Mr Šarapatka apologizes for working reasons. And Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today from 5 p.m. on the ground of a foreign trip. That was an apology. Now, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare my amendment, which I have put into the system under the number 4494. This is an amendment to press 568 and is essentially a percentage rate of sanctions. In the original proposal, as we received it, there was a relatively wide range within which the administrative authority could decide on the amount of the penalty. Unfortunately, he could have decided, for example, in the case of a major error in a small amount of sanctions, in this way the penalty is set in percentage terms. The greater the error, the greater the sanctions. For example, in Section 16g it is inserted that the penalty would be from CZK 10,000 up to one and a half times the amount of usual promotion or electoral agitation, which was disseminated contrary to the provisions of Section 16 para. In the case of an administrative offence as referred to in paragraph 5, the competent authority shall: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. So the point is that everything is not simply left to the satisfaction of the administrative authority, but to take account of the degree and severity of the error, and this is proportional to the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u37	I thank Mr Hovorka. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I don't even see a motion for a refund or a reduction in the deadline. I therefore end second reading of this bill. I would like to thank the rapporteur and pass on the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-013-015.u38	Good afternoon. Let's continue with point number
