ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-022-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 747/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, the Minister of Transport, will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-022-016.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of discussion is a government proposal for an amendment to the Civil Aviation Act, whose primary aim is to implement adaptation measures in relation to the directly applicable EU rules and procedures for introducing operational noise reduction restrictions at airports, reporting of civil aviation events and certificates and certification of air traffic controllers, thereby fulfilling the commitments made by the Czech Republic from its EU membership. The relevant adaptation measures in relation to the relevant directly applicable EU regulations should have been adopted last year, in the case of one regulation they must be adopted by June of this year. Amendments were applied to the bill, on which both the Ministry of Transport and the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies adopted a favourable position. These are, on the one hand, amendments tabled by rapporteur Snopek, which have been processed in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and which specify existing legislation or aim to improve existing administrative practice, and, on the other, an amendment by Mr Adamec, which increases the maximum take-off weight limit for a model of aircraft not falling within the scope of the rules applicable to aircraft. Both the Ministry of Transport and the Economic Committee adopted a negative opinion on the amendments made by the rapporteur, including a new comprehensive regulation on the operation of airports, and the possibility of carrying out the activities of executive airmen as self-employed activities. Furthermore, Mr Klaška's amendments concerning the operation of the airport and the regulation of the legal definition of air construction and the airport were applied to the bill. The Economic Committee adopted a positive opinion on these amendments, while the Ministry of Transport took a negative view on them and continued to deliver a negative opinion. At this point and in this context, I must reiterate that the Ministry of Transport continues to disagree with these amendments, and I consider it necessary to state that the adoption of these proposals would lead to an extremely practical complication in ensuring airport safety and protecting them from terrorism. The proposed amendment to the definition of the airport itself will create such serious problems. In contrast to the existing legislation, it will no longer be possible to include land on which there is no air construction or part of it, which will in fact lead to a substantial territorial narrowing of the airport space. As a result, it will be problematic to ensure operational technical security and airport protection against terrorism in areas that cannot be included under the definition of airport. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Such legislation is unfounded, it does not ensure the protection of the rights of owners. In this respect, it does not meet the long-term requirement of a public defender of rights, which repeatedly calls for the resolution of property rights relations at airports, nor does it meet the stability of operations at airports in the Czech Republic and brings serious security risks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-022-016.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. The President of the Laudat shall have priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-022-016.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I said here yesterday when I unsuccessfully suggested a point in the transport department that, in the case of an amendment to this law, I am unable to find out where the truth is and what the consequences will be when we pass the law in some original form, or for every single amendment that is there. My colleagues even got into a very unpleasant mill when they were trying to get to the bottom of things. It didn't happen. So I, at this point, and somehow we were arguing with the Minister here, and I'm making a procedural motion, so let him speak to us to interrupt this point until the October meeting this year and try to resolve it. I just have to point out that if we fail to see what the optimal solution is, so that we are not all here to be fools who accidentally succumbed to one or another lobby, one of the possible solutions would really be to take what we have to translate, what is indisputable and clear, and possibly property matters somehow separate and resolve them, or agree by October that this is the right way, for the Czech Republic optimal. I'm just pointing out that they're talking about Příbram Airport, they're talking about Kladno, they're talking about Lína. Apparently every story is different, so I really don't know and I'm very clueless. So I'm making a motion to interrupt this point, and I guess we'd be looking. The chairman of the Economic Committee also tried to get to the bottom of things, called the closed negotiations of the interested parties. In the end, and the Minister has already said in the opening speech that the Ministry of Defence is not in agreement with the Ministry of Transport. If the ministers said it wasn't a problem, and they sort of made a deal, I'm warning you, they didn't make a deal downstairs, and this is what they showed us at the meeting. So that, too, I would say, is another support argument for us not to get on one side or the other today. So I'm giving a procedural proposal that I recommend voting on now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-022-016.u5	Okay. Since you have tabled a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. Your procedural proposal is to interrupt this item into the October session of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out and ask you to come forward again. [[17.50 hours]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 97. 113 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 110, against none. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. I am interrupting this item until the October meeting. Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna open another point and that's it.
