ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 750/ - first reading I ask that the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and Mr Ladislav Šincl, who is the rapporteur for first reading, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. The press of 750 under the authority of the Government shall state the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I ask that when the House calms down, he take the floor. But all colleagues, I ask for peace. If you want to discuss something other than insurance, please in principle in the foyer. Minister, I trust you'll have enough room to present this press. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting to you a draft law amending the Act on Insurance and other related laws for discussion. The content is almost exclusively about the transposition of the new legislation on insurance of the European Union into our legal order, so-called. Solvency II, which aims to further harmonise the rules on access and the operation of insurance and reinsurance activities within the single European market and to supervise such activities. The aim is to strengthen the financial stability of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the transparency of their activities and the accountability of supervisory authorities for the stability of the insurance market. At the same time, a significant part of the adjustment is contained in the directly applicable European Union legislation. This involves a number of new adjustments and obligations of both regulated entities and the Czech National Bank as a supervisory authority. Increased claims on the business of insurance and reinsurance undertakings should lead to significantly higher protection for policyholders and other persons entitled to reinsurance and reinsurance. The European amendment should have been implemented as a whole on 1 January 2016. Unfortunately, given the diversity of views on the issue of regulation of commissions in life insurance, both insurance market participants and political representation, there has been a significant delay in the implementation and the law is presented -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace. Please, so that the Minister of Finance can give his opening report in peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u4	- and the law is thus re-submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in the form in which it was submitted to it on 25 February 2015, at the time as press 414. In addition to the previous House press, only adjustments have been made which have been the subject of amendments and which have not been the subject of differences of opinion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the delay in implementing the legislation in question in the European Union, I note that the debate will propose a reduction in the deadline for discussing the bill in committees for 30 days, and I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u5	I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Šincl, to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u6	Dear Government, honourable Members, let me just briefly add to the words of the speaker. Amendment to Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, implements prudential standards in the insurance sector in accordance with European Union legislation. This is about the absorption of a large number of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, in particular the Directives of Solvency II and Omnibus II. The amendment also responds to the establishment of a European Supervisory Authority, a European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, so-called It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. It's a very comprehensive standard. It is reflected not only in the Insurance Act but also in other laws, such as the Trade Business Act, the Reserves Act to secure the income tax base, the Vehicle Liability Insurance Act, the Financial conglomerates Act and the Pension Insurance Institution Act. The amendment represents a significant shift in the complexity of the calculation to determine the required amount of capital and technical provisions which are more consistent with the risk profile of the particular insurance undertaking. The amendment brings to insurers the need for more detailed risk management, increased reporting obligations, increased requirements for process documentation and compliance with other requirements. I would also like to remind you that the amendment to the Insurance Act was originally discussed as a House Press, as has already been said by the Minister, as House Press 414, but probably because of the emotional tension in the Chamber of Deputies related to the amendments tabled by the Act amendment, it was not finally adopted as a whole. Just to remind you. In particular, these proposals have tried to regulate so-called. distribution costs for life insurance in the field of remuneration for insurance contracts and redirect in the case of cancellation insurance contract part of the commission paid by insurance undertakings to intermediaries insured, i.e. towards consumers, citizens of the Czech Republic. The proposal to regulate the remuneration of life insurance is not in this press, and it can therefore be hoped that there will not be so much emotion in this press. The regulation of intermediaries' remuneration will be dealt with separately within the House press 751, which should follow this press. For these reasons, let me therefore express the hope that this amendment will now be successfully discussed. As I have already said here, this amendment is essentially a transposition - and it was also said by the Minister - of the transposition of European Union legislation, and therefore thanks to its failure to approve it in due course last year, the Czech Republic could be threatened with sanction proceedings by the European Union. However, the good news is that its non-approval of ordinary clients, consumers, has not touched at all, and that is the main thing. While not approving this amendment last year has caused certain complications for insurance companies, especially for those transnational ones, it has not been of major importance, according to the available opinions. Insurers have already invested considerable resources in hundreds of millions of crowns in preparation for implementation and are on implementation so called. Solvency II is already ready. [[14.40 hours]] I assume that most of you have met these 157 pages of text consistently. I consider that, I stress, this is a necessary condition for a possible discussion of this law. In connection with this law, however, let us also bear in mind that this standard will have to be implemented and followed by institutions and specific people on the territory of the Czech Republic, especially on the insurance market. The national regulator, the Czech National Bank, will have to interpret the uncertainties not only but also follow this law. I therefore generally believe that we should not be more stringent, orthodox than elsewhere in the European Union in implementing European standards and also in this amendment. The amendment went through a proper reminder process, and the associations operating in the financial market, including the insurance associations, have commented on it. Many reservations were incorporated, many were illuminated and the explanation was accepted as part of the comments. There have also been a number of consultations with the Ministry of Finance, and I have dealt with these consultations personally. Here I would like to express my appreciation for the constructive approach of the Deputy Minister of Finance Lenka Jurošková. There is only one area left of this complex material that I would like to draw attention to as rapporteur. It's called. related activities. According to the proposed amendment and the explanatory memorandum of the House press 750 compared to the House press 414, these were so-called. related activities specified, however, the text of the law still shows that insurance companies could no longer, as so far, provide a wide range of financial services such as: provision of supplementary pension insurance and other similar. It is worth noting that in the explanatory memorandum it can be read, among other things, that one reason for eliminating these related activities is the concern that carrying out such activities would entail an increased risk to the stability of insurance undertakings. The reality is, however, that there are no problems in the Czech insurance market and there are never any problems in this area. Since I don't know everything, and I didn't want to be wrong, I turned to the Ministry of Finance on this matter asking for an example in order to state this so-called example. an increased risk of stability of an insurance undertaking due to those related activities. Unfortunately, I have not been given any, not one single example of an insurance company from the Ministry of Finance to show these problems. Personally, I therefore believe that the risk to the stability of insurance companies and the risk to their ability to fulfil their obligations is virtually not in Czech terms, because insurance companies are only in the role of so-called. distributors. The reason for not allowing insurance undertakings to carry out other related financial activities in this amendment is, among other things, that the provision II is merely transferred. However, this has not changed compared to the previous version, and in my opinion there is no reason for such a step. There it is again, I stress, just my opinion. So far, the Czech National Bank as a regulator and sufficient guarantor after careful consideration granted insurance companies permission to operate these related financial services as well. Personally, I think that we should consider this matter in the course of further discussion to the client, the consumer, as we have so far perhaps let the choice of financial service to the selected entity on the financial market, which has the corresponding license from the Czech National Bank. I confess that it is not clear to me why we should not leave insurance companies in line with the licenses granted by the Czech National Bank, which is a regulator over insurance, to provide e.g. pension insurance and the like. It would be good if we were to be explained in the course of further discussions why this is the case. In my personal opinion, there could also be a significant imbalance in the financial market's business environment by removing the possibility of providing other financial services to insurance undertakings and leaving this possibility to banks, intermediaries and other entities where no change in this approach is even required from the point of view of the European Union. After all, you just have to go to a number of banks in the Czech Republic or look at the Internet, where you can easily find that you can buy life and non-life insurance, not related to banking products, and pension insurance in the bank next to bank products - an account, credit card, credit, building savings, investment. Today, a wide range of all these financial products can be offered without any difficulty. independent intermediaries, which will be discussed in the following press. The problem is also that there are no uniform rules for the distribution of financial products on the financial market. At present, regulation exists only in some sectors, yet it is not uniform. I think we could also look at this as well as these so-called. related activities are addressed in other countries of the European Union, and take advantage of experience from the nearest surroundings, e.g. from Austria, Slovakia and Hungary, where insurance companies are not limited in the provision of these financial services and everything works without any problems, of course after the transposition of the Solvent II Directive. Despite this one single reservation and the subject for reflection - I stress, the subject for reflection - I recommend this press to be forwarded to second reading and, above all, to the Guarantee Budget Committee, where I suppose there will be enough time for expert discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u7	I thank the rapporteur Ladislav Šincl and open a general debate. I don't have a written application for it, but I see Mr. Volný's application from the scene. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request from this place a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-011-048.u9	Thank you. Who else in the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. There was no motion to vote for a return or rejection. We will therefore consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion, first of all the proposal on the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will ring the bell, so that those who have brought their discussions into the foyer know that the vote is coming. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee, in the vote number 104, which I have launched, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the budget committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 104 of the 111 present for 106, against one. The motion was accepted. Does anyone else have a motion for a hearing on another committee? The Organizing Committee did not propose a hearing on another committee. If not, we will now consider the proposal that has been made in the debate to shorten the deadline for the 30-day debate, in the 105 vote that I launched. I'm asking who's in favor of shortening the time limit to 30 days. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 105 of the 112 present for 81 Member, against 16. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee, has not been ordered to another committee, and the period for deliberation has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, I finish point 48. [[14.50 hours]] Before we proceed, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic delivered an apology from this afternoon's meeting at 13:00. The next item in our meeting is item number
