ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u1	210. Proposal by the Chamber of Deputies for the appointment of the President of the Office for the Management of Political Parties Also in the secret choice where we decided on a proposal for the President, the only nomination for the President of this office was Vojtěch Weis. In this election, 157 ballots were issued and submitted. The proposed candidate has received 97 votes and will therefore be proposed by the House to the President as one of the two candidates for the President of this office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u2	I also thank you, Mr President, and now I will give Mr Kalousek priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u3	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me for delaying you for three to four minutes, but there are some information that should be heard transparently as soon as possible, and not only the Chamber of Deputies should hear it, but above all the Prime Minister, whose presence here I welcome in such a case. We received the MP's proposal yesterday by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, which is amended by the Research Support Act. There is nothing to say about the very content of this amendment, and we agree with that, of course. However, we consider it absolutely outrageous the way in which this amendment came into being. A month ago, on 10 November, a group of Members - František Vácha, Professor Zlatuška and others from the committee responsible - submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Research Support Act, which eliminates the error of the original government amendment, simply improves the not entirely perfect work of Vice-President Bělobrádek. That law was put forward by a group of Members legitimately in due process, and the Government's Legislative Council took a position on this, where the draft gave a small detail easily removeable at second reading, but President Bělobrádek, as an expert guarantor, proposed to the government and delivered a negative opinion in the government on this bill, which he took, adjusted it by the one sentence that the legislation had given him, provided the explanatory report essentially identical, as Professor Vácha wrote it, and presented it as his own proposal. Just for the record, that's what these lyrics look like. [[It shows both texts for comparison.]] The colored one is identical in the text written by Professor Vácha and in the text stated by Vice-President Bělobrádek as his own. If we continue, don't worry, I won't continue, but if we continue, the other pages look alike. It's about three-quarters of the same text, including punctuation. I am saying this because Mr Bělobrádek's parliamentary proposal is likely to be discussed by Christmas and I would like to say that we would all like the Prime Minister to know in TOP 09 that when the Government is discussing this parliamentary proposal by Mr Bělobrádek that it will essentially be discussing the parliamentary proposal that the Deputy Prime Minister, as an expert guarantor, first stomped it into the country in the government, then he copied it and now he is posing it as his own. Plagiarism is quite sensitive in the academic community and it is quite disqualifying. I think that this should be equally disqualifying among us here in the Chamber of Deputies, because nothing happened except that the colleague took and copied the work of his colleagues and abused the position of Deputy Prime Minister, who has this issue of expertise. In the words of Mrs Kelišová, I dare say, "It's disgusting, Your Majesty! Decent people simply do not do so, and the government should know this when discussing this proposal, and we should also remember that after the New Year when we discuss this proposal. Thank you for your attention. And I'm giving the Prime Minister both texts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u4	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Good afternoon, ma'am and gentlemen. Before we go any further, the right of Vice-President of the House. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u5	Mr President, through the President, I do not question the substance of the things that you have mentioned here. I understand you appreciated the Prime Minister's presence, but I'd appreciate it if you'd just wait for Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek's presence to comment on that. It is merely humanly decent if someone is spoken of to be present. Which doesn't make me question the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u6	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Bartošek. The right of the President of the KSČM club is still preferred. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u7	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day in pre-Christmas time, which is usually a little more nervous here in the House, even more nervous than some other times before the serious dates, and it was seen at the previous point. In the context raised here by President Kalousek, in general the case of copying, I would like to cover your attention with another case of copying, which seems to have occurred here, in the context that we broke up here exactly a week ago with no further outcome - two identical bills to abolish the ban on supplies for the Bušehr nuclear power plant. The lower number of the press was that of the MP whose only flaw, because the texts are exactly the same, were or were the persons of the petitioner. A far higher number of the press, a later proposed proposal, was a proposal from the government, which you, esteemed government colleagues and esteemed government colleagues, did not even allow yourself to include today, even though it is proposed after a major subject such as the anti-smoking law had been discussed. That word is crucial here in quotation marks. I'd like to take a look at the case of copying here, so that we take this case of copying into consideration as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-09-ps2013-053-08-005-210.u8	I thank the President of the KSČM Club, Pavel Kováčik, and before I begin paragraph 192, which is next in the agenda of our meeting, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 12.15 for personal reasons Mr. Petr Adam and from 12.30 for personal reasons Mr. Zdeněk Soukup apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now let me start point number
