ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u1	258. Information of the Minister of Transport on the progress and state of preparation of transport infrastructure constructions which have not received an exception in the environmental impact assessment (EIA) so that we can hold a merged debate. I ask that the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok take the floor, who is a member of the Government and at the same time informs the Minister of Transport about the progress and state of preparation of transport infrastructure constructions which have not received an exception from the validity of the environmental impact assessment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, in relation to the constructions that have the EIA's opinion under Law 244/1992 Coll., for which an exception has not been agreed with the European Commission, we have approved a clear procedure by the Government since May, namely 11 May 2016. By adopting this resolution, the government untied its hands to investors and allowed to minimize the delays that occur for individual buildings in connection with the effects of Act No. 39/2015 Coll., which was amended by the EIA Act. By this resolution, the government agreed that all necessary steps should be taken in parallel with the repetition of the EIA process to end the preparation of the constructions - planning, land purchase, providing other opinions. The new EIA opinion will be issued according to these government approved principles for a technical solution based on the current level of project documentation. It will not be necessary to examine the different options of leadership in the territory, which would delay the preparation very much. In order to provide supporting documents, the Road and Motorways Directorate now evaluates the offers received to conclude a framework contract so that the provision of documents can be as flexible as possible. The selected most prepared projects have already been provided with documentation for the repetition of the EIA, including ongoing review biological surveys, which have been running on these buildings since this spring. I believe that the repetition of the EIA process, as unpopular as it sounds, will not bring significant delays to the process of preparation, as we are also dealing with other obstacles that we are dealing with in parallel. For smaller and uncomplicated buildings on first-class roads, it is possible to complete the assessment only after the detection procedure, which is significantly faster than the full EIA. In its resolution No. 430 of 11 May 2016, the Government regularly ordered the Ministry of Transport to submit an overview of the investor preparation of transport buildings with construction costs above CZK 300 million with the opinion of EIA issued under Law 244. Currently, materials are submitted to the government with updated information on project preparation of individual buildings on 11 September 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u3	I thank the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Now, according to today's newly or once again approved rule, we will proceed in a way that first the appellants will make these points and then the rapporteur will run the debate. This means first Zbyněk Stanjura, then Karel Šidlo, colleague of Laudát and then registered for the debate Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u4	Good afternoon. There's this sleepy atmosphere here, so I'm gonna try to get it a little upset. If we were to live in an ideal world, these two official reports of both ministers are absolutely sufficient, and we do not need to go on doing so. One thing, Minister Brabec spoke of her, I didn't understand why we discussed ten constructions, then there's nine in the finals. František Laudát and I specifically pointed out the problem with TEN-T in the extended Rudná - everything is agreed, everything is negotiated, Brusel agrees. I'll take that as the opposite. Minister Brabec stated one inaccuracy in his speech. It is not true that the Road and Motorway Directorate wanted to go this way, which was elected. That's just not true. Roads and highways to the last day fought to keep the extended Rudná in the list of constructions. I have written papers for this. I think Minister Tok will confirm that. The decision was not made by the investor, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, but by the Ministry of Transport. From Prague they know better how it will work in Ostrava. It seems extremely risky to me. The way Minister Brabec described it may continue, he is absolutely right. But we also have some history of the construction. I signed an amendment with a contractor, as I signed with Minister Took in his former job when we were crossing the R35. I signed the amendment to the first part of I/11, which means Wet Lazka - the border of Opava County. The Minister and I have already knocked and opened the section. And at that time, I made such an amendment that after the extension, it should be a long time ago. The entry into service should have been simultaneously. At that time, the contractor promised us that the maximum difference would be 30 days. And from the Wet Lazcs to the border of Ostrava County, we're already driving. There's a new 110 speed limit, which is okay, a new safe section. Not only did it accelerate the route and ease the most affected municipalities, such as Hrabyna and Velká Polo, but it also significantly increased security. Then we got a chance to see how the long-term problems with one of the construction opponents - one must say, which uses, and has every right to do so, all the possibilities of our legal order. He's got a civic association that's also his. You guys have softened the conditions for civil society. We wanted some minimal numbers, local jurisdiction, it was all suggested by Mr. Zahradník, so you're everything, everything... If it goes well and no one's called back, then great. I'm really gonna compliment you here and say, "We've seen it, we've seen it all black in our country." But at least the Minister of Transport - I don't know if he wrote to you too, Minister Brabč - but the Minister of Transport knows that the Head of the Region wrote to him, and there we are in opposition, so I am not saying this politically at all, which did not agree with the decision. He was written by the association, our city, I see my colleague Opálka, founded by the Association I/11-I/57, who also disagreed. According to my information, the Road and Motorway Directorate didn't agree to this. The Ministry of Transport has chosen theoretically faster, and it can happen in practice, it remains to be seen, but in our opinion, the people who live there, who have failed to negotiate with the person in question for years, riskier way. [[16.50 hours]] And especially in that schedule you described, what would happen if the other way was chosen? That's what I'd like to hear. What did you actually save in theory? Because if it were in the government's order, as promised - I actually carry it by getting caught, and when the bird is trapped, they sing nicely to it. They sang to me that the key building in the Moravian-Silesian region would not need a new EIA and that delay would not be delayed, so I believed it, when I was so handsome the ministers sang to me. And I don't know any reason I haven't heard yet, except that, and that's true, the Department of Transport has decided otherwise. But why? And try to model for us the case that the construction would remain in the government's order, and give us some timetable and then compare it. That's the first thing. It was quite comical how the points were always shortened on the board, so the points were written - this point that I designed was called "EIA construction" and the second point "EIA-free" And it's exactly the opposite, but that's more like the magic of shortening points. I have long argued, and unfortunately my successors did not continue this way, that we have two, two key infrastructure structures on the roads - R35, which, after some unnecessary delay, was lucky to get into the government's regulation, and the road circuit around Prague, which I think is a much more accurate expression than when it is called the Prague Circuit, because the Prague Circuit evokes in the inhabitants of the Czech Republic that it is some kind of urban issue of the capital city of Prague, and to say that we will not give anything to Pražák's people, it is quite popular in many regions. But the construction is crucial for the whole Czech infrastructure, of course for the Central Bohemia. The solution, I think, is smiling how part of Prague's politicians are trying to place the problem from Prague to Central Bohemia without having it arranged in Central Bohemia, when I'm watching the media shootouts where we send trucks over 12 meters, it's the typical problem, I called it the problem of the neighboring street. Everyone agrees, it's necessary, but not with us. We'll do it at the neighbor's. So that's the problem. I consider it - whether the Prime Minister is not angry with me - to be extremely irresponsible to say that in 2019 he will be riding on the section of the Prague Circuit, I say it simply, or that he will start building in 2019 between the Brno and the Hradec Motorway, let me put it simply. I'm not saying section 511. It's just not true, it's an adult story. Whoever wants to get drunk with a roll, believe it. I recommend another thing. Find the press releases of the Ministry of Transport always from that autumn of the year, which constructions will start next year. And look up the reports from 2015, 2016 and now the report that will start next year. And what do you find out? Maybe the day of that month is changing, I'm sure the date of the press release is changing, but the content is almost the same. You won't grieve with a promise. So the constructions the government wants to inaugurate next year, the same thing she told us last year and the year before in many buildings. The correct performance of both ministers, I must say, was correct. They forgot to say something else - that they're putting out the fire they set themselves, unfortunately. I said yesterday in another debate that we had a debate on European policy for drawing and saving billions. This is a rather flat debate, the problem is much bigger. Why didn't we negotiate exceptions for all constructions when we have so many allies in the European Union and when this government is part of the mainstream? Where are our allies? Why is he talking to us? What do they care if we have an EIA based on the old, past or past versions of the law? I don't understand that at all. And that we'd take it. I really don't understand. But I say, if it was only an official process without access, I would say, especially the idea opponents of the construction - I always say, or not always, I often say that often the designers suggested the route insensitively and could estimate where there would be some legitimate opposition to the public, those who live there and who know the situation. So it's not like it's black and white completely. But at the same time, giving that enormous opportunity to enter the process so many times is simply wrong. And it's the fault of all the governments that were here not to say the favorite: well, what were you doing here? First, this government has been there for three years. Remember how many times we have heard in the speech of the Minister of Transport, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Regional Development, that new legislation is going on. The building bill, the whole new revolutionary, simplistic, the Linen Construction Act, which will be the same as in Germany. Well, those are all just words. It'll be three years from the election next month. How many prints do we have available to discuss? None. Is it real to expect the approval of the new construction law by the end of the term of office? It's not. Is it really possible to expect the approval of the Linen Construction Act by the end of the term of office? It's not. But that's okay, we should still work on it, because I don't think it's a political thing, unless you put green glasses on, a green ideological view of the world that actually says get out of the cars, drive the public transport. This, by the way, is also the problem of the Prague Circuit today and the fact that two government parties are sitting there in a coalition with the greens, which I think for ideal and ideological reasons prevent this construction. And instead of the rest of us trying to find some consensus on how we're gonna simplify - and I'm saying that the basic principle is that the public concerned can only enter this process once. Very pragmatic in general is the entry of administrative courts into the principles of territorial development of the region or the city. That seems extremely unhappy to me. I don't know if Minister Tok, but I like to ride south Moravia as the Minister of Transport, because they always fall down on you, what they want, what construction, logically, and there could be said: I would love to help you in South Moravia, you are right, but unfortunately you do not have the principles of territorial development, until then logically an investor organization has no chance to obtain either a territorial decision or a building permit, you have a domestic role to play. And I don't have the courage to say that South Moravia had the worst principles of territorial development compared to all regions. They were just unlucky. They had the most qualified opponents against each other who eventually won the lawsuit. The question is, is that a good thing? And this is what we should be debating, even with the fact that we will not approve of this seeming text during this parliamentary term. But we could have some basic political consensus. I think we're all able to find her except for the green ones, there I am very skeptical, but well, they're not here, they won't be here, so that doesn't change anything. And we could work on that. I don't really believe the Lex specialis, the Linen Construction Act, because it's very complicated, especially retroactivity, how to judge. Yes, it might help new ideas, but for those who are already running, I fear rightly and logically that it would not help very much, that it could be interpreted as either direct or indirect retroactivity. But I said that when we approved the last amendment to the EIA law - well, nine buildings, respectively. Nine events, twelve buildings to be precise, that's good. But what about the ninety? Or maybe eighty-eight, so you don't take my word for it. What's in there? And you know what the result is. You've been driving these roads this year. We in general, and I say all of us, it's like we're on a mission when I get some money, so I have to spend it. God forbid I don't spend money! Very often from our point of view - and for that it is time for a detailed debate either in the Economic Committee or in the Sub-Committee on Transport - we change the guardrails where we would not have to. The new guardrails look exactly like the old one, we don't see any change there. So it's massively invested in repairs, repairs aren't coordinated. When you drive a car, you're trapped, and then you drive 100 miles from Opava to Brno for three and a half hours if you're lucky. You'll hit eight traffic locks within 160 km, some of which are solved in my opinion completely wrong, the type where three lanes come together and there are traffic lights. And you have 30 minutes in place, and the village where it happens, of course, is suffering. For experts of northern Moravia and Moravian-Silesian region it is Hradec nad Moravice. [[17,00 hours]] So that's the indirect effect of us failing - I'm telling you not to feel it so confrontationally again - to prepare the key structures. I guess that's the match. It's just that the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport mustn't go around every county and in every county to say that their construction is the priority. At the moment of 13 priorities, you have no priority. I suggest we check this regularly so that we get a regular report on how the work goes on, both for the nine buildings and for the other ninety who weren't lucky. To work intensively to simplify the construction law, when I say it like this, or other regulations that will be needed, and to set two key priorities on the road: R35 and the road circuit around Prague. That's what I think there are two buildings we're missing the most. The first significantly relieves D1 and the second significantly helps not only the capital, but all of us who continue behind Prague and we need to go around Prague and not to go to Prague. And if it's a priority, I think we're able to find maybe some special legislative solutions for those two buildings, because we really need them. That's why I designed these points. I think the issue is completely linked, which is why it's nice to have a united debate. And repeatedly in the field of transport, we offer cooperation and the repeated response is not interested. I don't think we should do politics in transport. I say we have a lot of other topics, and we as citizens' democrats will be fine with them. When I see the Minister, and his idea of his officials checking our boilers, it's an ideal crucial clash about home freedom, and we can argue there. But in the preparation and implementation of key infrastructure structures we should not argue and we do not. Plus, there's no argument as to where the communications are supposed to lead. The routes are stabilized, we all know where it's supposed to be. It just can't be prepared and realized. And I point out, money is not really the problem. And that hasn't been a problem for years. The problem is the underprepared constructions, which have first legislative reasons and secondly faulty political decisions, in particular, by Minister Bárta. I'm not afraid to call it that precisely, because stopping the preparation and progress of the buildings was a wrong political decision. And I think every government's unwillingness to set two or three priority actions, and the others just have to wait. I understand that, we're all from a region, or each one of us considers building in his region to be the most important. But the two I was talking about, I think we could agree on this because the road circuit around Prague is for everyone, at least it concerns two regions, Prague and Central Bohemia, and R35 is interested in all regions from Moravskoslezský, Olomoucký, Hradecký, Pardubický, so I could continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u5	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now Karel Šidlo as the plaintiff of the second point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, allow me to begin by thanking all colleagues and colleagues who have supported the inclusion of the point currently on the board on the agenda for this meeting and have even participated in the firm inclusion on today's day. I believe that everyone has understood how serious the situation is in order to justify the inclusion of these points, and now I am not only referring to how many buildings it has or does not have EIA, but to our national economy. Because let's say we are dependent on exports, but on the other side of the construction industry in the Czech Republic, it slowly lights out. Big companies are looking for jobs abroad. And if we take the figures published by the Czech Statistical Office recently, it is a rather trivial view that construction has fallen by 39 percent in seven months of this year and engineering, where transport structures belong, even 43 percent. It concerns both the state and the municipal sector. It's a really crappy result. It's indicative of what my colleague Stanjura was talking about a while ago. That is why I am glad that this debate has also been linked so that we do not return on two points to the same, because there will be similar arguments. It's really trivial, because the buildings aren't ready. And when one closely followed the development of this year at the end of the first half of the year, when we discussed the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, both ministers, who had already spoken today, both the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Transport, assured us, representatives of individual political entities, that they would do their utmost to ensure that, where we lost the valid EIA decision, constructions that have consent in the exceptions negotiated by the European Union would be obtained as quickly as possible. Let me remind you of one thing. I'm quite the optimist in life. Perhaps, despite my long work in politics, here in the Chamber of Deputies, I am still willing to trust some of the promises of ministers. And I really have to go back to what the Minister of Transport said in 2015. Let me quote that because these are numbers that need to be remembered. At the Czech Construction Forum in 2016, the Minister of Transport said in 2015 that 223 kilometres of motorways in the Czech Republic would start in 2016. Shortly thereafter, he stated on the radio that a total of 400 kilometres of motorways would be built by the end of 2017, and there should also be expressways and first-class roads, which means new constructions. This year, only one building was started, part D3 between Bošilec and Ševětín with length - I stress - 8 kilometers. For next year, the Minister promises in his own press release of 16 August to start building only - this is a modified number - 141 km of motorways. Completion of key, such as the Prague Circuit, which has been discussed here, D52 to the border with Austria, D35 to Hradec Králové are, in my opinion, completely out of sight, that means even the kilometric lengths of these roads cannot be counted even though they have been promised. I believe that it is evidence of some excessive optimism of the Minister, if I do not want to call it that, in his comments, and that the fact of the last three years from 2013 to 2016 - only less than 35 kilometers of new motorways was launched. Compare it to the announcement. Compare it to the numbers. And that's the first reason I asked for this point. Because when you take these numbers and you learn from the press and from the Minister's information that, in fact, I think now the Minister of the Environment, that those buildings that were approved by us under the promise that they would be intensively working with the preparation of other buildings, the annex will be reduced by one construction - extended by Rudná in the Moravian-Silesian Region - and finally promised by the Prague Circuit, where there was a hard condition for all political entities, that it had to continue at the cost of including its own resources and the lack of European resources related to the Transport II operational programme, I was convinced that these two buildings, which are currently with a great questioner, whether their implementation would take place at the same time as those statements and the facts that we have so far, are very concerned that it would happen at all. I raised another problem on this issue, and that is that we will be promised that there will be intensive negotiations between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport in order to obtain the necessary, renewed environmental impact assessment, so this is the point 258 where they are without exception in force in the EIA, and that they will be acted on so that we will gradually learn how their preparation will be carried out. [[17.10 hours]] More than three months have passed since these promises. When we acted on the Economic Committee, we were given the form of a table where certain promises were made in the form of pigeons on the roof because there are too many unknowns. There's a question of an optimistic variant, a pessimistic variant, and we didn't even know what the pessimist really meant, because it wasn't realistic either. And there's a big problem, if we can even work our way into actually overcoming some of the construction work, choosing suppliers, and really really starting the construction. I think that the two specific and key buildings that one was eliminated from the dozens of accelerated negotiations, the other being a big question mark so far, because I was very surprised yesterday by the expression of the Prague City Council, including the Central Bohemia Region, that it was a priority building for them, construction 511, because there was something completely different on the Economic Committee, which upset my colleague Laudát that I thought it would be on the pills. [[unintelligible]] Because it was a really serious situation when Prague declared to you that the construction is not its problem, that it is the problem of government and ŘSD, it is a very trivial matter for me when it directly concerns its own intraviláne, virtually. a mild extravilion of Prague because it is a highway bypass. This, I think, did not help the situation at all, and it has even more broken down the views that have essentially been united on the economic committee of the cross-section of the political spectrum. I'm sure yesterday's statement fixed that. Even some would-be attempt to block the transit of truck transit, which is supposed to be the reason that will affect the speed up of negotiations and perhaps the launch of these priority buildings. However, as you could read in the item of the programme and in my initial reasoning, I was also concerned with the other constructions, because the Czech Republic is waiting for other constructions in addition to these certain priorities. And here I am very interested in how the Ministry of Transport prepares the exact timetable for submitting requests for renewal of the EIA opinion so that the preparation of these buildings can continue. How it prepares these buildings in the time horizon, especially because of whether or not it will be possible to draw on the funds prepared by the State. Alternatively, if the European Union's resources can be involved, because these are important constructions. I understand that for the whole Republic, the highway bypass between D1 and Běchovice is probably the biggest tip so that the truck and passenger transport back to the city centre is not to be driven around the perimeter. So I understand that in every region, and it was right here, we have our other priority structures. And I have to admit, as West Bohemia, that I am in a terrible impression of the situation where we, when negotiating with Lower Bavaria and Horní Falcí, had a huge lead in the preparation of transport infrastructure structures, whether road or rail, and today we are in a situation that the German side is at the border of the Czech Republic, will open new road communication, from a capacity road communication, and to our original, where we do not even bypass Babylon, we are currently playing around Staňkov, but this is a construction that has three and a half kilometers and does not solve the whole I/26, and here I could name other buildings, so the Němec will bring us around 17,000 vehicles a day and it will be almost 10,000 trucks. I do not know how our transport infrastructure is able to manage this if all preparatory work is not properly completed, projects will not be completed, funding will not be provided and the real time will not change this transport infrastructure by new construction. I believe that without new leads, and that is the content of the express roads, or the first classes, they are certainly in that TEN-T system, because there is intensive traffic going, Europe knows them, and I am terribly concerned that we do not know how to do this. And according to the timetable, as we've seen in at least the two buildings, there's no way that the other 88 will continue their successful preparation. That is why, in a detailed debate, I will then prepare a resolution and ask for its support. And I believe that the ministers, as they submit to the government, should also honor the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and regularly, as audit bodies, provide us with information on how the preparation of the buildings, the actual implementation and the provision of financing is progressing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u7	I thank Mr Karel Šidl. And to let you know that I have everything marked, according to how we have approved the procedure, the rapporteur will now speak to both František Laudát's press and then, in the debate, the factual remarks of colleagues Kolovratník, Pilný, Semelová, Urban. And the proper debate is on the board, that is. colleague Leo Luzar, Petr Bendl, Jan Zahradník and Michal Kučera. So I'm sure he'll get to each and every one of you. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've prepared the whole thing - and they're already laughing at me for having files. On the issue of EIA, the issue of tolls on motorways and selected sections of I. class roads. I was prepared with a huge selection of what the Minister of Transport promised, what was said by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš as regards special transport infrastructure. But since I really don't want to make this an election cowgirl and literally laugh, I'm gonna try a little bit more serious. We know that - and even in theory or in the philosophy of postmodern society there is something, directly operating there with the term "terror of active minorities". In the case of infrastructure construction, not only transport, it has already spread almost everything, so we actually see that the construction of the basic motorway network, there it is the most escalating, and today we are talking about it, so it is really stopped. If we were to build, or rather not build at the same pace, we really are a disgrace not only to Europe, to Central Europe, but to the whole world. What kind of banana republic doesn't have problems, and we have problems. I am sorry that it seems to be quite understandable now, however, that there is an election campaign and so on, so Mr Babiš, and it is one of the reasons why I wanted us to deal with the Department of Transport here, in the end it has narrowed down to this problem, and as I see logged in by the debating, there is a first and very crucial step to move something. But I'm a bit moved by Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who drives around the Republic saying sentences that are just a simple lie to the public. Anyway, all you have to do is look at the money, they tell you everything. So, according to the Vice Prime Minister, we're up one hundred and six, and there are golden times everywhere. However, we received a letter to the Economic Committee on 10 August from the President of the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, who drew attention to the absolutely catastrophic situation, and it was very shortly after that, he probably already realized that its members were already very keen on the state of the realization of transport structures. And it actually came from the fact that the Czech Statistical Office published very clear figures. And I'm gonna repeat this, just pointing out that the September numbers were even more trivial. First of all, in the first half of this year, construction production fell double-digit again year-on-year in June. As I recall, it was 14 percent, or 14.5 percent. The loss since the beginning of the year, the decline is 10 percent. As far as public procurement is concerned, Mr. Transport Minister, what did you start when construction contracts fell by 39 per cent over seven months and engineering, which is a kind of indicator, what will happen, and even 43 per cent? Of course, it is a share, because our construction is unfortunately very much linked not to the private sector, but to the public sector, so of course I do not have any figures that would divide as far as the regional and municipal sphere and what belongs to the state. However, the state still plays a key role in this. [[17.20 hours]] To the municipal sector and to the very trivial experience of the Prague capital's politics, especially one, but when I look at how the negotiations on tomorrow's council developed, the current government representation at Prague City Hall, I will return to that a little bit. The fact that the economy is growing and the construction industry is going into this downturn is very rusty. And I'm not going to quote here - all the political parties got him, and as he's here in the letter, the Minister of Transport got him, and if I'm not mistaken, so is the Minister of the Environment. I'm not here to discuss the matter of the ten priority buildings. I just want to say that the piece of information I hear about the government's negotiations on exceptions for those ten, today only nine priority buildings, as is the case with the European Union. I assume either the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Transport will come clean here. I would like to know - I have turned to Prime Minister Sobotka on the basis of some unconfirmed information at the last House in July of this year so far informally, which is why I wanted him to be here, that there is supposed to be some letter from President Juncker that he allows or agrees with the ten exceptions. However, the total exemption ends when Czech or national or European legislation is not complied with. So I'd like you to answer this, whether or not the information is true. If it isn't, it must have come to pass that today it is somehow written and defined for what this exception and how it applies. For the next one. I would like a very clear answer. We, in turn, are on the Economic Committee, and the members of the government coalition are angry about this - and we do not have clear information as to how things are with the amendment to the Construction Act. In this discussion of the Economic Committee, which was nothing more than the implementation of the accompanying resolution of the House, which, by the way, you adopted unanimously from those present here, or perhaps in one delay, which was about the one section of the Prague Circuit, the building 511, there were really desperate proposals that, in fact, without the Act on Line Buildings, there would be no solution. Well, if we're gonna wait for a miracle, we're not gonna see it. Just four years will be gone, and you, your government, ministers and absent Prime Minister, will, in my estimation, have the worst possible results if they were married for four years. I will then recount it at the end of 1970, when the construction of motorways and express roads in the Czech Republic began, if I merge these two categories today. I would just like to point out that in 2014, when you ruled - but well, it's a bit of a run - you opened from new buildings - because the public takes that you will repair some roads, but she is waiting, Babiš promises and you promise a qualitative break - you opened the expressway from Hrádek nad Nisou to the state border, that's the move to Zittau. For the next one. Last year you opened from the four lanes, if I'm not mistaken, and if so, Mr. Transport Minister, fill me in, 4.1 or 3.1 km of that today already highway on the Karlovy Vary road, where no one can be surprised when on the straight section begins suddenly in the fields 4 km section and soon ends practically, if I am not mistaken, more or less in the original track of the road. Not that it wouldn't be necessary, because Karlovy Vary long dreams of being connected from Prague by four lanes. I didn't share Prachařův's opinion, which stopped all preparations and researched that it would take a three-string to keep people from killing each other in 200 years. Anyway. So that's another thing. I will then want us to vote on a resolution that we would strongly ask the government to finally come, regardless of whether you are arguing with the Minister for Regional Development in the government or not, I don't know, you are unable to agree to settle comments to come up with the amendment to the Construction Act. If you are not, we can try to find consensus in the House. For the next one. The environmental representative, and the Minister, I think, also promises another EIA amendment, so that it is still not a promise and it is still not moving anywhere, so I would also like us to limit the strong request, so when it arrives in the House of Law Amendment - I will say briefly again - EIA. For the next one. I'm going to suggest that if the promoters of this point do not do it, so that what we did for the 511 at the Prague Circuit, we have at least a quarterly frequency of information on the preparation of all road constructions, at least road constructions. All of them. And quarterly. Because the promises are actually falling, as my colleague Karel Šidlo spoke, under the table one by one. I would very much like my colleague Stanjura to talk about it again. I'm afraid either you don't know or you didn't -- and now I'm talking to both ministers -- analysis of the legal security of the constructions' preparation. I am, of course - and I will simply break down the ANO movement, which supposedly should have put into that additionally produced electoral program that wants to place the 511 building in the Central Bohemia Region, so I really am very worried that - although I am a supporter of the 511 being in the lead that is being proposed today, because anything else is not only wrong in terms of time, catastrophically wrong, both the principles of territorial development and the territorial plans of the two regions concerned apply. And, of course, forty, fifty, maybe sixty years, they've been doing checkpoints in different ways. However, the crucial thing there is that the Prague Circle is not for traffic. He's roughly from some - in my era, he said 75 to 80 percent is the transfer of inner-city relationships. That means, what the current government representation wants, or the city representation in the capital, says perhaps unconsciously in other words. The rest of the traffic in the outer cordon, the urbanized HMP cordon, stays. Therefore, I am very concerned, given what one of their representatives has demonstrated on the Economic Committee, that the risk is not to be verified in any way and not to make the EIA or at least to update the other variants so that it is not, by chance, contested again and the administrative court has not sent the preparation to point zero. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say to you here - and I'm not gonna drag out my performance anymore, even if it was a little bit on the blink of an eye that I've changed my approach significantly, because we, as opposition, are ready to help, as has been said here. I'm very nervous about the collapse of the construction of transport, the collapse of not stopping. We're really ready to work together. But we can only work together if we have something to work with. And at this point, we don't have an amendment to the construction law, we don't have an EIA amendment. And unlike Mr. Prachař, who tells me on TV how I haven't written the Line Construction Act yet... I'm not writing it. Laws of this kind arose, whether it was in Germany or France, at a very different time, decades ago. Those states have negotiated exceptions. And please don't show yourself to the approaches that are long overtaken and have no chance of standing up to me. [[17.30 hours]] It's not possible to build a building first, and then to deal with property matters. If anyone wants to bend the Constitution like that, I think you're wasting your time. I would like the Minister of Transport to give us concrete management measures on how the ŘSD will work. I have nothing against his director-general, but I just still do not see the qualitative change so that the real preparation of buildings under existing legislation runs precisely, without mistakes, which are often based on the minorities, the active minorities, which then make it impossible to interest the overwhelming majority. So I would ask that very urgently. And I just see that time is running out and nothing happens in this. So, ladies and gentlemen, as I've announced, and I'd like you both to express yourself and finally start telling us the real, real state of affairs, and what's happening to the government during the hearing. There's no point in blocking anything in such a key matter, where we offer synergies, so that we can find out subversively. That's undignified. I am just pointing out that most likely this programming period, in which we are getting money for transport construction probably for the last time, perhaps for the very last time, so time is running and there is a risk that we will not build much, or it will be spent on, pardonfully, little things that will not bring a qualitative break, and next time we will be paying from national sources. And that would be a situation that would put us in the opposite guard. What we have been dealing with in recent decades, unlike the current Prague political representation, is that we have had the constructions ready and we have no financial resources for them. And unfortunately, I'm afraid, and this is perhaps the biggest nightmare that is being seen as this programming period is really developing for new buildings. So thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u9	Good evening, dear colleagues. I thank President Laudát. Now I have factual points. Mr Ivan Pilný, Mrs Marta Semelová, Mr Urban, Mr Kolovratník, followed by Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I am not sure that the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies should discuss individual buildings here. I don't know which priority is, I don't know if it's the Prague Circle or the buildings in Western Bohemia or the extended Rudná. If we do that, we're going to get the same frustrating result that was on the Economic Committee when we were discussing the 511 construction. Moreover, there were no representatives of Prague at all because they went to rent pandas. That doesn't make any sense to me. If the Chamber of Deputies has something to deal with as a plenary and should adopt a resolution on this, these are fundamental matters. I'll name some. The first thing has already been mentioned. There really is a need to prepare a unified building procedure. It already owes us the building bill etc., but nothing happens, and without it, the things just don't move and they'll repeat in circles. It is also necessary to establish a negotiating team in Brussels under the leadership of the Prime Minister, who will clearly state that transport structures are one of the key priorities of the Czech Republic and that it is necessary for the Czech Republic to adapt the relevant laws, both the construction of EIA and the construction of these buildings. And that this is a fundamental requirement that will possibly make further participation of the Czech Republic in the European Union conditional. A very strong policy needs to be put in place and not to be threatened by ongoing infringement or by the loss of subsidies. And also, the Chamber of Deputies, and it has already been mentioned here, should deal with what will happen when the European money runs out. Who's gonna build those roads, who's gonna keep them, with what resources. This is a major problem, and if we deal with it in 2020, we're not going anywhere. Furthermore, barriers to construction must be removed. There are more, one we removed today, those were the problems with engineering networks under constructions that are not owned by those who build them. These are the basic steps that the Chamber of Deputies should address and adopt the relevant resolution. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Semelová and her point of fact, Mr Milan Urban will be prepared, followed by Mr Kolovratník and Mr Kučera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to what has been said here about the negotiations of the Economic Committee. As a representative of the capital city of Prague, I was somewhat shocked to learn that the representative of Prague would not want to cooperate in any way to ensure that the Prague Circuit - specifically construction of 511 was resolved quickly. I must say that there is a consensus in the Prague City Representation across the political spectrum that this is indeed a priority building to which further communication is based. I know that there was also a meeting between the Mayor and the Deputy Minister for Transport and also with Central Bohemia to do everything possible to ensure that further progress is made. It is prepared for tomorrow's meeting of the council as well as a timetable and resolution, where a group or expert working committee should be established, which would work on this to benefit Prague and Central Bohemia. So I can tell you that we definitely support 511 at the Prague City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u13	Thank you. Mr Milan Urban and his point of order, followed by Mr Kolovratník and Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Transport ministers, and they've probably been busy painting things pink for a long time. Because the right, whether you want it or not, is simply the policy. And if those ministers don't talk a little bit more really and stop them from getting in the way, getting in the way, and swaying the rules so that they can build, then of course, we're not gonna get out of it. The Minister of Transport, it's not his fault he's not stopping by. He could be a genius. It's not even the director of ŘSD's fault, and there could be a diamond director of ŘSD. It's the rules. The rules that we passed. The rules that we've imposed on ourselves, or we've made them here, the European ones, on and on and on. I'll sign for what Ivan Pilný said. As long as the rules don't change, the transport ministers just won't build. They're gonna paint these things pink because there's always some choices, and it needs to look a little better than the reality. But they're not the transport ministers that we're supposed to criticize for not stopping by. There are simply others who have created rules that cannot be built in the Czech Republic. The fact that the public here is expressing itself several times, from anywhere in the European Union, to what we have to build here, and the courts are running on it, etc. is linked to the anti-business that we all know about, so it simply does not allow us to build normal buildings that we can call priority a thousand times. But it's not the Minister of Transport's fault. All we have to do is try to change the rules a little bit, because transport is and must be a priority of the Czech Republic within the European Union. I mean, I totally agree with what Ivan Pilný said here. Let's talk to each other about how, at least as far as we can make the rules, so that we can build something here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u15	I thank Mr Urban. Mr Kolovratník, after him, Mr Michal Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u16	Good evening. In that factual remark, I may speak a little like Milan Urban, although I am thinking of responding to the previous performances by Zbyněk Stanjura, František Laudát, Karel Šidl, such opposition giants in traffic as reciting poems from Jaroslav Seifert, but I will try. In my speech, I wanted to respond briefly to Zbyněk Stanjura, who is not here right now, and ask for facts and specific data, and not sub-level information, because I noted in Stanjura's speech that D35 from my region, from Eastern Bohemia, had gotten into that list by some chance. Well, of course it's not true. My colleague Stanjura knows that very well. D35 is one of the main buildings, and both of the ministers present will confirm that it was simply counted as having the highest priority. [[17.40 hours]] And here I just want to say, and I might as well be evil on this road, dealing with the region with its history, I could talk about Ivo Toman, a member of the ODS, who was a government agent for the construction of this road, and as far as I know, he didn't move an inch with it. I could talk about Vít Bárta, who stopped the buildings, but I'm not gonna do it. And I'm just gonna pick up Milan Urban, who played me beautifully. I'm glad we did a great experience here in the House last year, when, regardless of party cards, we agreed on that quick amendment to Act No. 416, relating mainly to land purchases, under this proposal we were signed by both opposition and coalition MPs. With the initiative last summer, it's a little over a year, our colleagues came to us and we actually agreed within one month. So I, too, want to declare this effort to cooperate, and I believe that when the ministers present for us, as Members of the Economic Committee, come, we are able to make this agreement, and we are able to help them with the rapid and small legislative arrangements in their work. I think the Czech infrastructure deserves it 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u17	Mr Michal Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u18	Hello, thank you for your word. I will respond here to the words of my previous speaker, President Pilný. I would have signed it all if he'd said it two years ago. It is clear that the Prime Minister was to act in Brussels. And he was to act but at a time when we approved this law. He was supposed to negotiate the terms under which it would be valid. Maybe even before it came to the House. That's when the Prime Minister was supposed to be there. Maybe he would have been there if Minister Brabec hadn't been fooling us all along for building up. I'm quoting his words here: "It's a mantra that we're not going to build. It's not true, we're gonna build anyway. It is a compromise between the ministries, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce." Perhaps if we had actually admitted and lied in our pockets that the approval of this law would not have built a kilometer of road or a kilometer of highway in the following years, as we pointed out here several times, then at that time Prime Minister Sobotka could have gone to Brussels to negotiate politically and could have actually found a compromise. I think that there are many agreements that are under way in Brussels, and he would certainly find a way to make the compromise in exchange for something else, even though, of course, it is not always happy. There were words about a merged procedure. That, of course, is also one of the options. But then it was promised to us two years ago, even Minister Brabec urged us to try him out of it next time he was here, so maybe you can try him out at the club, why isn't this merged or unified authorisation procedure yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to draw Mr Kučera's attention to read the relevant resolutions of the Economic Committee and the Committee on European Affairs, which I have initiated and which was served at that time and which exactly what I am saying here wanted. Unfortunately, nothing happened. Just for... The same words I'm saying here, I repeated two years ago, maybe it's more than that. But unfortunately, it's not happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u21	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Now duly signed up for the general debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess, nor did I expect to be next due to the number of factual remarks and, above all, to the excellent argument of my previous speakers on this matter. After hearing these comments, I became convinced that the Ministry of Transport was cursed. Either the minister has a cursed chair, or the carpet in front of the chair is cursed because it's the x-th Minister of Transport who's dragging this construction problem in front of him. The analysis was here, or was an attempt to solve these analyses. It sounds like we have bad legislation. But I have to ask here when else, other than when all three ministers concerned are from one political party, a consensus should be found on this procedure. I miss the Minister of Local Development here, of course. But all three concerned, who have the legislation that is important for these line constructions, are from one side and should find this agreement. And if they are unable to find this agreement, then there should be a representative, perhaps the Minister of Finance, as president or the entire government. But I'm concerned that the appeal to the fact that we have bad laws has prevented us for three years, knowing that for three years, to deal with these laws. Especially when they're from one side. I consider this to be the gentle alibiism that has been raised here. The question of the European Union and the excuse for the European Union is an excuse. We knew what the rules were, and if I had heard all the ministers coming to Brussels for the last three years, all the ministers were coming to this, all the ministers were coming from there with the promises they had made to us, and all the ministers who were going there never said, "We are at the end, Brussels ran out on us, we need a strong caliber, we need the Prime Minister, because we ministers are not able to deal with this. That never happened here, and if I have the information, even in the government, it never said that the minister would admit: no one is talking to me in Brussels. I need help with a strong caliber. Suddenly, it sounds like an apology argument that the Prime Minister didn't go and fight. The second such argument, which I consider to be gently alibiistic. The third argument that has not yet been made here, and maybe we can get to it, is the law on public procurement, which extends construction, their solution, their award. We recently approved an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. When I drew attention to these problems, I was talking about the existence of an Office for the Protection of Public Competition, which should be the advisory body that would help these complex buildings, which are directly commissioned by the Ministry. Maybe he wouldn't have to discuss appeals to the toll system or anything like that today. At that time you, colleagues, killed it because this office has a very large lobby between you, and it would be an additional job for him and he renounced it, he didn't want to do it, even though many backstage said it wouldn't be bad. Because who else is an expert than this office to provide professional service, to help the Minister and the Ministry, so that it doesn't have to hire expensive lawyers who ultimately can't do anything? There's been some questions that I'm going to join. And that's a matter of priorities. I'll be here - I can say no special - to agree with my colleague Stanjura. This Republic has two buildings it needs. He's naming them here. Really lightening the highway D1 by connecting Prague with Ostrava via Hradec Králové. And yet... [[Voice from the O.R.]] D35, and lightening the D1 I told my colleague not to scream through the O.R. And bypass Prague. Although Ostravak, and here it was also said, I could say that I don't care about Prague. I care about her because I come here quite often. These two buildings should perhaps be implemented quickly in consensus. But they've been talking about them for a long time - and here it comes, as it has already been said, the ecological lobby. But I don't want to discuss it. I want to focus on what was said here, what is the time saving of removing the ten buildings, or removing the building from this list. I presume the Minister of Transport will tell us his story. But I confess, there has also been an argument as to why we are bringing up individual buildings, that we are not experts and that we are rethinking these buildings here without being able to assess their importance ourselves. Wrong. We didn't bring it here, these buildings. This was taken by experts from the Ministry of Transport. This list that they presented to us here, and we barely approved it, was no longer valid. They've already found some other way without saying in advance that there may be exceptions or changes. [[17.50 hours]] I dare say that the building in question, the extended Rudná, which was said here if it had remained in those exceptions, would have been passable in 2017, or next year it would have been driven by it. Maybe that's smiling. But I'm using a letter here sent by the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region to the Prime Minister, where he mentions it as the indicator he was supposed to be here, and I think the companies that are building this building promised it. The minister is from such a company and I think that when he promised as a representative of the construction company to the regional representatives that then and then the construction would be that he wasn't making it up. So I take it as a relevant figure that in 2017, it should be driven on this road if it remains in these ten constructions. I wonder if the Minister will say that by removing it from this construction, 2017 will be respected. So what's the savings going to be? I ask that question, and I will be happy to have the Minister answer it. Perhaps this debate would not have occurred here at all if the Ministry of Transport had complied with at least a decent administrative procedure in the context of the negotiations. Here I would like to help and quote from the letter from the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region to the Prime Minister: "Dear Prime Minister, the above step has unfortunately arisen without elementary consultation with us. It's a step that's been taken about us without us and against us. We have no choice but to say that this proposal does not in any way contribute to the atmosphere of mutual trust between responsible ministries and us." That's the basis of the problem. Why doesn't the Ministry of Transport consult the locals, especially the affected ones, when it has decided to take a different route? Why does he leave it in Prague's decision making, his ministry? Here, I think it's the stumbling block that built this debate that's going on here today. Just some official who had a good idea, in quotes, in his opinion, who pushed through the government, sort of forgot to consult with those involved, that is, with the representatives of the Moravian-Silesian Region, especially when it was a week, fourteen days, three weeks after this House approved the classification of these buildings. And I consider this to be a flagrant violation of, say, human decency, at least, if not official procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u23	I thank Mr Luzar. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u24	Thank you for the floor. She's such a sad atmosphere here, maybe it's a part of it because it's from a material that we couldn't even read, because it's probably just oral information, there's no print number or anything, so it doesn't matter that the public knows that we have some kind of basis for which we have a chance to express ourselves. I think it is unfortunately, and it is difficult to argue today, and perhaps unnecessary, about who caused it, whether the Minister of the Environment Brabec, or the Minister of Transport Ťok, or one of his predecessors, or the Prime Minister. The bottom line is the result. The result of the work, virtually. doesn't work, means that construction stops, that we're divination from a crystal ball, when about those new buildings will really be physically, and that it's clear that we're just going to have to go back to the beginning. These are facts that no one can move, and no one can be sure, it fell here several times to say that in 2019 we will start some construction, or in 2023, I have already read this, where the Prime Minister says what everything will not be built. These are all imaginary things that unfortunately in 2023 will be of interest to those who will sit here and curse us that we have done little in this regard. However, it is necessary to mention here, because we are talking about transport constructions and motorways, but no one has yet remembered the railway, no one has remembered the transport constructions on the rivers, the water transport infrastructure that is stopping by. Especially for North Bohemia, but also for Prague the navigation of the Elbe and Vltava is certainly an interesting topic. All of this will go to the beginning as well as railway transport infrastructure, fast track and so on. It'll all come back. And we'll be coming back years. The chairman of the Economic Committee here, on the one hand, said why we are discussing this here in the Chamber of Deputies, but on the other hand, he replied that when they made a resolution on the committee responsible for the fact that nothing really happened. So where else can we discuss this and at least say something about it rather than at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and try to force competent people to move more and do even in a situation where milk is spilled, at least something? I will conclude what I want to say by proposing a resolution, where I hope that across the political spectrum, if we believe that we are to receive such information regularly, and I will point out written information in order to have some groundwork, and if then the committees, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Economic Committee, the Committee on European Integration, because it is also European money or other committees, budgetary etc., will want to deal with this, nothing will prevent them from doing so. But I think that we should adopt a resolution by which we commit the government to present - and I say for myself no later than the first proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies next year, written information on how the negotiations and preparation of key buildings continue and whether, perhaps, something has happened somewhere that we will start with realization. Although, as the previous speaker, Mr Luzar, said here, the Public Procurement Act does not delay those key structures, because unfortunately they will not be long at this stage. [[He's laughing.]] At least we need a building permit or a zoning decision before we start looking for contractors, and we are really very far away from that. About what fell here. I don't think the Prime Minister needs a team. He's got it, but he's not. I think there's a deep problem that none of us are able to do much about. And the fact that European money runs out is basically clear. This is the last financial period when someone will give us some significant resources for our transport infrastructure when the question is what will happen to Europe in seven years, or six, or five, what will be left for the end of the financial period. However, it must be clear to all what the answer to the question of where the money for transport infrastructure will be taken. With own funds, from the state budget, without European money. That's why we're here and from the opposition saying that we're ready to look for any solutions that will lead to building as soon as possible where everything's basically already been negotiated. I can imagine for myself such an exceptional situation, which was once applied by the Chamber of Deputies, when an exceptional law was adopted, which allowed a part of the D5 around Pilsen to be built. I can imagine that some kind of lex transport infrastructure around Prague, to be exact, because it is not a Prague circuit, it makes people feel that Prague is discussing it, that it is a Prague issue. It was in the vast majority always the Central Bohemia Regional Authority, who discussed and gave permission to individual parts of the Prague circuit. [[18.00 hours]] But that's not the point. The important thing is that the circuit should be as soon as possible, because even in individual municipalities and cities it is built. And the transport infrastructure will have it harder and harder in the future. And if we want to use this strategic position that the Czech Republic has, then we should help key transport structures to be implemented as soon as possible. If it is R35 and the circuit around Prague, or if it still includes D3 or D6 or other transport structures, I think it should be of interest to the government to seek such consensus and offer solutions, perhaps as Minister of Transport and Minister of the Environment. I'm not saying that, because I can't do it without him. At the same time, I intercede for not just roads and highways, but for buildings that lighten the transport infrastructure, such as railroads and water roads. We've been talking about that for a long time, too. We have complicated the situation by adopting a law on the environmental impact of buildings. And it's a mistake, it's a shame, it's the useless work of thousands of people involved in building construction, and now, I'm gonna say, we're gonna cry over the profits, or they're gonna have to go back to discussing it. And the old, already discussed and settled things will appear again on the table, and it will take much longer than it has taken so far. After all, that's what everyone here said, so I don't want to repeat it in individual ways. I would argue and propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government to submit written information on the continuation of preparations and implementation of transport structures at the first meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in 2017." If we deposit it to the government or the minister, it doesn't really matter. But I insist it's written so we have something to lean on. And also in their regions to argue in case things move or move. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask for the text of the motion for a resolution. And I will ask the Member to join him in a detailed debate. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u26	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I also consider it my duty to comment on this issue, on this point, because I have been active in the process of discussing this environmental impact assessment law. I also remember, together with my colleague Pilný, how we first met with the initiative of the European Commission to amend the law then in force. It was sometimes from the spring of 2014 and the Committee on European Affairs - and here I have to humbly sign up for the co-authorship of the resolution we wrote with my colleague Pilný - explicitly warned the Czech Government that if the EIA Act was adopted in the form required at the time, it would block the construction of roads, motorways and other large buildings in the Czech Republic and significantly affect our competitiveness and economic development. This resolution has been adopted. It can be traced in the minutes of the committee, but the government, unfortunately, did not learn any lessons from the House. The law was adopted in the form in which it was. Despite the fact that we warned about what he could bring. Failure to deal with the European Commission and to negotiate that retroactivity will not be applied. That we're not going back to the old, valid assessments. None of the major actors, neither the Prime Minister nor any of the ministers went to Brussels and negotiated with Brussels, with the European Commission exceptions for the EIA assessment already in force. We have the situation we have. And now we're trying to put it out somehow. I must say, for me as South Bohemia is the key construction of the D3 motorway. Our region is one of the regions that is not connected to European transport networks. We're missing the D3 motorway. The highway has, you might say, three neural points at the moment. It was built to bypass Tabor. It works and relieves significantly the cities of Sezimův Ústí, Soběslavi, Plané nad Lužnicí. It significantly simplifies the life of the population, which was very difficult when road 1st class No. 3 led through their cities. The route from Veselí, from Bošilce to the northern edge of České Budějovice is now being built. She's in the process. Perhaps in due time sometime by the end of next year, perhaps the next one, will be completed. Then there are three such neural points. I said, first of all, it's the České Budějovice bypass. Well, maybe this is where the Commission will give us an exception. We here have approved a very strong majority of the House resolution, or I would even say some legal standard that we are asking for exceptions. Then there is the connection of the northern edge of the South Bohemia Region. From Mezno to Prague, then. Here is the situation where we have the EIA, we have the principles of territorial development, but unfortunately there is not such a broad civic consensus for a motorway like the South Bohemia. Now, according to my information, a new association of municipalities is being formed against the construction of the D3 motorway. Against her current route. They're trying to come up with some new routes. The association is allegedly headed by the former director of the Prague or Central Bohemia ŘSD. Now I've lost that name, but that's okay. That's where it's jammed. We wouldn't even like to say it as a patriot of the Czech Republic, but we would almost resign from going to Prague sometime. Looks like it's being pushed somewhere forever. And then there's the Budějovický bypass. I've already talked about this. And then there's what's crucial to us South Bohemia, and that's the connection to our southern neighbors. On our southern border, i.e. from České Budějovice to Dolní Dvořiště. It shocks us all here and surprises us all how well our neighbors build. In the short time of a few years there was a motorway connection from Linz to Unterweitersdorf, its highway first station, up to Freistadt. A beautiful highway not only would I say purposeful, effective, but I dare say aesthetic. It's up and running. The Rakušan said themselves that they would end up in Freistadt, because if they went all the way to Wullowitz, that is, to Dolní Dvořiště with us, they would have to be crazy. That's three of those basic sections. It is Trebonín - Kaplice railway station, Kaplice railway station - Nažidla, Nažidla - Dolní Dvořiště. About 25 km of highway. The word "Nažidla" - it's always a little chilly in my back. I arrived at that place when less than an hour passed after a horrible bus accident, when 19 people died there. We all thought we had to finish the freeway. That only because of the victims that may be there every week. Every hundred meters, there's a monument. That was 2003. And it's not, it's not done. Not only that, but even the construction itself is at risk. The idea itself, the intention is in great danger. The government doesn't do that or I think it's doing the wrong thing. And I'm not just saying this government. The previous governments. I have heard promises that the motorway in southern Bohemia will be completed 2007. Then said then Prime Minister Špidla in 2010. These are terms of the past that have not been fulfilled. And now we're hearing another 2021, 2022. And we have great doubts. [[18.10 hours]] Why do we have such doubts? I can also think that the government, because it has money and because we were prepared in the south of Bohemia until trouble with the EIA, it could be built. But now the EIA has to work on this section all over again. As I read in the report by ŘSD, which we received at the meeting of the Association for D3 held yesterday at the Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region, geological surveys are starting to be made as a basis for new EIA assessments. Okay. Let's move on to making these assessments. Every citizen said well, this one fell for you, so start making new assessments, start doing it again. But we have given in our law - and I have to go back to that and remind them of the enormous power of environmental activists. They have the power to enter the EIA process at any time, stop the process and make it actually irreversible, terminated. And it has to happen again. The next question is, and I think that is a key question - according to the new law, the decisions on environmental impact assessment are final. This means that if God forbid any other assessment, other environmentalists, other officials decided that the construction simply doesn't respond and has a bad impact on the environment, we wouldn't get the assessment, so it's over. This is not a recommendation, it is a binding position. What are we gonna do? We've had the route ready for many years, with broad civic support. There is no village in South Bohemia that protests in any way. Except for a few green ecologists, there's no one to question the highway route. What are we gonna do? Shall we go back to the beginning and look for another route? What are we gonna do? That is the question that this law has simply raised. That is why I join those, and I think my colleague Pilný has mentioned this here, who are calling for the government to quickly prepare an amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which would put environmental and other NGOs in a position comparable to that of other citizens, in order to take away the right to significantly block any construction and thus affect the lives of other people. I will, of course, join in this and support the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague Bendl. This is rather an administrative resolution that will enable us to be well informed. But I'm still not going to make a proposal. I don't think it would have any effect, either. I am merely addressing the appeal to the ministers here: Prosít na government, so that the EIA law will make substantial changes to all-powerful environmental activists. And, of course, let us all here, Members and Members, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, personally discuss our interests in Brussels, in order to promote in Brussels that building motorways is the main development priority of the Czech Republic. With this, the Prime Minister should go to Brussels repeatedly, and this interest in our Republic should be held there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u27	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another for the general debate is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u28	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm going to be very short because there's been a lot said and with the overwhelming majority of what my previous speakers have said here, I have to agree completely. Like them, I want to sign up for a consensus, that is, a consensus across the political spectrum, to see which buildings we have to build, which is the priority, and which we really have to make the effort up to. I'm afraid, unlike my colleagues here, that it can't be construction two. We've already seen these examples in the discussion. Of course, when it comes to priorities, of course, a representative of the Moravian-Silesian Region will come forward, because the priorities and the Moravian-Silesian Region are one, I mean in good terms, I don't mean in bad terms, and of course a colleague from South Bohemia who tells us what the importance of the D3 motorway is. I mean, if we are to define priority buildings, priorities should really respect regional needs, which means they should respect needs in individual regions. If we have allowed ourselves to define ten, then nine priority buildings, where the EIA will be shortened, and we have approved it even by a separate law, then I do not see the only reason why we could not define our priority buildings by the number of regions, which means that each region in question is satisfied in its essence and knows that this House is thinking about it as well as of course its problems. That means, I call, yes, let's agree, let's make a consensus, let's set priorities, but priorities just can't be logically two, because it just brings more conjecture. The priorities must respect at least the number of regions. And, of course, as D35 was mentioned here, as my colleague Zahradník here spoke of D3, I can also speak of the D7 motorway, which is now quite rightly called the Death Road. I'm guessing three more dead last week on the Loun or Louna bypass, which is probably one of the most tragic sections. I mean, this section was supposed to start in 2018. It was all ready for it, there was even money in the budget for it. According to the Minister of Transport, which I have today and, of course, which respects the situation, that is, I don't blame him in any way, so in 2017, Loun will begin to process project documentation for bypassing. That means the whole process will start all over again. Highway D7 doesn't have the same problem as highway D3. That means there's a consensus, there's a consensus. There's a consensus between all the authorities, there's a consensus between all the citizens, there's no protests by activists or anyone else. Everyone wants to complete this highway and get it up and running. They are all aware of the tragic consequences that are there today and daily. I would like to point out that the Ústí Region is one of the most affected regions in the Czech Republic and should be in the interest of this House to help these regions. We can't just help them by pouring in the money to the socially weak. This, for God's sake, will not bring us prosperity! Prosperity will only bring us when we connect the region to other regions so that the economy can really start on those wheels. Of course, it is not the only way to prosperity, but one of the cornerstones. I'm almost done. I would like to document the tragic state of preparation and construction of the D7 motorway by documenting the fact that there is another section that should be built next year and will start next year, and this is bypassing the Virgin Týnce. The project documentation will be launched next year. Next week, the construction of the section, which will be Postoloprty - Bitozeves, will begin. That's 19. 9. I mean, this section was competed for Minister Bárta. Competitive for Minister Bárta! Now, 19. The 9th year 2016 will start to build. I consider this to be a completely tragic failure in the organisation and construction of this road. This means, in conclusion, I would really like to challenge, let us define priorities. I dare you to do so. There can't be two priorities. It just brings bad blood. Let these be priorities that respect the regions. They respect regions that have significant social problems and which connect their future with the communication, as is the Ústí Region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u30	I'm sorry, but I'm gonna try your patience for two more minutes. This isn't about the priorities of individual buildings. Money is enough, but we have to allow the ŘSD, respectively. other organizations could have really implemented these buildings. It's not about which building first and which one after that. We have to change the rules by which we can, virtually. cannot build in the Czech Republic. The EIA, the new EIA, basically doesn't allow anything to be built at least at some reasonable time, and it needs to be changed. It is necessary to change the whole system of the approval of these buildings and that is about seven ministries at least plus a lot of other institutions. And if we don't change the rules, there's no point in saying - and I understand that, of course, you're defending regional interests, and I'm not arguing for who's right, what priority. But if we change the rules, everything can start building pretty quickly. Because today it is not a question of funds. It is simply a question of the fact that the rules that we have for building this importance do not allow the current rules to be implemented quickly and quickly. If a priority should be approved here, that is the priority that the Chamber of Deputies wants, asks etc. on the minimum amendment of the rules for the construction of transport infrastructure, and as quickly as possible, both in the context of the Czech Government's negotiations and of course in the context of the Czech Government's negotiations in Brussels. And this has been said several times. There's no other way. Otherwise, we can debate here that D3 or any other road is a greater priority, but in my opinion, the greatest priority is to change the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. With factual remarks, Mr Kučera, Mr Stanjura and Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u32	Thank you for the floor. I agree with my colleague Urban more or less. I strongly agree with that. Yes, let's do it this way. But before we change the rules, it'll be the end of our term, it'll be the next few years. Let's see how long the pretty simple laws have been going on here. This law will be quite difficult, it won't be easy. And in the meantime, we just have to build. What I'm talking about here, about the priorities, is that we're just going to e-mail all the available capacities, whether they're projection, whether they're administrative or otherwise, to speed up the processes, to speed up the project documentation, to speed up the authorisation processes, to speed up the construction process. That's what I'm talking about. These things, please, can run in parallel. They don't rule each other out. If we wait for the rules to change, then at the Loun bypass - I don't want to be too emotional - there will be dozens more dead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u34	Just two short lines for what Mr Urban said. So far, the money is, and we've got six years tops. And if we don't use this time to change funding, then in six years, there won't be any more money. It may paradoxically happen that we will have drawers of valid permits and we will not have money, which will not go anywhere, just turn around, the reason why not. And the second thing the Prime Minister can do right now is decide who's gonna make changes to the rules. The resortism is a long-term failure of Czech rule. The fight for which the Ministry will write it is exactly an example - traffic will write something and MMR mainly protests that it writes to the right and not MMR. And I could continue the reverse guard, and so on. And that can be decided now. This can be decided by the government and say "this is a member of the government and is responsible for preparing a proposal for simplification of the rules" and we will respect that. It's not easy in these resorts to make order. But for that, the Prime Minister doesn't need the House or anything but a decision. To consult, to find the unfortunate man who will be in charge, because it will be really difficult. The resistance and screaming of these ideological opponents of the buildings will be enormous. If we're all scared of it, we're not gonna build anything. And just to the brink of the debate about Europe. Remember what we said. Minister Babiš said before you approve the EIA, we won't build. And we called it the other way around - we approve the EIA and we don't build. Judge for yourselves after a year and something when you passed the law, who was right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u35	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u36	When I listened to an important Member for social democracy, former Minister Milan Urban, I thought - now I'm looking for a decent expression - so what's stopping it? Mr Pilný here, Chairman of the Economic Committee, is fighting for us to have transport infrastructure as quickly as possible - an important member of the ANO movement. Social democracy says let's do something. So I don't think any of the people's people have spoken here, so maybe it's only the people's fault that they're not coming over and that we've adopted the rules that we've adopted and the laws that prevented us from building. So let's try to say goodbye, so let's start now and get this over with. We're going to say that this is a real priority and that we're going to try to do something about it, even though time is actually not enough. The regional elections are gonna break, now you're all gonna go campaigning, Christmas is gonna be, and since January, there's hardly anyone here to do anything. Six months is a legislative process, elections are basically at the door. So either something happens over the course of these two months and you bring something significant here - you have the opportunity to influence your government colleagues far more than we do, the opposition. Because that's what everyone's gonna tell us: you say that because you're in opposition. Well, hurry up and bring something in. I'm sure we'll be constructive, because we're really interested in doing something about it. Many of us have been in politics for a long time. My colleague, Minister Brabec, Member - we once promoted the transport connection and the railway connection Prague - Ruzyně - Kladno Airport. And the EIA is stopping this process! That's crazy! [[Time limit alert.]] Please try to take the words you used to say seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u37	With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say that everyone has a role to play. Here, Mr Urban and I have been called upon to do something that does not belong to us, because this complex law, which must begin in Brussels by changing the rules, cannot be done at national level. This must be fought out first so that it can be done at national level. This is the role of government and prime minister to do this, to prepare essential parameters for us to adopt national legislation. But this can't be done here by an MP or something. That's not our job. Our task is to monitor and challenge this, and so far uselessly, the government to act. Until we get out of Brussels' rules, we're not really gonna build anything, and we're not gonna accept national legislation. I know this trial is gonna be difficult, that we're gonna argue about it. But this is not about who the right or the left is, because everyone in this House, I believe, we want to build because we know that this is a priority. But we have divided roles, so let's finally do them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u39	With another factual remark, President Stanjura, followed by Mr Laudát, Mr Šidlo. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u40	I think my colleague Bendl meant it so that you could use your political influence on your government parties, not write it. I think we all understand that this is neither for the parliamentary initiative nor for a proposal from the opposition. And what you said about Brusel, Mr Pilný, through the Vice-President. I agree with you. But yesterday, we called again at another point for representatives of decisive political forces to come together and try to define what common Czech national interests are, which we will then promote - and that is certainly one of them. We've been talking about this for a long time. So we're ready for the debate. And you're right, a meeting like this can't be called by the opposition. A meeting on Czech national interests must be convened by the Prime Minister, which is simply the alternative. And we're ready for that, and I think we're aware of that. [[18.30 hours]] But - and you know that we are quite critical of Brusel - on the other hand, it is not quite true, because elsewhere the rules are simpler than we are. Not that they're easy, I'm not saying that, I'm saying it's easier. When we took the EIA, I said and criticized the Minister that he had chosen the hardest and most complex ones and we are even more papal than the Pope and brussels than Brussels. And it's very often in different laws, I remind you of the law on significant market power. You picked the worst out of every state, and you combined it together, and you always said, but this is also there, and this is also there, and that's all true, but if I put it together, I'm not gonna do anything. Why haven't you heard of our legitimate reservations not to raise the right of ideological opponents to boycott buildings? You didn't hear that. I know this noisy minority has applauded you. The Minister has avoided the title of ropák of the Year. You should fight for him, Minister! Or at least the Minister of Transport, one of them should get it. Then I say they're starting to do it right. There's no other way. This way, we'll be friendly, helpful, but we won't build anything. [[Time!]] The challenge was to take advantage of your political influence. Nothing else, no one's asking you to write it on your MP Monday or some other day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u41	Mr Laudát and his factual point, after which Mr Šidlo, then the Minister with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u42	Thank you. I am a follower of always taking concrete steps in everything. So I am making a procedural motion, because I have a resolution prepared and I have a motion for a resolution from my colleague Bendl, and Karel Šidlo has said that he will also make a proposal for us to discuss this point, which means that we should discuss it in a mandatory manner and vote on it even after 19 o'clock, because here I see the preparation of the Minister of the Environment for answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u43	I am afraid, my colleague, that your proposal is unvoting because the Chamber of Deputies is sitting within 21 hours and cannot vote after 19 o'clock only on laws and international treaties. This is not a law, we can discuss it until 21, so we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u44	Okay, I'm sorry, I take it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u45	Mr Šidlo and his factual point. Then Minister Brabec with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u46	Thank you for the floor. I just have a very brief reaction to my colleague Pilný. I have a feeling that the Chamber of Deputies has one crucial task, and that is the control of executives. We cannot merely summarize this on the fact that legislation is changing, but I am in favour of clearly controlling the government and checking the various ministers to see if they are fulfilling their roles. Today these points have been opened precisely because we have lost confidence that there will be a clear timetable and clear fulfilment of the tasks on which we have been given promises on the construction of transport infrastructure. This is also our role as the Chamber of Deputies. And executive proposals in the form of bills that are needed to meet individual objectives, this is also basically the duty of ministries and ministers and their legislative unions. I would not like a parliamentary initiative to actually work here in these important laws, some, I would say, changes that cannot find substantial support in the spectrum and will not be in line, for example. with what is negotiated in the European Union. I would very much like the House to fulfil its role and demand the government and the ministers to fulfill their promises, commitments, and what they have set for themselves during their term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u47	I thank Mr Šidl. With a point of fact, the Minister, after whom President Kalousek. Or doesn't the Minister want a factual remark? In that case, the factual remark of President Kalousek shall prevail. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u48	Thank you. Just a brief response to Mr Šidl. That the Chamber of Deputies has control over the government of the Czech Republic, which is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, is a diction from the Constitution. The question is whether we are all aware of this and whether we are respecting it. Today, the first Prime Minister, Chairman of the ANO movement, Member of the Chamber of Deputies, said that Members of the Chamber of Deputies are a bunch of desperate people who don't know where real life is. And if Mr Pilný is worthy of his boss's views, then we cannot be surprised that this way the political division of Agrofert approaches the tasks of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u49	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. I warn the Minister that if I finish the general debate, he will have a final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u50	Thank you for the floor. I guess I'll be a little shorter than my colleague Took, which is why I'm getting off early. I will be very constructive, or I will try to be very constructive. I don't really want to go back to the past, what someone did, and I thank all those colleagues who said they didn't want to do it, too, because I don't think it's relevant at this point, because we would have gotten many years back, and that's not the point. I'll start with the things that are ready and that will be in the House relatively soon and where we will definitely fight over the material. The first thing is an amendment to the construction law or a new construction law that should be in the government next week. He's been interrupted this week. He's going back to the government next week. He's been there with a few contradictions, but we're doing everything we can to deal with the contradictions. This amendment to the Construction Act already has in it coordinated uniform management of territorial and construction and some of the elements that we certainly all wanted and also promised. The EIA Act is also being amended, it is actually a transposition of the EIA Directive. There are, of course, about a thousand contradictions, virtually. proposals for serious comments from individual resorts. It is a novel which, of course, is under the close supervision of the European Commission, and I say this without any irony. And we will act in parallel again. And I absolutely promise here that we will go to the maximum limit, and I will appreciate all the support of the House, and we will certainly need all the support from the government, including the Prime Minister, to discuss the amendment, because it will be very difficult. I just want to remind you that the amendment we adopted - now I don't mean the extraordinary amendment of hundreds, but the amendment of 39/2015 - is seen in Brussels as a great concession to the Czech Republic. It's seen as the opposite here. And we're moving somewhere in between. So I totally take what my colleague Pilný has said, and I will be happy for any support that will be in this matter. These will be key standards - the construction law next week on the government, the EIA amendment, we will do everything we can to get it into the government by the end of October, so both of these standards should be in the House by the end of this year and we will talk about them. Of course, these novels have a number of things in them that are being called for here, and I will certainly do everything I can to get them into a state that will be consensual, because otherwise it doesn't make sense. I'd be on the Prague Circuit, right here, pointing out how a little bit of the material has been separated from the skin, how many times we've heard of the media stuff that falling off the priority list, it's not a priority building. Oh, my God, it's a priority building! Unfortunately, it fell off the list of priority buildings of the European Commission from the point of view of funding because it did not have a territorial decision that it had lost twice over the past few years. This is reality. But unfortunately it also happened, and my colleague Laudát can confirm that there is a battle of the city parts of Prague, some of which sign letters to Brussels and say that the chosen variant of the five hundred and eleven is wrong and that another should be chosen. This is really not helping us in Brusel when we are simply trying to convince them that there is a consensus of the Czech Republic or Prague. Prague knows it well, it also tries to fight it. And today we have found a basic consensus, a basic agreement on which path to go, and for several months or three quarters of a year, or even a year we have been going from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment sort of in the crisis regime approving all things, and now I mean the practical approval, because, colleagues, don't be angry, but it doesn't look like that in the House, so, of course, these things are being done very intensively practically. And we've already approved dozens, and even hundreds of projects under the law of 100, which have also had those exceptions, and they are approved as on the treadmill, just not mentioned because we don't consider it important to delay you with the information that something is running. But maybe it's a mistake. [[18.40 hours]] So the Prague Circuit is clearly a priority construction for the Ministry of the Environment, and we have made it clear that if it is up to us, we will not be able to delay by a day the deadline, which will be as the smallest cumulative sum of all administrative deadlines, from which we can no longer comply with it under six months to issue the EIA opinion once we have received the documentation. I don't want to comment on everyone here. I don't want to delay. There were some questions. I thought I answered part of it. My colleague, President Stanjura, asked about the time difference between the list of ten buildings, now nine, if the extended Red were there. I'm sure he's still going to talk about it, Mr. Jock. But there was a relatively acute risk that the project didn't meet one criterion that it wasn't on the TEN-T, so the whole list could easily be questioned. And at that moment, of course, of course, he would just... he can't be completely challenged by that list, the regulation, but one could be questioned by a building permit, in a building procedure. And that's the problem. Dear colleagues, it's not like before the EIA, before the novel, it all worked out great. There's always been an opportunity to challenge the process, whether in territorial proceedings or in building proceedings. And I look forward again to the debate that will be around the EIA amendment, because today we have dealt with a contradiction that concerns the public concerned and the public concerned. And I repeat here once again: Yes, I consider that someone from Aš may enter the proceedings in Ostrava, as a completely illogicality contrary to common sense. However, this results from the Aarhus Convention and is the caselaw of the European Court of Justice. Now tell me, what am I supposed to do with this? As Minister for a Member State of the European Commission. And my colleague from TOP 09 is leaving now, but my colleague Kučera is often a vocal oven of NGOs in some other things, i.e. environmental organisations, but on the other hand these environmental NGOs also give us nice salt in Brussels at DG Envi sometimes, and partly rightly, partly unjustly. [[The appointed one stopped at the door to hear the speaker]] So, my colleague - through you - you are also hard to cut into two halves, because you know well that many things that go against the novel or against those things are often unfortunately, they come from Bohemia, they are sent to Brussels, Brussels translates them into English and sends them back to us as their opinion. [[The speaker is turning to the President]] [[Mr Kučera shakes his head in dissent and leaves the hall.]] That's reality. We all know her. We all know her! She's difficult to compare with, because they often hold the purse. But I don't want to make excuses for it anymore, of course, and I'm not gonna make excuses for it. I promised I'd be shorter. Petr Bendl. Peter, through Mr President, navigating the Elbe has nothing to do with this. The Elbe navigation hasn't been EIA in 20 years. Swimming grade... There's just other problems. And unfortunately, it was the construction readiness again. And I would like to mention that. If the government hadn't made a whole series of mistakes in building preparation, which, of course, the complainers were using very skilfully, we'd be on our way, too, and those buildings would have been built long ago, and we didn't have to deal with what we're dealing with today. So there are a lot of reasons why we got into this state, and I don't want to go back to them. [[Responses from the right.]] In conclusion, because I'm sure I'm going to bring down some notes again and I'm ready for it -- yeah, by the way, an oil man, I was the third, if I'm not mistaken. But I don't quite think the Minister of the Environment should be looking for an oil man. [[With laughter.]] But it's always just about the setup, because... And now only to President Stanjur by your means, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, it's not true, it's not true that we've put on some combination of the worst options. It's really not true. And in the words of your former president, I would say, it's only very false, because the Slovak EIA is far worse. Slovakia has adopted the EIA amendment completely liberal with respect to all organisations. Anyone, any natural person, can sue there. There are thousands of them. Please, we have combined all models - Austrian, German and others - and we have tried to go the best way. On the contrary, the problem is that what simply works in Germany or Austria or elsewhere, so here it is considered an excuse to hack into it. I guess we've got other than the Western European morale and the rockets, and there's a lot of others. That's what it said. The not in my backyard system, yes, but not in my backyard, or not in my backyard, it just works here. Everyone wants to build highways, everybody wants industrial zones, but God forbid they're gonna run behind my house. You said it yourself, and it's true. And now it's where we're going to lead that line, and I think that line is clear. Let's give the public the right to speak, but once and for all. This is the objective of a single authorisation procedure, as proposed. Just don't express yourself three times. If you don't like it, someone will judge it, they'll call it off, we have the possibility of appeal, the court will decide. End of report, leave. That's it. In my opinion, that's the whole spell, and that's where we're headed. That's where we're headed. And try me on that. And that's where we're headed. And all our steps in the construction law and in the EIA amendment are aimed at this purpose. So I'd just resist it, it's not true that nothing's going on. A whole series of projects just go, they go successfully. And Minister Tok will definitely show that he's coming over, not that he's not coming over. But the fact that it goes slower, yes, you're right. I'm fed up with it, too, and I'm gonna do everything we can to get these things within some European legislative framework, and we're gonna fight like Eskimo dogs for moving these things to the very edge, so we're gonna try to do them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u51	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. Is that a factual remark or a proper application? Really. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u52	The minister of Ferda becomes an ant's Eskimo dog. But that's not why I applied. Minister, what you said is really crazy. Either you lied to me then or today. We with František Laudát warned you that the problem in the list of ten buildings is extended by Rudná, among other things, because it is problematic by TEN-T. [[unintelligible]] You said, "No problem." And today you're going to say, "There's a problem with the TEN-T issue." That's when you said it was okay. We've been alerting ahead. It doesn't matter. That's just a comment. So you either lied then or today. Choose for yourself what is true. Both claims cannot be true at the same time. A, or B. It can't be A and B at the same time. Secondly, you are so authoritarian about how the Ministry of the Environment will decide to say in the third sentence that this is the performance of the state administration. You have zero influence as a minister. So don't promise us anything you can't secure. Not because you don't want or can't, but because you can't legally. I can give you a specific example. We've been talking about I/68 Třenovice. First, informally. I've got an interview in writing from July 1st. And nothing is done because the transferred performance of the state administration stopped the construction. That's the reality. He's not stopping by today. Ask those who live there and who go there. And Slovakia. Let us always judge in writing and reality. Do you know how the highway in Slovakia was built? Do you know how much land they had when they started building it? I don't want us stopping like this. Then don't tell us as an example of how much worse it is. They didn't erase each other with any ownership. And they did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u53	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else applies to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a point here, I will try to respond briefly to what has been said here. I'll try to be short. To begin with, I would like to appreciate the positive atmosphere of the negotiations and rather offers for cooperation. I'm sure I'll take it, and I'll be happy to use it, in this case, for sure. However, I would either explain a few things or set the record straight. First, I'm going back to the extended Red. I was invited by President Stanjurou, through Mr President, to explain what is going on there, why it is happening there. We have indeed said in the negotiations you are following, and it is still true that the European Commission does not have an extended Red problem, not because it is not on the TEN-T network, but because it needs to be completed about 200 to 400 metres. So the European Commission does not have a problem with this. [[18.50 hours]] The problem is different. So why did we approach this and suggest that it be done by the detection procedure that we got away with? The problem is that we really wanted to speed up the construction. We wanted to move her on. Basically, what are we up to today? Finding out says there's no need for an EIA, which is why we're in the process today. There's an appeal period. You're right that probably the chronic complainant will appeal. However, that would have happened in the second trial. He would simply appeal against issuing a building permit or against any action that would be done there. In other words, the fact that we started the investigation process, we accelerated it by about two months, because if it was on that list, it would pass, but the appeal will be exactly the same. This is just about whether the administrative court, and I hope it doesn't take any precautions, because otherwise we go on, we build, we go on, the other matters will be resolved. According to my information, the complainant is still being dealt with. We've already promised him that we'll increase the noise barriers quite significantly above the standard and take further steps. So we still think the process is better. The reason that Minister Brabec spoke of is that if the complainant appealed against the list of ten buildings in which the extended Rudná would be, and that does not meet one condition of the TEN-T, we might have dropped the whole list because of this one construction and could be a problem of this type. That is why the Ministry of Transport came up with this proposal. If it turns out there's no other way, then of course we can put ten buildings on that list and an extended Rudna. The question is, would it help? But here I believe that common sense will be maintained and that there will be no preliminary action and that the extended Rudna will be launched as soon as possible and that it will be completed before it remains in the ten priority structures. But that will show the future. I'd like to get back to other things. It's been said that they're repairing themselves here headlessly and spending money that we're not able to spend in European. It's not true. The truth is a little different. The situation is that the repair system has its own system. And the system is very simple. Just if you have a road, highway network and you want it to stay in the same quality condition and not degrade, you have to fix 5% of this network every year. In the Czech Republic it is notabene about five billion a year. What's been going on in the last ten years? It just wasn't repairing. Most of the repairs were worth a billion, and we're just catching up on the deficit. That we're fixing a lot now, that's true. But if we don't fix it, the network will continue to degrade and we will get into a much worse situation. And I think it's obvious that it's being repaired and that things are just going on. Then Mr Šidl spoke about what we have promised and that we are not doing anything, and also about the fact that the construction works are going out and that there is a complete tragedy here. I'd go back to the construction business and the statistics. You know, judging statistics is a wonderful thing, and I think we need to look at the base, too. If you have a year as a base, in which we finished all the constructions from the last programming period, where the draw was about 96 billion. Every year, we have over 70 in this year's budget, so there's 20 billion. the difference, so just the optical decline is, of course, tragic. Yes, you're right about one thing. Construction companies don't have three to five filled stacks of work these days because these projects haven't been here in the long run. But it's not our fault we don't write jobs. We have contracts for about 60 billion that have now passed and are going through the government and are going to compete. So the work is set up. And, you know, there's another big paradox here. Everyone's calling here, and Mr. Matyáš is an example of what a crazy situation is that we don't have people and we have to release them. When I asked the construction companies to build on the D1 motorway and on other priority constructions where they work, the second shift, they sent me away that they didn't have people. So if someone's yelling that they don't have a job and they have to lay off, then I'm calling him to build a second shift and work harder there. Because if I have one shift working there for 12 hours, it won't do any more work. I want to see two shifts. But that's all there is to it. As for the initial sections: yes, some figures in 2015 were expected to succeed faster by the EIA. I didn't. However, I would show the table here, especially in this direction. [[It's pointing the table to the left.]] Look, here are the lengths of the initial sections of the buildings in the individual years. In 2010, I'll read it, 15 miles. In 2011 zero, in 2012 zero, in 2013 42,8. In 2014 zero, in 2015 it is 60, 2016 73 and 2017 it will be 193 km. So it's not like it doesn't start or do anything. It's just that the job is here and it will be. And I would also like to return to the question that has been raised here many times. I thank Mr President here for Urban very clear words, because he is right. You know, the Czech company is, and I wanted to blame the media for that, but I feel like it's a whole, a little schizophrenic. On the one hand, I'm criticized for not building enough, and how come the highways aren't anymore. But on the other hand, we're reading a lot of deep human stories that we want to expropriate someone. That he was used to living here and we want to put him away because that's where the ugly highway is supposed to run. And I feel like we really should get into a situation where we can get public interest. There's a lot of talk here, but we have one of the most complicated building procedures. And not just for the highways, but look, if you try to build something, even a family house. What you have to do to get through this process. Yes, the EIA has made a complication. The complication is that the public can express itself. But the public can express itself at any step. Look, before the Ministry is able to touch on it, you have the principles of territorial development of the region that lay out basic paths for us. Well, they're already under attack. And it's not a matter of the Ministry or the ŘSD or anyone else, it's a matter of the county. And here's a graph that shows how the construction work is going. [[He's pointing.]] It's just that the situation is insanely complicated. Today, seven ministries speak for the construction process. And I think that we really need to reach into the competence law and simplify the situation and clear it up. We're worried about what construction looks like, but nowadays, construction doesn't have a defense in either department, or it's seven. It's just not a situation that solves the whole situation either. It's very complicated. Now they're born, and the last government has begun to discuss the amendment to the construction law. I'm hoping all the comments will go the way they're supposed to. And I would just like to remind you and maybe ask you, and there was an offer to cooperate, so let's work together on the fact that some of the things that the House is discussing - I will now take the article, the noise decree that was being held in the paper today. And there was a very important person who understands this and who says how wrong it all is, Mr. Firbas, who has been blocking the fifty-two for us for a long time and all the other constructions in South Moravia. [[19.00 hours]] So let's talk about what's really important. And if it's important for the transport infrastructure and we want to help her, let's help her. It's not like they don't have enough money to work with the ŘSD or SŽDC or the Waterway Directorate today. We have the highest amount to prepare constructions, which in a long time is budgeted, which would be spent. The problem really is in the hundreds of assaults and the fact that if you don't have that last square metre of property owned, then you just can't get a building permit. So if there's any willingness, we'll be sure to inform the House about our steps. I am prepared to inform the House as we inform the government. On the other hand, if we really want to do something fundamental, and here I am taking the call through Mr. President to Mr. Bendl, let's do a lex circle of Prague and say we promote public interest there. Or let's do Lex Decin and put the lock through to navigate the Elbe. I would very much welcome it. And I think we need to look for ways to do that. I'm just gonna remind you of one thing that's been said here. It was said here that the law was made for the D5. It's true. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court was abolished shortly because the Constitutional Court had found that the public interest cannot be determined by law. Well, even in this, we have to answer how it's gonna work. So I welcome the willingness to help. I'm sure I like to accept the hand I'm offering. I am ready to inform the House of the steps that are happening. But don't take it like one genius step or one genius law of one minister will solve everything. It's a complex matter that hasn't been dealt with here for a long time. It needs to be resolved, because without it we will not be able to build effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u55	I thank the Minister for his final word. I'm asking the rapporteur for the final word. Not interested. We will proceed to a detailed debate in which President Stanjura first came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u56	So with priority rights at the moment, not with a factual reminder. The appearance of Minister Took seemed to me that he was in opposition for three years. Not that I disagreed with most of what he said -- let's go, let's do it, let's design it. But that is your job, Minister, through the Vice-President. Not ours. We have merely offered that we are prepared to be active in such negotiations and to look for such legislative solutions that will simplify these processes in general. Your explanation for the extended Red... I don't really feel like it. The SSD was against the chosen procedure. That's right, ask the CEO. Ask the people at the Ostrava race. I asked them all why they were against it. You as the enlightened ruler of the Ministry of Transport or your people have made the decision. I'll be glad to come back in two months and say I was wrong and you speeded it up. Really, and I have no problem coming up with it and saying it on the microphone here. You just didn't give up on the concerns of us who live in that region and who know the construction and the problems with the construction. And the excuse that someone could do it in a building permit... Well, he can still do that. Neither option can stop it. We just wanted to speed up this first step and time will judge us. We were just pointing out the risks. I wanted to know why. You're convinced you're speeding it up. Well, let's see if it works. And I wish I could. Not that I didn't. But the kilometers you showed, so first of all, when someone gets in 2013 or before the end of 2012, and by any chance in 2013 was a significantly better number than in 2012, so it wasn't the credit of whoever came in December. I guess we can agree on that. But what we agree on at least with Mr Šidl, you've been so chaste about this silence... He quoted your press release on how many kilometers you'll start next year. And you were wrong about 400 percent if I could handle the three-piece. That number was 220 something. You showed us 60? And you have the courage to come and move that number back a year earlier... And now you're saying, in 2017, it's going to be 170... No, no, no, you always say highways. Then we find the press releases, I read them yesterday in preparation - and I say, there's only a change of date. The list of buildings is the same. But that number doesn't mean anything. Have we started the I/68 Třanovice? They're starting. Is the building up today? It's standing. And we've got a tip that we've started eight or nine kilometers. Unfortunately, thanks to the state administration's performance, and I'm saying that the Minister is unable to influence this decision, and he can't even legally, the construction is worth it. Since spring. I first spoke to the Minister of the Environment about this in April. Then I sent the interpelation, then I got quite an optimistic answer, but it was already formulated by someone who knows it because he wrote: The shift in this action can only occur if the application was well processed... Maybe I'm paraphrasing it a little bit, but that's how it was written. That means the back door was already there. And the officials who made the decision took advantage of the back door, and unfortunately, the building isn't going. And who knows the situation there is actually the main move to Slovakia, so they know how problematic it is. Every day of delay is problematic. And as far as I know, Minister, you were editing the tape at the beginning, weren't you? Well, I/11 at Trinka's for sure. Well, I think so. It almost doesn't matter. It's not just the beginning that matters, it's the continuation of the construction. And of course, and you know this very well as a former member of Skanska that problems arise and the need to change something during the implementation. That's right, and there's no point in criticizing it. That's reality. And when the government responds to it in an inflexible, rigidly, alibistically, because everyone is afraid to make decisions, then it takes a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Kučera, Mr Laudát, with the right of priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u58	Thank you for the floor. I have the advantage that my colleague has already said everything I have to say. So maybe I'll mention one single thing from the Minister of Transport's speech, and that's why we're unable to work two shifts. That is an absolutely fundamental error. And the fact that we're supposed to be working two shifts, I think it must be part of a real job assignment. No wonder we have such expensive roads and highways. I didn't work in construction. I've been working in engineering all this time or in the electrical industry. If someone in engineering buys a CNC milling machine that costs several million crowns, they'll try to get the CNC milling machine to work on three or four shifts. When I see those set-up finishers for x million crowns that stop work at five o'clock, those dozers, those expensive work machines, then, Minister, no wonder we have such an expensive mile of highway. [[Big noise in the hall.]] That means that I would really like to call you here to be one of your priorities, to come back for two shifts. Because, of course, it's not just the price. It's also the speed of construction, it's also the time that limits and causes accidents on those sections. I want to recall two completely tragic sections where construction is not new, but of course repair, and this is the road from Ústí nad Labem to Lovosice, where, for me, the road is, of course, milling for me today and it is being repaired when, according to your words, the D8 motorway is supposed to be operational in two months, which will completely relieve this situation and seduce the truck traffic. And then, of course, this road could be repaired. So it's about driving and driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u59	Thank you. With the right of the rapporteur, Mr František Laudát. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u60	Thank you. I feel like we're coming to an end, I'm not gonna be here to comment on some of this stuff anymore. You have heard the discussion, I will not list here who has spoken many times, it is probably unnecessary, rather I would draw your attention to the motion for a resolution. I've received three suggestions. For one thing, I've been briefing you on a proposal, then it's Petr Bendl's proposal and Karel Šidl. Since we are very much in agreement in the information section we want from the Minister of Transport, I would like to ask if we can agree on a consensual text, which I will try to read to you later. So please listen and then, eventually, you could make counterproposals or additions, extensions and other suggestions. First of all, it would be an appeal to the government. So... Parliament's Chamber of Deputies strongly asks the Government of the Czech Republic to: 1. submitted the amendment to the Construction Act, the deadline of December 2016, the date of January 2017. - I'm running a practice here, or I'm just trying. The check deadline is that if it doesn't work, we'll get written information about where the problem is, if there's no notification, or if it's stuck somewhere. That term means that the train is not going through, and then the House resolution would not be fulfilled. That means a check deadline for the construction law. I'm based on the discussion with the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Šlechtová is not here, so that's her problem, so I'm based on what he said here, and it's rather generous terms. So, first of all, to submit an amendment to the Construction Act, a deadline of 12/2016, date of 01/2017. 2. He strongly asks, at all times, to submit an amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., EIA, date of review December 2016, date January 2017. And for the next one, please pay attention, that would be the compilation of the three designs: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to: 1. once every three months, he submitted a written report to the Chamber of Deputies on the procedure for preparing transport infrastructure buildings. /EIA, zoning decision, building permit, property settlement./ 2. The report will include an overview of the dates submitted for the EIA assessment at the Ministry of the Environment and the opinions already in force. 3. Another part will be an overview of the implementation of these transport projects, with the fact that - please note, I have been putting the deadline there since November, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So this is a proposal based on the three proposals that have been made here. Of course, it is up to Mr Bendl and Mr Šidl whether they would withdraw their proposals and agree on this detailed consensual proposal. That is all on my part, otherwise no one has yet come up with a motion for a resolution or an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u61	Mr Bendl, Mr Pilný, followed by Mr Pilný, made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u62	I agree with the proposal put forward by the rapporteur and, in order to simplify the matter, withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u63	Thank you. Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u64	Thank you for the floor. I don't have a problem with that either, but I consider the monitoring interval to be quite unfortunately chosen, because in three months we usually don't know anything about these things, we'll get a huge amount of paper. So if the petitioner insists on those three months, I suggest we vote separately. I would've moved the deadline to six months, because at three months' intervals, nothing really happens, and we're gonna get stacks of paper that I don't know what we're gonna do with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u65	Would you like me to take that as a counterproposition, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u66	Depends on the translator. If the interval extends, I agree. Six months. Just the monitoring.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u67	Mr. Speaker, please, do you agree with this, or will I have to put it to a special vote as a counter-proposal if Mr. Pilný considers it a counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u68	I didn't get the answer to the monitoring interval, so I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u69	It is against Mr Pilný's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u70	If the petitioner insists on this monitoring interval for three months, I am giving the counterproposal to vote separately on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u71	Yes, a proposal for six months instead of three months. Thank you, that's counterproposal. I ask the rapporteur to record. Mr Šidlo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u72	Thank you for the floor. I agree with the rapporteur's proposal, I withdraw my proposal. However, I insist that they remain there for three months, because I think that the quarter is exactly the time that will help to clearly identify the stage of preparation and, above all, the EIA's positions. If we give six months, in three quarters of a year, we'll meet back here, and it'll be basically nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u73	Thank you. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u74	Thank you. I also insist that we vote on this, the six months, as a counterproposal. I'd even give it to the counterproposal's promoter to consider. It's not bullying, and it's about the Minister of Transport. Quarterly. Either we have it as a priority, or we don't. So am I not going to read or do you want to complete the resolution again? [[Voices from the diaper: No.]] So it's just the information part. So please: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to: 1. once every three months, i.e. on a quarterly basis, he submitted a written report to the Chamber of Deputies on the procedure for preparing transport infrastructure structures. /Information should contain information about the EIA, i.e. on the environment, territorial decisions, building permits and property settlement. What condition is it in, whether it's moving or not? 2. To the Minister of Transport. The report will include an overview of the dates submitted for the EIA assessment at the Ministry of the Environment and the opinions already in force. That may even be part of the first point. It's an emphasis on the EIA. How many applications have been submitted, these are two numbers, and how many have been issued, i.e. It'll be in coordination with the Ministry of the Environment. Once a quarter of a year. Two numbers. 3. He's asking for the Minister of Transport. Another part will be an overview of the implementation of these transport projects, which is really one written comprehensive report in a quarter of a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u75	Is that all for now? We are in a detailed debate, so I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u76	I'm sorry, just one sentence. I would ask your rapporteur for a motion for a resolution, Mr Karel Šidl, to explain the third resolution, so that it is clear that we know what we are going to vote on. Mike, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u77	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u78	Thank you for the floor. I'll try. Overview of ensuring the realization of these transport structures. This means a simple thing, because all we have prepared in the previous paragraphs of the resolution is that it is the preparation of the construction, but to implement the construction you need other things such as building permits, land settlement, and you also need financial collateral for investment. And I would like to see at that third point, Minister, when you asked what I was looking for to see these facts. Because we, too, need to uncover one important thing: what's stuck with it? Whether to expose the EIA, whether in the construction law and whether in the Public Procurement Act or that we do not have sufficient financial cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u79	Thank you, rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u80	So it's clear now. So since I've already put the documents in the first point, the EIA, the construction and the property settlement, in the last one, it would only change if there was an overview of the financial collateral of the realization. Financial collateral, that was the only item. So please, if there aren't any more suggestions, with the first date being here in November. I'm just pointing out that all of this data is available to ŘSD and SFDI. So we can vote. Do you want to vote on points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u81	I'm sorry, we can't vote. Excuse me, rapporteur, that's what I'm here for. We will vote after the end of the detailed debate and after the final words. Now the Minister has entered into a detailed debate. The Minister has changed his mind. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. Now, rapporteur, I beg you, we will therefore vote on the motions for resolutions. Please make individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u82	I assume there will be a vote on points. So point number one is going to be--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u83	First, we will vote on Mr Pilný's counter-proposal to change the deadline from three months to six months, if Mr Pilný insists on it. We will then vote on individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u84	If it is possible in this case for the Minister of Transport to say his position on three or six months. Okay. We will vote on the information part, but it will be the last in the vote, but the counterproposal is the information once every six months, the original proposal is once every three months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u85	First, I'm gonna check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on three parts of the resolution. First, however, we will vote on Mr Pilný's counter-proposal, which, in all three parts of the resolution, wants the report referred to in the motion for a resolution to be tabled once every six months, not once every three months. I am opening the vote on Mr Pilný's proposal to change three months to six months. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 201, 98 Members are registered, for 52, against 36. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u86	Thank you. We are going to the opening of the resolution. First item: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies urges the Czech Government, first of all, to submit an amendment to the Construction Act, date of December 2016, date of January 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u87	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 202, registered 100 Members of Parliament, for 88, against 3. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u88	Second: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies strongly asks the Government of the Czech Republic, secondly, to amend Act No. 100/2001 Sb., EIA, submitted to the House. Check date December 2016, date January 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u89	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 203, registered 101 Members of Parliament, for 90, against 2. This proposal has also been adopted. Last part, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u90	The last part - I suppose you'll agree to vote together in the package. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to submit a written report every six months for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the procedure for preparing transport infrastructure structures /EIA, territorial decision, building permit, property settlement/. Secondly, the report will include an overview of the dates submitted for the EIA assessment at the Ministry of the Environment and the opinions already in force. Thirdly, the next part will be an overview of the financial assurance of the implementation of these transport projects. Date November 2016 - this means the first report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-009-258.u91	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 204, 102 Members are registered, for 88, against 3. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I'm done discussing this point. I'm interrupting this meeting. I am ending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm interrupting this meeting until tomorrow morning, when we proceed with paragraph 259, answers to written interpelations.
