ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws /house print 379/ - second reading I ask Minister Dienstbier to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce once again the bill amending the Act on the Ombudsman. As I mentioned at first reading, it is based on the Government's programming statement, where the Government undertakes to strengthen the legal possibilities of protection against discrimination and the Ombudsman's power to propose the abolition of laws for a conflict with constitutional order. The proposal therefore gives the protector two new powers. First, to appeal to the Constitutional Court and then to file a public suit on discrimination. The proposal also introduces less formal and faster ways of doing the protector's work and gives all the entities concerned clear obligations to cooperate with the protector in the performance of his duties. The proposal was the subject of several negotiations of both the Guarantee Constitutional Committee and the Petition Committee. In particular, the two committees addressed both newly proposed powers of the Ombudsman in detail. Those views included all imaginative positions. I want to thank everyone for the debate. The outcome of the discussions of both committees is also the amendments to which I will briefly comment - in a short manner corresponding to the importance of these proposals. Both committees supported the extension of the Ombudsman's powers in the third area, monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is a proposal, as I have also mentioned here, which was originally in the proposal submitted to the Government and, in the meantime, a contradiction concerning the staff strengthening of the Ombudsman's Office has been launched on the Government. Now, therefore, the committees once again propose to supplement this power. According to the Convention, the Czech Republic has an obligation to establish an independent body to monitor its implementation, and in the Czech environment, the mandate of the protector is the best solution because it meets the independence parameters, at least for the time being, and also has the necessary experience and competence for independent and systemic monitoring of the exercise of the rights of persons. The protector will thus be able to actively contribute to better protection and implementation of the rights of people with disabilities in the Czech Republic. I therefore support these committee proposals because they can really improve the position of disabled people and protect their rights. The Constitutional Committee also addressed the two proposed powers, as I mentioned. The result is an amendment which makes it conditional upon the submission of a proposal to the Constitutional Court to abolish the law or part of it by prior discussion of the matter in the petition committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. A dialogue between the protector and the Chamber of Deputies will thus be possible before the Constitutional Court has its own motion. I consider this strengthening of dialogue, which can contribute to resolving the matter without being discussed before the Constitutional Court, to be reasonable. Therefore, I think that this amendment, in this case the constitutionally-legal committee, could also be supported. [[9.50 hours]] Unfortunately, for the second competence, which is a public action on discrimination, the Constitutional Committee supported the proposal to dismiss it. This is, of course, an unfortunate step, because it would not be fulfilled by a government statement that obliges the government to strengthen protection against discrimination. I consider this instrument to be very effective from the point of view of protecting discriminated persons. It should be noted that the means of defence against discrimination, which are individual, in this case very complex, costly, often incomprehensible to people. It should be noted that the victims of discrimination are very often those who have a weaker position in society, sometimes less social competence, and for example. The anti-discrimination lawsuit is one of the most complicated legal issues. This means that the practical availability of protection against discrimination is often very low. We also see this on the real number of actions that are being brought that do not correspond in any way to the statistics on discrimination that we have at our disposal. Among other things, this Ombudsman's competence is recommended at international level by various committees that monitor the protection of rights and against discrimination between the UN and the Council of Europe. I am pleased that the Committee on Petitions, unlike the Constitutional Law Committee, has recommended for the approval of the law, including this part, as it has been submitted. Of course, it is logical to change the effectiveness of the proposal due to delays in the discussion of this proposal here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I would mention one more proposal which addresses a question which is not at all contained in the proposal presented, and that is the possibility of removing the protector from his post by the Chamber of Deputies. According to this proposal, the Chamber of Deputies should be able to dismiss the protector in the event of serious misconduct. This concept is not defined in any way in the proposal and, on the contrary, it is so general that, in principle, the appeal could be justified at any time. This is a question of the independence and impartiality of the performance of the Ombudsman's duties on political power. As much as the protector is elected and to some extent responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, I think that such a proposal would be an unacceptable intervention in independence, as defined for these institutions by international standards. This is what I have mentioned for the time being also in the delegation of the monitoring mechanism for the rights of disabled persons to the Ombudsman, where the UN Convention also assumes such a guarantee of independence, and that is why we are proposing this power to entrust it to the Ombudsman. Here the independence of such a proposal would be fundamentally challenged, and I think that it is actually completely unacceptable to follow such a course. I think that's enough for an introduction. I will, of course, comment on the subsequent debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Petitions. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 379/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u4	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, the constitutional committee dealt with this press at two of its meetings, which took place on 2 September 2015, when it adopted the following recommendations after the debate, which you have sent out in the press 379/3. The Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal. It also recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt these amendments and additions to this bill. Those points are 13 in total, they relate to the completion of exactly what Minister Jiří Dienstbier was talking about. It concerns the addition of the Ombudsman's monitoring of the implementation of an international agreement governing the rights of disabled persons. This also applies in point 2 of the references, in point 3, also by replacing words and numbers. Four is similar. In point 5, it is proposed to be in Section 21 (b). Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, In the first sentence, the words "and the persons to whom specific legislation imposes an obligation on them in matters of equal treatment and protection against discrimination' were added in order to release those words. (?) It also proposes to delete the words "and persons" at the sixth point. At the seventh point, also in a similar spirit. On the eighth point, it is proposed to insert a new paragraph of Section 21c, which relates to the monitoring of the implementation of the international agreement governing the rights of persons with disabilities again. In addition, point 9 is proposed to insert a new paragraph of Section 25a, which obliges the Ombudsmen to carry out the tasks of setting up an advisory body for cooperation in monitoring the implementation of the international treaty and the related provisions. In part ten, it is suggested that part two be released, the others renumbered. On the eleventh point, it is proposed to amend the provisions in the Constitutional Court Act. On the 12th point, it is proposed that the fourth and fifth parts be deleted, and on the 13th point it is proposed to change the effectiveness of the adoption of the law. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee has commissioned the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. Furthermore, fourthly, he authorised me as committee rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law, which I am doing, and the Constitutional Committee authorised me as committee rapporteur to make appropriate legislative and technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and now, please, rapporteur for the petition committee, Mrs Zuzka Rujbrová Rujbr, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u6	Have a good day. As a committee of constitutional law, the Committee on Petitions recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending the Act on the Ombudsman and recommends the adoption of certain amendments. In part, the Minister has already referred to them, partly identical or similar to the recommendation of the Committee on Constitutional Law. I would refer in this to the resolution of the Committee on Petitions from its 22nd meeting of 23 June 2015. Note how some bills, even though they are not MPs, are postponed in the programme. This resolution of the Committee on Petitions is contained in the press 379/1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have my first entry, and that is Mr Soukup. [[Mrs Cernochová objects from the point of view.]] Madame, you have pressed a factual point with which I cannot let you go, because the debate is not running. A factual point is the response to the debate, and if you want to take advantage of the priority right, I cannot give it to you, because Mr Stanjura is not excused from today's meeting. So please sign up for the debate if necessary. I cannot put you in a factual position because the debate is now underway and the response to the debate is factual. Only if you have a procedural proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was customary at the last first reading that Mrs Šabatová was sitting at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and I think we should insist that this be the case today. I find it totally unacceptable that such a fundamental law is changing here, and Mrs. Ombudswoman is not present. How is that possible? How is it that the government and Minister Dienstbier did not secure the presence of the Ombudswoman? I therefore propose that this item be interrupted in the presence of Mrs Šabatová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u9	Yes, it is a procedural proposal, and I must vote on it without debate. Before I do that, I'll call all my colleagues from the lobby, and I'll sign you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. Before I begin the vote, I will just repeat Mrs Černochová's procedural proposal, which proposes a suspension of this point until the Ombudsman's presence. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 336, to which 114 are registered, for 27, against 52. The motion was denied. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u10	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since this was a procedural proposal, I could not comment on it, I will nevertheless do so subsequently. I consider the proposal completely hypocritical. It should be noted that the President of the SAO has also not been summoned to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is not the case with any law where the activities of an institution are discussed. It is a government bill, the Ombudsman, whatever law is passed, he must adopt the legislation, he is not the one who proposed it here, he is the target of the legislation, not its author. I think the proposal was completely unsystemic. And yet I would turn against the fact that the government or I didn't secure the participation of a public defender. It is the Chamber of Deputies, which organises the hearing, and in addition to the fact that there was no reason to ensure the presence of a public defender of rights, it would in any case be a question of the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, and not of the government or of the individual minister making the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u11	Yes, thank you. And now I beg Mr Soukup's microphone, who is the first to be entered in the debate, will be prepared by Mr Pleticha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to say that I agree with the Minister in this case, because we do not regulate the law here for Mrs Šabatová, but we here regulate the law for the Ombudsman as such in general. I am one of those who, for principle reasons, oppose the extension of those several powers to the Ombudsman. I am referring to the opportunity of the Ombudsman to appeal to the Constitutional Court with a request to abolish the alleged contested law and the possibility of bringing public actions for alleged discrimination. In my opinion, such powers are an expression of an individual position and cannot replace the general judicial system. The possibility of turning directly to the Constitutional Court introduced only a few post-communist countries during the transition to democracy for the Ombudsmen. From advanced parliamentary democracies, the Ombudsman has this power in France and Portugal, for example, the Ombudsman does not have it in the cradle of democracy, in the UK, nor the Ombudsman in Sweden, where the Institute was founded in 1802. In the latter and most other developed countries, the Ombudsman relies on the power of his natural authority. And so I think it should be with us. Now, just briefly to the second proposed authority, the possibility of filing damages for anti-discrimination lawsuits. This is basically a rarity, and so did the Minister of Justice, who otherwise supports the entire law, which they introduced, if my information is up to date, perhaps only in Slovakia. I think it's a question of courts, primarily a question of courts. I have prepared and loaded into the system an amendment which eliminates the disputed powers, i.e. the Ombudsman's authorisation to submit proposals to the Constitutional Court and to file anti-discrimination actions. Furthermore, in my amendment, I recommend that the right of the Ombudsman against employers and other private persons be waived from the existing law. The Ombudsman's Institute was set up to protect individuals or groups from authorities and public institutions. The Constitutional Committee included most of my amendments in its recommendation resolution. In one case, the Committee proposed a compromise option. It gives the Ombudsman the opportunity to propose the abolition of the alleged non-constitutional laws after discussion in the PS petition committee - I stress after discussion. This is a fairly acceptable compromise. Nevertheless, in a detailed debate, I will apply to my original amendment, which is somewhat broader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u13	Thank you, Mr Member, and please to Mr Pleticha's microphone, Mrs Adamová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u14	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, it has just come together beautifully, I will follow up on my previous speaker here, but with a slightly different opinion. I think that the anti-discrimination lawsuit should be part of the Ombudswoman's portfolio of powers, of course, or the Ombudsman, in general I am talking about it to the office, but only if it fails to achieve a remedy by using other powers. That is why I have also prepared an amendment which gives this authorisation, but only as the last instance, if it fails to achieve a remedy otherwise. I will then sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u15	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Adamová's microphone, Mrs Hnyková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me once again speak to the Government Bill, which proposes extending the Ombudsman's powers to bring public action in respect of infringement of the right to equal treatment and discrimination and the possibility of proposing to the Constitutional Court the abolition of laws or parts thereof. In the context of a short notice procedure, it has already been expressed against these proposals, for example. Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, President of the Supreme Court and other bodies. In most cases, however, their comments have not been taken into account, and the Government, through Minister Dienstbier, is proposing a proposal which, in essence, the VOP has written almost to itself, and Mrs Šabatová has defended the amendments here and on the committees many times. I have already proposed rejection at first reading. At first, I think that extending the Ombudsman's powers is not necessary. During the first reading and during the committee discussions, colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum opposed the proposed measures. Some only oppose the extension of the institute of public action, others oppose the power to propose the abolition of laws. A number of colleagues considered these approvals to be non-systemic, which violate the principles of division of power and destabilise the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, to which I also lean. [[10.10 hours]] The hearing has been suspended three times in the Chamber of Deputies, it has also been suspended in committees, and more than a year has passed since the beginning of this hearing. However, I do not feel that in that time, more than a year, the shortcomings that we have all spoken about across the political spectrum have been removed. On the contrary, the two committees adopted an amendment extending the Ombudsman's functions or powers by one more, namely the function of a monitoring body for the rights of persons with disabilities, as previous speakers have also mentioned. I would have no problem with this measure. I think that, as a matter of authority, the Ombudsman should have it allocated to him. The Constitutional Committee proposes that before the Ombudsman submits a motion to the Constitutional Court for annulment of the law or part thereof, he informs the Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies. This, of course, is not sufficient, because the fact that the matter will be discussed in committee does not change the fact that the institution, in its own way, subordinate to the Chamber of Deputies, will basically exercise the supervisory function of its superior body. That is why I have uploaded two amendments into the system. One concerns precisely the submission of proposals to the Constitutional Court to repeal the law. The second concerns a public action on discrimination. I understand that someone agrees with one of those powers and doesn't agree with another or vice versa, or has the same attitude towards both of them as I do, so they can disagree with both of them. So I'm giving you a chance to deal with this. I propose that both of these powers be withdrawn from the government's proposal, respectively. is not to allocate to the Ombudsman. Of course, I will also apply to my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Hnyk, and please get to Mrs. Hnyková's microphone. Mrs Maxová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. I would like to introduce to you the amendment that my colleague Olga Havlová put into the system, but she was ill, even though she came today, but she doesn't feel well enough, so I will allow myself to present it to you. The aim of these amendments is to extend the scope of the Ombudsman's controls to the application of Sharia law. Whether we want it or not, the influx of illegal immigrants into Europe from Islamic countries carries this risk. The impulse for our proposal was to present Mrs Šabatová here in the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the report on the Ombudsman's activities in December last year. My colleague Marek Černoch opened the topic when the Ombudsman criticized conditions in Czech detention facilities. It is true that the workers of these detention facilities treated illegal immigrants more than professionally. I was there myself, and I saw the conditions of immigrants and the conditions of our police officers. Secondly, Mrs Šabatová has publicly said that she refuses to deal with the Koran because - and now I quote Mrs Šabatová: "This is not my legal task." Mrs. Ombudswoman deals with the forgiveness of every little thing. We read it in the daily press, and sometimes the citizens of our country are shaking their minds about what else they can think of. But this fundamental violation of human rights in force in the Czech Republic is not willing to admit it. In our view, it is possible for the Ombudsman to address the issue of oppression as a result of the application of religious legal systems already under the current wording of the law. However, if Mrs Šabatová does not feel obliged to do so, we must order her to do so by law, otherwise it is impossible. The Ombudsman carries out the control of human rights under the law where persons restricted to freedom are located. There are primarily prisons and - and this is essential - facilities for securing foreigners and shelter centres for asylum seekers. Here is the highest risk of controlling religious intolerance. [[spread?]] There is evidence of reports in these facilities in Germany, I believe you have read them in the press. Another thing we want to impose on the Ombudsman is for the evaluation of asylum facilities to take account of the current migration situation. In the event of a crisis, it cannot be achieved for objective reasons that the prescribed standards, for example, relating to the occupancy of rooms, will always be fulfilled throughout their scope. According to our amendment, in its assessment, the Ombudsman must take into account the objective situation and cannot criticize asylum facilities head-on, regardless of the fact that there may be a rapid immigration crisis. The result should be that the next time Mrs Šabatová goes to a detention facility, she won't comment on whether illegals have soft enough mattresses, but she will also investigate whether Sharia's rights are being exercised in these facilities. The fact that these facilities for illegal immigrants have these religious problems is more than obvious. Let's look at the news from Germany. Here Christians, Kurd, and Yazids in German camps are increasingly attacked by Muslim refugees because of faith. There is also the penetration of Islamist radicals and the strengthening of the Salafist movement in Germany. According to the president of the German police unions Rainer Wendt, targeted and well-awaited violent conflicts due to ethnic or religious affiliations occur almost daily in Germany. And I don't believe that Mrs. Šabatová will protect us from this. But she needs to face it. We are offering her a helping hand with this amendment. We make it clear to all doubters about Sharia's law: the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights has said that Sharia's law is incompatible with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, because of its rules of criminal law, the refusal of equality between men and women and interference in private and public life under religious rules. Yes, Sharia is unacceptable in the territory of the Czech Republic, and anything that will at least protect us from it must be supported. Thank you for your attention. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs. Maxová's microphone. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I would like to explain the basis of my amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate on enlargement -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u21	Madam, I'm sorry. I'm gonna ask my colleagues on the left, I don't want to name them, so they don't yell out loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u22	- which basically expands the possibilities of the Ombudsman's or the Ombudsman's appeal. The Act on the Ombudsman recognises two forms of termination of the duties of the Ombudsman, either by termination of office or by removal from office. The termination of the function occurs ex lege, i.e. by law, the day following the day on which the law foresaw the fact. As regards the potential appeal of the Ombudsman, it should be noted that, under current legislation, the protector is almost irrevocable. It may be called off only in two cases, provided that it carries out an activity which is contrary and incompatible with its function or is a member of a political party or movement. Therefore, no provision of the law remembers a situation where, for example, a protector could not perform his duties because of ill health. Similarly, the law has passed away the possibility of withdrawing the protector in the event that he has committed serious misconduct in the performance of his duties, which means that he is guilty of breach of the duty of the protector or acts which threatens trust in the function of protector, or reduces the seriousness of that function. I must state, and it has already been mentioned here, that the proper performance of the Ombudsman's office is a so-called solution to complaints at the meetings of the various authorities. This function will in no way be threatened by this possibility of extending the appeal, as I am also opposed by the Minister. [[10.20 hours]] The possibility of appeal for health reasons and for serious misconduct is not included in the present paragraph 3 concerning the appeal of the protector, where the claim is that it must be withdrawn but is amended in a completely new paragraph. The reason for this is that, contrary to paragraph 3, according to which the Chamber of Deputies is obliged, as I have already mentioned, to withdraw the guardian's legal conditions from his office, for incompatibility or for being a member of a political party, and in the new paragraph which is inserted by my amendment, this will depend on the discretion of the Chamber of Deputies whether or not they will take such a step at all, and a majority of Members present are needed. The proposal also reflects, of course, the appeal of the European Ombudsman and is inspired by other foreign amendments such as the Slovak regulation. It is true that I have studied materials on the appeal of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman in other countries. In Sweden, for example, Parliament is entitled to waive the position of an Ombudsman who has lost Parliament's trust. The laws of France and Belgium allow the Ombudsman to be removed from office for serious misconduct, respectively. for serious reasons. I must say that I am being told what a serious error is. However, I must admit that this is a common concept in our legal system, in essence it is also a common concept in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, when in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. 21 on page 21, the possibility is essentially an appeal, an early termination of office, and it is written that the Conference of Presidents may propose to Parliament that he withdraw from the office of President, Vice-President, Quaestor, Chairman and Vice-President of the Committee, Chairman and Vice-President of the Inter-Committee delegation or any other official elected in Parliament if the Member concerned has committed serious misconduct. In our legal standards, serious misconduct is mentioned in Law No. 26/2000 Coll., on Public Auctions, in Government Decree No. 302/2014 Coll., on the Catalogue of Administrative Activities, in the Communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 111/2009, the Act on Public Procurement - of course, the older 1999/1994 Coll., the Official Communication of the Czech National Bank, the Constitutional Court Award 84/1999 etc., I could continue. So I would just like to say that I am still being challenged, of course, that this could be contrary to the principles of Paris, by the Minister. I have to assure him that there is no way, because basically, representatives of the UN, states of intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations agreed on the principles of Paris. Paris' principles do not contain specific legal obligations, but they are a document of the soft law type, that is to say a document containing only moral and political obligations, of which the requirements in Paris' principles for national human rights institutions, which we in our Republic can apply to the Ombudsman, even if it is not an official human rights institution, are, for example: a broad mandate based on universal human rights standards, the independence of the institution set out in the text of the constitutional law, or possibly. Law, independence from government, plurality of groups represented in that body, appropriate investigative powers and sufficient financial resources. Therefore, I must say that independence according to the principles of Paris means, in particular, the establishment of a national human rights institution, the Ombudsman with us, by law, which we have, and institutional independence, that means independence in the establishment of a function, which we have, and the independence of funding resources, which we also have. So the Ombudsman's independence from executives, that is, the power of executives, is determined by the legal anchoring of his status in the text of the law. This is important for the clear and indisputable definition of the Ombudsman's mission, particularly tasks and competences, and for the creation of a framework for his activities. That adjustment is a guarantee for the relative independence of the whole institution. It is thus ensured that any change in government will not have a direct effect on the Ombudsman's activities. It is clear that changes in the structure or powers of an institution established by law are not entirely excluded, but the approval of a parliamentary majority is needed. On the other hand, entities whose legal framework is provided for under the law, such as government regulations or ministerial decrees, are subject to executives and are quite dependent on political changes in their composition. So independence is not compromised. From the point of view of the principles of Paris, financial independence also plays an important role, which, of course, our Republic also fulfils, because the budget of such an institution should not be part of another institution, and, of course, for us, a separate chapter of the state budget is a separate chapter for the funding of the Ombudsman's Office, so we are also not at risk of independence. And the idea that, following the adoption of this amendment, which extends the possibilities of the appeal of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, his independence would be threatened is certainly not a problem with the Chamber of Deputies. I could call it absurd. It would deny the sense and substance of the entire institution of the Ombudsman, which is to act to protect a person from the actions of the authorities and other institutions, thereby basically contributing to the protection of the rights and freedoms of our citizens. What I would like to say is that the Ombudsman is completely independent of the executive power. It can be said that it shows considerable independence also from the power of the judicial court, which represents, for example, its immunity enshrined in Section 7, when it cannot be prosecuted in principle without the consent of the Chamber of Deputies. The independence of the Ombudsman is also given to the legislative power. However, absolute independence from legislative power will not be achieved in my opinion, as Parliament of the Czech Republic adopts the law, adopted the law on the Ombudsman, adopted the amendments and the Chamber of Deputies elects the protector, if any. It only withdraws at present when it violates the two conditions, and the protector is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies for the performance of his duties, he should account for us and inform us regularly about his activities. If I were to conclude my speech, I would like to say that my amendment, I think, will rather contribute to improving the functioning of the whole institution. If the Chamber of Deputies, as a representative of the people, is allowed to withdraw the Ombudsman, who has committed serious misconduct, and I reiterate that this is a common legal concept in our law, a serious error, and it is in fact a gross violation of its obligations, the proper exercise of the activities under the authority of the Ombudsman will be ensured, as a new Ombudsman will be elected, thereby not compromising citizens' confidence in this institution. And the last one. I really think that an amendment extending the possibility of the appeal of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman will contribute to greater responsibility for the Ombudsman's work in the performance of his duties, as so far the Ombudsman has been essentially irrevocable, even if he has repeatedly committed serious misconduct in his work. I will, of course, sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u23	I thank you, Madame, and please to Mr Karamazov's microphone, Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I find it hard to look for an understanding of the law of the Human Rights Minister's workshop, equal opportunities and legislation. Rather, it amazes me that with a proposal that brings many problems, the government also identifies itself. Many may find the discussion of this law unnecessary, but the opposite is true. New legislation doesn't introduce anything less than the fourth power in the state. If we have yet to talk about the power of legislative, executive and judicial, the fourth centre is now to become the Ombudsman. He would newly obtain the right to demand the Constitutional Court to abolish the contested laws. [[10.30 hours]] Here, the purpose for which the office was established is so perfectly overturned. If the original idea of the institution was to defend the rights of citizens, it is now in the hands of a powerful weapon. The approved legislation can now be broken by the Ombudsman at any time. A man who can decide according to his own preferences without a wider discussion. It is hard to take seriously the argument that the Ombudsman would only use this device exceptionally. The use of this instrument would be solely within the competence of the Ombudsman. The way and frequency of reaching for this device would obviously change according to who would be the Ombudsman. However, the rule of law is intended to offer permanence and consistency. It must not be changed according to the will and ideology of one person. The second extension of powers, namely the possibility of filing an anti-discrimination lawsuit, is totally against the meaning of the Ombudsman's institution. Thus, the Ombudsman could bring an action before the court whenever he alone considers that any citizen's conduct is discriminatory and - I quote - "is threatening public interest or to affect a greater number of persons'. This definition is obviously very general and vague. Thus, virtually anyone who dislikes or criticizes the official ideology of the Ombudsman can be judged. I believe that it should always remain for an entity whose right has been violated to seek legal protection on its own. The opposite principle is contrary to the individual's freedom. As much as we wouldn't like it if someone else was picking a car for us, they shouldn't be suing for us or anyone else. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that the Ombudsman's office is always carried out by a specific person. In the case of Anna Šabatová, we can see that the Ombudswoman raises conflicts rather than seeking a friendly path. An example may be provocation, during which the authorized person did not hesitate to pass off as a fake interested in renting an apartment. Then we saw a public lynch real estate agent who was merely interpreting the interest of her clients, property owners. The new powers of the Ombudswoman would probably also turn against the principal of the high school, who forbade girls to wear hijabs during teaching. While now Šabatová's director can "just attract the media," she would now have a chance to sue. We must also realise that the Ombudsman is being paid out of all of our money. In this sense, the proposed amendment is not accurate either in terms of expected financial claims. Specifically, it can be read in the explanatory memorandum that the proposal will have no negative effects on the state budget. Such a claim is fundamentally false. It is most obvious that there will be an increase in the Office's agenda. Other and other funds will be used newly on an army of high-quality lawyers to ensure that the lawsuits are successful. The defendant would then be dragged around the courts for years, and the defense would have to pay from its own resources. Let me remind you that in many cases of discriminatory actions, the burden of proof rests on the defendant, not on the plaintiff. The Ombudsman could thus bully anyone who doesn't share his view of the world. The new power will not contribute to the eradication of discriminatory behaviour. It is already possible for a discriminated person to turn to the court. It is obvious that the law would only create confusion in the legislative process. The Ombudsman is to protect persons from the actions of the authorities and other institutions, if this is contrary to the law, it does not correspond to the principles of democratic rule of law and good governance, as the authorities are inactive. Let us not allow the Ombudsman's office itself to become an institution from which the citizen must be protected. Thank you for your attention, and I suggest we reject the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next to the microphone, please, and that's Mr. Benda. Before it occurs, allow me to load the apology of Mr Zlatuška, who apologizes for today's negotiations from 10.30 for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u26	Madam Vice-President, Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said here at second reading. I am surprised that the government brings such a bill at all and considers it necessary to deal with such unnecessary things today. Maybe I'll start with a little bit more context. I will then come to the proposals that I have, in addition to saying that the only proposal for which I would vote in the amendment to the Ombudsman's Office is to abolish and save the money that is being spent on it. A little bit in a broader context. Europe has gone crazy. Europe has gone crazy. We have a war on the eastern border, a war on the southern border, and we're still playing the expansion and expansion of rights here. The only thing this House has ever done is endlessly discuss an hour-long discussion about where we will stop smoking everywhere, where we will ban alcohol, and possibly the incredible spread of anti-discrimination lawsuits and other ideas that lead only to the fact that there is no normal living in European countries anymore. All minorities think that they can take advantage of most of everything, and yet we are unable to defend ourselves with the real dangers that threaten us in the world. And unfortunately, the Minister of Human Rights is in this and continues happily, because the cultural Marxism, which is now based in Straka Academy and unfortunately in the Office of the Ombudsman in Brno, is the right panacea to address the issues of the world. I don't think so. I think cultural Marxism is a tragedy and a disaster. And if we continue this way, then let's not be surprised that someone will devour us. Whether it's east or south. Many objections have been raised about this particular proposal, which has already been discussed to some extent. Nevertheless, the original idea of the Ombudsman was that it was an institution to map the functioning of the state administration for Parliament, to improve, where appropriate, where the government does not work, and to give Parliament information on where it could improve something in the administration, or where Parliament could change the laws, because they seem to be not entirely satisfactory for individual rights. Experiments that repeatedly come from the Ombudsman's office - and I always reject it, regardless of whether Mrs Šabatová is sitting there or not. I also objected to all her predecessors. The experiments that, of course, come from within the office say: No, no, no, we do not just want to advise Parliament. We do not just want to draw Parliament's attention to where there are problems. We think we know better than the people. We think we know better than Parliament. And he won't listen to us. He doesn't want to hear us. He forgets that there are some oppressed people here, and sometimes he thinks about the majority and refuses to retreat to minorities at all costs. So we would like to bypass Parliament in some way - and how best to do this than through the courts. We will not go to Parliament. We're not gonna say this and change this, but we're gonna go straight to the courts and say, oh, here's some poor guy that the rich, powerful, homeowners, employers, innkeepers, devils are terrorizing. They're mean to him. They prevent him from exercising all of his rights that he imagines. And we'd love to sue them. Then we'll sue them. And we'll sue them in administrative courts or in municipal courts or in the Constitutional Court. - Those are the ideas that are still being brought here. It is based on the fact that the Office of Ombudsmen, who have ever appeared in the world, which is based in Brno, thinks that Parliament is not listening enough to it, and that is why it needs to be bypassed. [[10.40 hours]] I think that's a very wrong strategy. In addition, in the Czech Republic and this is always forgotten to add. In this respect, the Czech Republic has almost the most extensive protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, which can even be invented in European world relations. Not only does every court guard rights and freedoms, but every citizen has the right to turn to the Constitutional Court not only with an individual complaint to review his case and decide in his particular case, but also with a proposal that if the law is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the relevant part of the law should be abolished. And now I will look away from the fact that, of course, we still have a call to the European courts in Strasbourg. Now all I'm gonna talk about is the Czech rule of law. Every citizen has this right, has the right to claim the annulment of the law if he proves that the application of the law was contrary to his fundamental rights and freedoms and that his specific rights were damaged in that case. This power is very unusual in European relations. Very unusual. It was based on the fact that we wrote the Charter here, they wrote the Constitutional Court Act very shortly after 1989, when we had experience with the Communist regime, they had experience that calling their rights and freedoms was almost impossible, and that is why we said we would let every citizen be fully protected by the institutions of the constitutional judiciary. Those examples that Brno or Strakov Academy bring us here by the mouth of the Minister of Human Rights and Equal Opportunities are examples from countries where such powers are not, where the Ombudsman collects individual actions, individual objections from citizens, and if he considers that there are enough, then possibly he will file a complaint. It's not like that here. Every citizen here has the right to turn around and every citizen has the right to demand. And in the end, he can come to the Constitutional Court. That's why I think it's completely wrong to expand the Ombudsman's powers. I agree with what the Constitutional Legal Committee did, I just think that it was inadequate, because she, which was in the original draft law, turned to the Constitutional Court, was, as if changed and moderated, but in my opinion, inadequately. When you read the new text of Part Three proposed in the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which says that the Ombudsman has the right to refer to the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, if he finds, in exercising his powers, violations of fundamental rights and freedoms of persons and, after discussing the matter in the Chamber of Deputies Committee, it is as if he had just entered into a hearing in the Committee on Petitions. If the petition committee had agreed, I would still be able to understand that it was some sort of correction, that it was something after all, that at least it had to go to the House and get the House's authority to say yes. After discussing the petition committee, I find it practically ridiculous. That is only by coming there, I will say to them: I have decided to sue you, dear Parliament, because no one else in this country approves of the laws other than Parliament, to sue you, and so I am only telling you, so it will be 14 days or a month longer than the proposal comes, but it does not mean that the Ombudsman's office in this regard is limited in any way. This discussion seems completely inadequate to me, and I will therefore propose in a detailed debate that, in addition to what has already been approved in the committees, we release the entire third part after the amendment made by the Constitutional Committee, because it seems to me that it will only be discussed in the Committee on Petitions, as an inadequate correction of the dangers that I have tried to talk about here in the previous talk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u27	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with priority rights, Mr Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, honourable colleagues, allow me also to make a few comments as part of the second reading of the Act on the Ombudsman. The intention to amend Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, is not explicitly contained in the coalition agreement concluded between the ČSSD, the ANO 2011 movement and the KDU-ČSL movement for the parliamentary period 2013 to 2017. It can therefore be concluded that the requested changes are not essential for the coalition parties for the duration of mutual cooperation. According to the original concept of the Ombudsman, as defined in § 1 para. The Ombudsman is an institution serving to protect persons from acts contrary to the law or principles of good governance or democratic rule of law. However, since 2005, there have been several enlargements of the ombudsman's powers in connection with European Union law, from the protection of people from bad administration to the general protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. According to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, the Ombudsman was thus given the opportunity to visit places where persons are confined to personal freedom, the function of equality points associated with methodological research assistance to enforce the right to equal treatment and the possibility of monitoring the execution of expulsion and forced return. The above-mentioned extension of the ombudsman's competence has been the subject of a technical debate in recent years, in which, on the one hand, there is emphasis on the concentration of protection of human rights with protection from bad administration and, on the other, on the original mission of the Ombudsman as an informal institution and on the risk of duplication of the activities of certain institutions in the constitutional system, in particular the Constitutional Court. The proposal contains two major changes which extend the scope of the Ombudsman. The first is the possibility of the Ombudsman filing a motion for annulment of the law before the Constitutional Court and the second right to bring an action in the public interest in discriminatory matters. However, the new ombudsman's power of competence seems to be a problematic change, establishing his ability to make proposals for the abolition of the law to the Constitutional Court, especially in the context of the increasing number of derogation findings of the Constitutional Court. This trend is described by the professional public as the judicialisation of policy. The division of power in the state is based on a system of brakes and equilibrium, which is very important to take care of in any interaction with relevant entities. The Constitutional Court is therefore limited in the winding-up proceedings to the extent that it cannot initiate proceedings of its own volition, but only on the basis of a proposal from another body, in the case of a specific case of a general court applying the constitutional complainant's legislation in question, in whose fundamental rights it has been affected and which has exhausted appeals, or a political actor, regardless of the specific case in the form of a president, a group of 41 Members or 17 senators. Regardless of the specific case, a highly qualified entity is therefore required to submit a bill for annulment, which corresponds to the setting of the brake system and the equilibrium. However, the Ombudsman would not be limited in the application for annulment of the law de facto and its limitation by linking to a particular case would miss its effect in a situation where it can start its activity on the basis of its own investigation, and the submission of the complaint to the Ombudsman is not formalised. The Ombudsman's power to make proposals to abolish the law can therefore be regarded as a distortion of balance in favour of a democratically legitimized Parliament. The law-making process requires a positive opinion from a parliamentary majority representing the majority in the state. The abolition of the will of such a majority, the law, is therefore an act in which considerable emphasis should be placed on maintaining balance in the mutual relations of relevant entities. The question is also the need to include the Ombudsman among the bodies with the possibility of filing a bill for annulment. The Ombudsman is already reporting his activities to the Chamber of Deputies, which also sends them to the Senate and the President of the Republic. These bodies already have the possibility, under the current regulation, to file a motion for annulment of the law before the Constitutional Court. Article III.12 of the Programme Declaration of the Government of the Czech Republic states that - I quote: "The Government will strengthen the legal possibilities of defence against discrimination and the Ombudsman's power to propose the abolition of anti-constitutional laws." Thus, using the grammar and semantic method, it can be concluded that the Government has set itself the objective of strengthening the Ombudsman's power to propose the abolition of laws. I would see such reinforcement, for example, in the compulsory incorporation of information on the laws that the Ombudsman finds unconstitutional in his work, in his annual reports to the Chamber of Deputies. Such a solution would meet the requirement of the Government's programming declaration, which does not require the Ombudsman to submit proposals directly to the Constitutional Court, while not disturbing the democratic principles of the state. The original concept of the Ombudsman's activities dealing with the activities of the state administration would also be investigated. [[10.50 hours]] Another important change brought by the amendment to the Act on the Ombudsman is the right of the Ombudsman to bring an action in the public interest in discriminatory matters. Under the current legislation, the Ombudsman already has a so-called special plea for the protection of the public interest in proceedings for action against an administrative authority's decision if there is evidence of a serious public interest in its submission. [[Very loud noise in the whole room.]] Such power corresponds to the concept of a Ombudsman as a body protecting against violations of the law and the principle of good governance by public authorities. The Ombudsman would be entitled to bring an action in civil proceedings if the infringement of the right to equal treatment or discrimination could affect a greater or indefinite number -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u29	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt, but the noise in the House is great again, so I... I've already listened to my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u30	- I am coming to an end, don't worry - or discrimination may have affected a greater number of people or an indefinite number of people, or if they could be seriously threatened by public interest. This change also distances the Ombudsman from the institution protecting persons from violations of the law and the principle of good governance by public authorities. An alternative list of these two conditions offers the Ombudsman considerable scope to apply this competence. The issue is the extension of the possibility of involving a public body in private relations in the area of infringement of the right to equal treatment or discrimination, in particular with regard to the specific adjustment of the burden of proof in the framework of anti-discrimination disputes. For the reasons set out above, it is clear that I have a major problem with further strengthening the Ombudsman's powers, and many of my colleagues in the KDU-ČSL also have it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u31	Thank you. I note here the factual remark of Mr Borka, if that is the case? It's not. Now, with priority rights, the Minister, and I'm just going to ask him to be brief, because at 10.55 I'm going to have to interrupt for organizational reasons for a moment of meeting, because we're expecting the President's arrival. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try this very briefly, although much has been said in this debate. Again, I would point out that there is a commitment in the Government Declaration to entrust the Ombudsman with the possibility of turning to the Constitutional Court with the abolition of laws. I really consider certain ecvibristism with the words I recorded here a moment ago to be very original. Likewise, the government has committed itself to strengthening protection against discrimination. Yes, there is another way. We can entrust the possibility of bringing anti-discrimination actions to legal persons who have protection against discrimination as an object of activity. I suppose it would cause real enthusiasm here in the House if the government went this way. Some comments about the division of power. There's no fourth power in the state. Unfortunately, or luckily, it is not working today that there are three clearly defined powers in the state. There are a number of independent institutions that share this classic division of power... that deviate from it. And that doesn't mean, of course, that the division of power would be denied as a fundamental principle. What Mrs Hnyková has announced here, with Sharia's right. That, when I say politely, is smiling, because if you look at the provisions where this is to be added, there is talk of the goal of strengthening the protection of people from torture, cruel inhumane humiliation or punishment and other bad treatment. From the point of view of legislative technology, the legal system of what the Member has announced here is not torture, it is not cruel inhumane demeaning treatment or punishment and other mistreatment. I suppose that is exactly what the Member's proposal wanted to say. One last point, because time is pushing me, concerns the principles of Paris and the independence of the Ombudsman. Paris' principles are really so-called soft law in themselves. However, they are actually a universally recognised standard of classification of the independence of institutions of this type, which become a hard right in interpreting international treaties at UN level or Council of Europe, and I insist that the revised proposal for any appeal of the Ombudsman is a violation of these principles and we would be subjected to very harsh criticism at UN and Council of Europe level if we went this way. And I think that the current regulation guarantees independence from absolutely exactly one side and, in those precisely defined and clearly defined reasons, allows the Ombudsman to withdraw. But only in those cases, and not at any time anyone remembers that he just disliked himself because he was doing the activity too independently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u33	I thank you, Minister, and at this time for a few minutes I am interrupting the House's meeting and interrupting this point. Otherwise, I'm gonna ask my colleagues not to leave the O.R. because we're gonna be welcoming the President in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-004-018.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to inform you that in a few moments our meeting hall will be visited by the President of the Republic, Mr Miloš Zeman. [[There are fanfares, Members are getting up and the President of the Republic is entering the hall. Members of the TOP 09 are not present in the hall with the exception of former member of the TOP 09 Member Turek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic, Mr Miloš Zeman, among us. [[Let's hear it for the whole room.]] And now we're going to focus on the point.
