ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-005-158.u1	158. Government bill on central accounting / House printing 718/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš take the position at the rapporteur's table and appointed rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Roman Kubíček. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 718/6, which was delivered on 31 May 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 718/7. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it. Mr Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-005-158.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, both the point that you have approved now and the point that you will most certainly approve at the moment are among the points that TOP 09 has included in the so-called. a list of non-freedoms, where we draw up the most risky legislative proposals that this government has put forward and which, in any case, restricts and threatens individual freedom of citizens. We often get the question which of the 16 points we consider to be the most socially dangerous, and we answer that it is not so much a question of the order of the hazard as it is too much. That it's too much and that it's in a short period of time. It is always justified by some noble reason, but it always has one thing to do: take away a piece of his personal freedom from a citizen, or gain him much more under the control of state power. Whether it's a breach of home freedom, whether it's a censorship of the Internet, whether it's a question of an incredible number of registers, where the state's authority finds out everything about a citizen, including his intimate diseases. In the course of two and a half years of very decent economic growth, which happened to her, which did not cause her, missed the opportunity, or rather did not find the political courage to make the necessary reforms necessary for a prosperous future, whether in the fields of science, education, public insurance. There, all she could do was cancel what had been approved before without replacing any reasonable systemic measures from her own workshop. There's a huge deficit there, you could say it's a waste of time. But she is obsessed, obsessed with collecting data from her citizens, who are already so many, that I am sure as a long-time civil servant and politician, that it simply is not in the capacity of the state to process the data in an effective way for better governance of the country, but that they will serve one thing: The moment it comes in handy, discuss the incredible amount of all data and let the citizen know that we know so much about it that he should rather keep his mouth and step. And this consciousness, given the historical experience of older generations, is already in itself reducing the degree of freedom in society and inducing ubiquitous fears and fears. [[10.20 hours]] I was - I was surprised that we weren't all there - but I was like one of the party chairmen at the Chamber of Commerce meeting, where I had the opportunity to talk to businessmen and tell them that I lacked a bit of their voice in public space to limit their freedom. And then, after the speeches, many came to me and thanked me for saying it, and they said, you know, we're afraid to say it, we'd get a checkup tomorrow. They'd be checked tomorrow based on the data that's now available. But it's going to be four times as many. And I wanted to ask you if you all realized that. Because many of you can easily be victims of this state approach to citizens, when it is no longer service to your citizens, but when it is superior to your subjects. And many of you who applaud it today and raise your hands for it can be the future victim of this regime, for the dog differs from the wolf only by the collar on which it is hanged, as we know from history. Colleagues, please come to your senses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-005-158.u3	Thank you. It's 10:20. As has been advertised, at this point the TOP 09 club takes ten minutes' break until 10:30 and at 10:30 we follow directly by the election of the chairman of the commission of inquiry. Then we will continue to discuss this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-005-158.u4	Good morning. A pause has passed at the meeting of the TOP 09 and the Mayors, and we will continue with the firmly placed point, which is
