ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended /German press 304/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that, after waiting a little longer, I can finally present to you at second reading a draft law amending the law on criminal liability of legal persons. You know that this is a text that has raised quite a larger debate, particularly in the constitutional committee and here also, however much it is a matter that would rather be in a detailed debate, because it is an amendment, so I think that it needs to be addressed immediately in the introductory words, confessing, if the amendment is adopted, a significant extension. Originally, the proposal concerned a relatively simple matter, and that is to replace the existing list of offences for which a legal person may be responsible, actually by the opposite principle, when it is said that a legal person may be responsible for all the offences with exceptions mentioned on the contrary, i.e. in a negative one. In the constitutional committee, an objection was made not to this fact, which seemed not problematic, but more generally to the law on criminal liability of legal persons and, in particular, to the considerable severity of this law as regards when the unlawful conduct is attributed to the legal person and, therefore, where it can be affected for him. This then eventually led to a supplement, or an amendment to which the substance of the law is being supplemented precisely to mitigate this original rigor, and there I agree that the rigor was excessive, so that a legal person can evolve if he proves that he has made all the necessary or reasonable efforts to prevent this crime. In a nutshell. I believe that the proposal tabled is necessary for our country. First, it responds to the demands of some international regulations or rules and, secondly, responds to modern trends, because legal entities play an increasingly strong role in our society, thus increasing the need for their regulation, including the regulation of criminal law. At the same time, I also support the tendency to make the principle of addition fairer. I think about everything at the beginning. I will therefore ask you to support this proposal, and more, if necessary, in the debate, in particular the detailed one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. 5 days. 11. At the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Economic Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore propose that we designate the constitutional committee as a guarantee committee for this bill. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? This is not the case, so we will vote. I'm signing you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal for a constitutional committee to appoint a guarantee committee for this bill. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 199. 91 Members and Members are registered, for 89, against none. I am of the opinion that the Constitutional Committee has been designated by the Guarantee Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints 304/1 to 304/4. I would now like the rapporteur to take the floor now with Mrs Marie Benešová, a guarantee constitutional committee and to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u4	Good afternoon, colleagues. I would therefore read the resolution, now the Guarantee Committee of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the 48th meeting of 25 November 2015. As Minister Pelikán has sent, we have finally reached a consensus after a year, which, on the one hand, meets the requirements of the European Union, and also meets our specific needs and, on the other hand, the approval of the Minister of Justice has been granted. So the Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt these amendments and additions to this bill. First, in Article one in point 2, the words of slander, Section 184 of the Criminal Code, are deleted in Section 7. Second, in Article 1 (2) the words of an infringement of the rules on competition under Section 248 (2) are inserted after the words of abuse of a person living in a common dwelling in Section 7 after the words of abuse of a person living in a common dwelling. 2 of the Criminal Code. Third - in Article 1, points 3 to 6 are inserted after point 2 - in Section 8, the words on its behalf or deleted. Fourthly, in § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the words in the management capacity of a legal person shall be inserted after the word of the person. Fifth - in § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the words shall be replaced by the words of the person in charge of the legal person who. [[15.40 hours]] Sixthly, the following paragraph 5 is added to Section 8: "A lawyer shall be released from criminal liability pursuant to paragraphs 1 to 4 if he has made all the efforts that could reasonably be required to prevent the commission of an offence by the persons referred to in paragraph 1.' The following points are numbered. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law at the session of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which I am doing, and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies Office. So much for the decision of the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I ask now that Mr František Laudát, Mr František Laudát, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and also make possible amendments and justify them. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee dealt with the draft law at its meeting and adopted the following resolution: Economic Committee of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of First Deputy Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, report by Mr František Laudát and general debate 1. Recommends that the draft law No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended, was discussed with business associations and associations. 2. It recommends that the existing bill be maintained and clarified, possibly supplementing the existing list of offences. 3. It proposes to return the bill to recast in accordance with points 1 and 2. On that last resolution, i.e. a motion for a re-evaluation, I have received the opinion of the legislation that it cannot be done in this way that it is possible to propose a re-evaluation only in the first reading. So I, for my part, now to be an equivalent, because, in this form, the majority of Members who voted in favour of the resolution do not share the view that this amendment is well prepared, so I propose rejecting it at third reading. I therefore suggest that I comply with the objection, but it is not on behalf of the Economic Committee, but on my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Válková is the first to report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u8	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am pleased to be able to comment once again on the proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Criminal Liability of Legal Persons. It was still in existence when I was in the position of Minister of Justice. At that time, she called for my successor, Minister of Justice Pelikán, to confirm a pretty big fuss that, in fact, the negative list turned positive in the sense that the legal person was responsible for all the crimes that a natural person might commit, except those expressly mentioned. It is understandable that we were counting on a large debate to take place, and we were also prepared for the Justice Department to meet legitimate objections that there would be great and partly due to the quality of the activities of certain law enforcement authorities in specific cases, perhaps too strict criminalisation of the negotiations that are moving on the edge. The social harmfulness according to § 12 para. 2 of the Criminal Code requires a certain highly qualified assessment, which will not always be evaluated in this way. So, after the negotiations that took place, there was a compromise where there was an amendment that the rapporteur was talking about. The Minister, of course, also drew attention to him. Once again, from the position of someone who is responsible for this amendment, I want to confirm that if we accept this amendment with an amendment, we do not have to worry about over-criminating legal persons, because if they prove that they have made all the efforts that can be demanded fairly, they will not be held accountable for the conduct for which they could otherwise be held liable. It is understandable that I can answer any objections here. Of course, this will require that law enforcement authorities be sufficiently familiarized, trained, so that it is clear that the legislator's intention is not to criminalise those who, by their actions, are not moving beyond the threshold of criminal law, but a consistent penalty for all the negotiations that have just created the atmosphere which, unfortunately, still prevails in the Czech society that some legal persons are doing with impunity in the area of particularly serious economic crime, for which natural persons would have long been subject to detention, condemned and executed unconditional penalties. Of course, a legal person can never exercise those, but by being abolished, it is basically a death penalty for her. Which I don't want to say is that it should always end with this last penalty measure. I just wanted to point out, for your comfort, that by discussing the amendment by the Constitutional Legal Committee, we have also given ourselves enough space in the debate to clarify some of the concepts and to present the text that you now have in the best possible form, so I think we can raise our hand with a calm conscience for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u9	Thank you, Madame Válková. Another duly registered member is Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u10	Thank you. So I would do this, or it will be understood, I have no right to propose something that has not been passed by the Economic Committee, so that is where the new Rules of Procedure have taken place, which we have not yet somehow spent, so I propose that we reject it at third reading in order to vote on it. As far as the law is concerned, I am sorry, but as much as anything is relevant here, praise is given to these laws and other standards that you are asserting here, from the Law Professor who previously voted around the electronic record of sales here, as she voted, in a clear violation of the law, which is also the Rules of Procedure, so first of all. Secondly, I really want to call you seriously at third reading to start thinking about what policy you're doing, because you're really creating hell for the business sector here. No countries in the world, when you put everything together, or in the European Union you put all kinds of standards, all kinds of spying together, responsibilities, draconian sanctions, no one makes such a brutal attack on entrepreneurs who create values that employ citizens is the biggest source of revenue from the state budget. So when it comes to the global scale, they have one of the greatest social meanings and necessity, and you attack them, what the law, it's just threats, punishment, crime and so on, and in the debate, she's already been in the House for an expensive time, so on the Economic Committee, so I don't remember all the arguments, but the fact that we're simply expanding the circle of these crimes can be abused in competition and other things. [[15.50 hours]] I beg you, say enough. None of your standards are practically working. You're covering it up, hiding behind economic growth. Tomorrow it will end and the deeper crisis will break out after you can't hide with your waste of economic growth. I really urge you to consider whether you have advocated these and other standards, which you approve here as on the running belt, in this way. You're really a threat - it's worth it to everyone to sign up and go somewhere else. And that's an irreversible loss. We already have huge leaks and departures of companies abroad, whether it concerns registration because of the fact that the state, and it is the Ministry of Minister Pelikán - is not able to guarantee the inviolability of property. The courts look what they look like. So please work on what needs to be fixed. You build a state where you want people to be afraid. We want to stand where people won't be afraid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-005-010.u11	I thank Mr Laudát. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteurs. Thank you. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I ask again about the final words of the Minister and, if necessary, the rapporteur. I do not register a bill under the law for a renegotiation in the guarantee committee or for a shortening of the deadline, so I end the second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur, the Minister, the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
