ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 590/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, let me briefly present, as part of the second reading, a government bill amending the law on promoting sport. This is a law submitted in accordance with the Government's programming declaration. Its main elements are the strategic management of sport support, the central level of the definition of content areas of support for sport in the field of grant policy and the setting of a certain strategic management in the area of state, regions and municipalities. All these conceptual documents are intended to be directed towards multi-source funding in the field of sport. In addition, support for the sport of children and young people or successful representatives or investment support is highlighted. The purpose is to increase transparency in the financing of sport. In addition, the establishment of a register of sports organisations and athletes is proposed. It is also proposed to improve the adjustment of major sporting events of particular importance in terms of the requirement for public finances and the organisational and security requirements for the organisation of such events. If I am to comment on the amendments that result from the resolution of the guarantee committee, I am merely calling upon, following the debate in the first reading, to agree to delete the provisions governing the National Council for Sport, not because it is not established, but because there is no need for legal regulation to do so. It is also a technical modification of the provisions on the register of sports organisations and sportsmen. I note here that these are adjustments that have requested consultations with the Office for Personal Data Protection, but we have the opinion that the register is completely in order by the Office for Personal Data Protection in this area. Furthermore, amendments to terminology and adjustments to transitional provisions. The Ministry of Education agrees with these amendments from the Guarantee Committee. With regard to Mr Andrl Sylor's amendment, the approval of the Ministry of Education can be expected to include the definition of the means necessary to support the areas of priorities and measures that each plan will define. Furthermore, I would like to update the support for Mr Ploc's amendment, which deals with the regulation of the register and, following the debate in the first reading, extends it to the register of sports infrastructure and also specifies that only those who apply for public funds administered by the State are part of the register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 590/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Holeček, inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u4	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, after discussing this amendment on 15. 12. As a guarantee committee, we discussed the draft amendment of the Act on 4. 2. on the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. A number of issues have been raised during this discussion, which we have been discussing for a long time, and we have decided to interrupt this discussion. On this basis, we discussed this amendment one more time on the 17th day. 2. when, in conclusion, we adopted the following resolution after a detailed discussion. Resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 23rd Meeting of 17 February 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws, print 590. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, after the reasons of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, Jiří Holeček's intelligence report and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws, press 590, as amended by these amendments - which the Minister also briefly referred to. These amendments change some legislative technical points in the law, and there are also major changes, such as the identification of a fundamental priority in the field of sport, which this law should give priority to the sport of children, youth and their trainers, and also to support not sports organisations as a whole, but, above all, sports representatives of the Czech Republic, then there are a number of other minor adjustments, such as the already mentioned National Council, which comes from the competence law and is established, and there is no reason to inflate our legal order with such other provisions. II. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - I believe he did so. III. He instructs the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Jiří Holeček to present this resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. IV. In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee's rapporteurs are hereby instructed to make legislative technical adjustments accordingly. - Yes, that's what happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have the priority right of Mr Stanjura's application, Mrs Putnová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will not repeat everything I said at first reading, just to justify my amendment. I would like to add a little ironic appreciation to the Minister that she has already agreed to the amendment by a colleague, Mr Ploc, which has been loaded into the system today. That's unprecedented speed. Mine was also loaded today, so maybe you could also comment on when it's actually one minute loaded, second minute read. It gives me some suspicion that the amendment was made at the Ministry of Education, but why not. It wouldn't be the first time or the last time, and there's nothing wrong with it, that's what I'd like to say. A general remark first. I talk about it quite often from this place. I think the government coalition - the term may be tough, but I think it's appropriate - is obsessed with making registers. I'm just going to try a few examples that we've already approved or discussed here, or what individual members of the government are up to. Electronic records of sales, in which we spent quite a long enough debate, online records of each sales. Central bank account register - we are discussing in the Chamber of Deputies. According to news from the press, the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a register of passive infrastructure where it wants to register not only public and public networks but also private. The register of contracts - we've already approved it. Now, thanks to the Department of Agriculture, we may be able to dismantle it a little bit. Let's see what the majority leans towards. A register of admissions of public officials. The fourth one I'm talking about. This is what we are discussing in such a closely monitored bill as the conflict of interest law, and the whole debate about who might be the controlling person in companies should not overshadow the efforts to create another central register. The Central Criminal Register has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. To keep the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in line, I think it's already up to the government, the register of replacements. In the Gambling Act -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u7	I am very sorry to interrupt, but there is a noise, quite high, especially from the left side of the hall, so I will ask colleagues and colleagues if they have something to say to each other to do so in the lobby and not disturb you. Sorry about the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u8	Because the left part of the hall loves registers, so maybe they're talking to each other about how good it is that we have so many registers. I'm the one who would tolerate them, even though I have the opposite opinion. I will return to the bill on gambling - the register of players. Two weeks ago, we discussed the medical registry, or the patient registry, or the diagnosis. And now we have a register of athletes, clubs and coaches. Let's see what the ministers can think of. That means, in about two and a half years it's about 11 central registers, when the government is constantly gathering information about us, about our associations, about whether we play, go to doctors, we're doctors - teachers' registers I shouldn't forget. Madam Secretary would be upset if I didn't mention such an important register. So I think we have to say, "Enough!" That's it! Besides bringing money to buy, money to run, there's a threat of misuse of the data. And nowhere in the bill has I learned why a register of athletes is to be created. I really don't know. So my colleagues and I looked at the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, for example, and I think that this is something we should respect, and we will find that I do. We are guaranteed the right to freely associate in associations, which are undoubtedly sports clubs, and the exercise of this right can only be limited by law, only in exceptional cases. And here it is under the guise of the fact that the Ministry of Education wants to check whether the subsidy is effectively used. I think the Ministry already has enough effective tools to do that. If not, then we need to replace those who have it in their work force. Exactly the same - and that would be screaming from the left side of the spectrum if we said we should introduce a trade union register! Wouldn't it be interesting for employers to know how many employees there are in the union? Still there when he's got a bunch of union groups? Why don't we want that? I'm not suggesting we understand each other, that's good, but it also has the character of a frat. And how far is it from the sports registry to the religious registry, when the state finances churches, gives wages, and still spends about 13 years on clergy wages? I think he's dangerously close and that we just have to reject the ideas as a whole. Although the Minister here at first reading said how athletes actually understand it and how they welcome it, I would say from the media outputs that it is not entirely true that athletes would welcome a register of athletes, but perhaps someone else always says so. I'd like to hear from the Minister why we want this. What good is a sports registry? And what's the difference between the other associations and the next time another member of the government comes up with a similarly good idea to create a new register? The other things I criticised at first reading have not been incorporated into the amendments in any way. My amendment is House Document No 3977, there is also a brief written justification, in principle identical to what I am saying. That means, I propose that the bill remove all points relating to the creation of a register. When the vote is taken, Mr rapporteur, please vote together on this, the three points are substantively linked, i.e. either we accept them as a whole or you reject them as a whole. I would like to urge you not to restrict the organisation's activities so that you leave the state outside the gates of the associations, which are certainly also sports clubs. I think, and I think that's a great reservation that even the communists didn't keep such a record of athletes. And that they led the records to us! But even they didn't step up to create a sports registry. So kind government, enough of these registers, instead of disturbing them and simplifying them. I mean, you can enter into the terms of the grant program that somebody will give you an athlete's record if you're so interested. You don't need the law for that, that's a pretty simple thing to do. And if you then carry out a check and you find that someone has not correctly identified the corresponding number of athletes, it is without doubt a violation of the rules of the grant title, it is certainly a reason for the subsidy to be refunded, reduced or measured by any penalty or other penalty. Look at the bill. In addition to the fact that I think there is a senseless register of athletes, there are also new offences. And pretty high penalties for that. And then there are such absurdities of the type, and so it is also in the resolution of the guarantee committee that, for example. The date of death will also be taken from the Central Register to the athletes' registry. I find it really incredible, such an additional and unnecessary concentration of data. I hear from this microphone at first and at this reading that we want to stabilise or improve the financing of sport. That's the goal on which I think we're either all or almost all in agreement. At the same time, however, the same government takes hundreds of millions of dollars in the proposal to tax gambling for athletes. I have a specific question for the Minister whether or not she supported the bill in the government. And if she supported him, maybe she abstained or opposed, she proposed by her vote to remove CZK 600 million from the athletes. I say for myself, although it does not have anything to do with us being prepared, we as a club, and we will support the amendment by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, who proposes to preserve this money for sport. He even suggests that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports administer. I personally and my colleagues and my colleagues consider this to be a good amendment that deserves the support of the Chamber of Deputies, but I am sorry that the Minister has not passed it on to the government and that she has let the Government pass a bill that should have cost the athletes 600 million Czech crowns for each calendar year that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u9	Thank you. Now, I beg you, Mr Opálka, with Mr Opálka in fact, then with the Prime Minister's priority right. [[The secretary stepped up to the microphone.]] Hold on, Madam Secretary. A fact note takes precedence over you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u10	I'm sorry. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to add, through your help, to my colleague Stanjur, that these trade union employers have an overview. They even have an overview of how much they pay because they, through their accounting company, make a deduction in the tax return and the correct tax in the regime, which allows them to use our Personal Income Tax Act. So it's just an amendment. Nothing to do with what was otherwise said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u11	Thank you. Two more factual points. First to the microphone of Mr Votava, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, when a colleague of Stanjura, by your means, scolds the government for the registers of contracts, registers in general and has appointed a register of contracts - but the register of contracts is not from a government workshop. I didn't support him, because I believe that the way he was approved, there are many pitfalls, and it will certainly manifest itself over time. You obviously raised your hand for him. So that sounds pretty incorrect to me from you. Otherwise, of course, I am very pleased that you support President Hamáček's proposal regarding money, lottery levies for sport through the Ministry of Education. That's what I think is a very good achievement, and I have to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u13	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone. Also a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u14	I will respond to both previous speakers. It may be a pity, but Mr Votava is not yet a member of the government, which means, as you rightly said, I blamed the government, not the government. But it almost doesn't matter. And I stand by my vote for all the laws and I'm not ashamed of him. And Mr Opálek through the Vice-President. You're right about that. All we have to do is remove the deductible item from the Income Tax Act, and it's unnecessary to burden those companies. And if that deductible item isn't there, the companies won't know how much the union members pay. However, I want to say that by law - by law - the employer is not entitled to that, how do you do it this way... Because someone can file a confession on their own, they can apply it once a year without the employer knowing. I was talking about the legal authority of employers to know how many of his employees are union members. I wouldn't support it. I'm just saying the situation is similar. And I'm afraid that other good ideas, since there are so many registers, will then be poor ministers who don't have a register, and they will certainly want to try in that competition to see who comes up with a better proposal, and there will be a register waiting for us in that year and a half of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u15	Thank you. And now the de facto remark made by Mr Pojezný. Mr Brázdil will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In short, I would respond to my colleague Stanjura, who said that the sport should lose some 600 million crowns. I don't think that's true at all. Here is the difference, who will put the 600 million crowns into sport, whether the Czech Olympic Committee and the strange ways no one will get to the basic articles, or the minimum funding. If you looked for example at the billing from 2014, only 10 percent came into the basic articles of sport from these finances, out of the 440 million crowns. And if the Ministry of Education distributes it, it's only good because it creates a system, it'll have a register, and it'll know where it's sending it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u17	Thank you. Mr Brázdil's microphone, please, and Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u18	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my colleague Stanjura (!). If I compare standing with family, I'm the boss of the family as a father, so maybe even a mother and we have kids. And here I would dare you, Mr. Stanjur, to be my child.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u19	Through me, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u20	I didn't want to go into that much detail. Your way. [[New entertainment in the hall.]] As a father, let's say as a government, I would definitely like to have a system, I would like to have some sort of order. You, Mr. Stanjur, as a child, I understand that you would like to have chaos in this, you wouldn't want to have boundaries. It's just a normal thing. If there's anything you want... Can you imagine Switzerland being a mess? The mess is given by some kind of system, some kind of rule setup. The rules haven't been here in years. And you're wondering now that this government wants to set the rules and the system? Well, he's being responsible. I don't know, I hope I didn't say anything, something stupid. Just a normal logical approach. And I didn't want to touch you with that kid. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u21	I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. [[Room fuss.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u22	Mr colleague, through Madam President, I say yes to the two questions you have asked. You insulted me and said something stupid. But okay. Stanjura bows down. And when I talk to someone, at least learn to bow. I'm sorry, but it bothers me. But I'm surprised you're not sitting there. [[It points to the left side of the hall.]] The state is no family. Family is completely different. You're in the right-wing movement you claim, so you're there by mistake, or you're not the right-wing movement. How can you say that the state is a family? That's absolutely unbelievable! I beg the state to keep order in our families, in our societies, between athletes and everywhere else! Of course, it's wrong for the Treasury to split money into sports. He doesn't have it in gestures at all. I made it clear that we would support the proposal for the money to end up in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because under the law of competence, it is also the Ministry of Sport. I know you're saying this because your chairman, to be correct in the political dictionary, your chairman is the finance minister. But it doesn't make any sense. I know he wants to decide every crown. But we just don't have that kind of Treasury here. And next time you do some examples, pick someone from your club and please leave me out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u23	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe that you who say you want the order don't understand the difference. We all want that order. But the order, among other things, is that the associations keep their own registrations. And if there's a subsidy mechanism that's based largely on the number of members that the organization gets, then let it stand its control mechanisms through the registration systems of individual unions, let it punish, let it fine, let it arrest for me someone for my grant fraud if it's a grant fraud. But the solution isn't that the state will run the register itself for the athletes. Where does it end? Then the state will run our home accounting for us, so we don't overestimate ourselves? That's the problem. The problem is that I will limit freedom to individuals or associations only if it is absolutely necessary. And it's really not necessary here, if we leave the eternal stalking philosophy of the cop registers, which, I'm sorry, you're introducing into every sector of human activity. It just doesn't belong here. Let them register the associations themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u25	Thank you and please to the microphone with the priority right of the Minister, then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u26	Allow me to explain a few things. Firstly, as far as Mr Ploc's amendment is concerned, it is not that he has had protection from me, unlike Mr Stanjura, but I have responded in my introductory words to the debate at first reading. And since the register has been discussed repeatedly, I have amended my consent to this amendment because the content of this amendment has been discussed on subcommittees, the Committee of Education and also on the National Sports Council. And there's a match to the sports environment. There has been a clarification of what the data are, which means that the data of sports organisations are being used, and that it is actually being clarified, even if it was there in my opinion, but it is clarified that only those who apply for public funds from the subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports are part of this register. [[15.20 hours]] Then I would just like to respond to Mr Stanjura, who here compared the state's interest in the number of athletes to the fact that someone would be snooping, as in the case of subsidies, after who takes what reward for working in the case of trade unionists, for example. I believe that even Mr Stanjura understands the difference. We really do not have a legal right to the subsidy, while there is no doubt that there is a reward for the work. As far as the treatment of public funds is concerned, it is entirely legitimate for the State to have an idea of how it is handled by public funds. So it cannot be compared to any intention of the state that it lacks union records. From the point of view of union records, there is no counterweight, there are no public funds. And if you were referring to the reward for work - through the President, I apologize - then, of course, this is a matter of employee relations. So please don't confuse the target group in this way. In view of the fact that we can come out of the data we have at the Ministry, I just want to say that what we have in the law is just the rules of that, so we can process the data. You are right through the President that a number of these data may be required by the Ministry, but very limited precisely because the Ministry does not have a legal basis. That means this is the legal basis for us to process the data. I have already mentioned that the register is non-public and in terms of the Civil Service Act it is sufficient to ensure that data are not misused. The sport environment was secured by agreement and agreement in the regulation of the register, discussed and supported the content of Mr Ploc's amendment to the National Sports Council. And now, as far as Mr Hamáček and his amendment are concerned. Here, of course, through the President, thanks again for the recognition of this amendment, because it has been recommended to my proposal by the Coalition Council and with the support of the legislation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. And as for what I did or didn't do when discussing the government's Lottery Bill. Of course, I fought for the money from the letters. That is why, following this, a coalition agreement was reached and a government of 500 million. CZK, which is the amount of last year's signature, has moved into budget heading numbers 2016 so that the sports environment does not lose these funds. So I believe that, of course, we will have a debate on the maintenance of signatures, but even if they cannot be maintained, I will, of course, respect the continuity of the use of these funds in the following financial year. I also announced publicly that we will be announcing three-year grant schemes from autumn onwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u27	Thank you and please, in fact, to Mr Stanjura's microphone, then Mr Holeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u28	Madam Secretary, I have a request. Don't put something in my mouth that I didn't say, and don't sneak up on me. I wasn't talking about union rewards. Not a second! This is what Mr Opálka said that the employer can find out from the levy if he pays through the employer and uses tax relief. I really don't. I really don't care, so don't mess with it. However, you're an experienced lawyer, and you said a sentence that I totally agree with. There is no right to grant. Then you're wrong that you need a legal basis for what you might want from those participating in the grant title. You don't need a legal claim. You can say, I need you to do this, this, this, and any candidate can consider whether they will go to the public funding competition under the conditions that the subsidy provider will write out or not, because you're right, he doesn't have the right to do it, everyone doesn't have to get it. And if, for example, someone doesn't want to mention the number of athletes, it's his legitimate decision and he won't ask. You don't need any legal authority to do that. I have signed many applications for grant titles in various European or national programmes. There were a lot of things that the provider wanted us to do, and it almost never had a legal basis, and it always mattered to us, if we accept it, we fill in what they want us to do, and we participate in the competition, or we say: we're going to get too much data, we're not going to take part in the competition. So don't say here that in order for you to, for example, want the number of members in the sports club, you need a legal basis. You don't need to, because you don't have to write a grant title out of any law and nobody has to report. It's that simple. I know you want to keep tabs on everything that's going on in the state, and I'm asking why. What good is that to you? You don't need it! That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u29	Thank you and now with Mr Holeček in fact, then with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna respond to what my colleague Stanjura said. It criticizes the introduction of a register of athletes, coaches and perhaps even sports sites, which we don't even have in this novel yet, and offers no other solutions. That means he's actually defending the current state of affairs as it is. The current state - in the democratic establishment we have since 1989, funds are distributed from the state budget to the Ministry of Education and then into sports unions or various roofing organizations without the Ministry knowing where the athletes are, whether there are more volleyball players or basketball players, who now know whether there are more children, youth, or adults organized there. Nobody knows. So it's not just to keep track. That's so some government sports policy can be fulfilled. When it is said that we support sports children and young people who are less athletic today, they are obese often, they suffer from diabetes and do not compete for various reasons, especially financial reasons, because, according to the SANEP survey, up to 20 percent of children today cannot play sports in sports clubs because their families do not have the funds to do so. I don't know which one of you knows how much it costs today, but I believe that many of you know how much sport costs at the club today. It's not a cheap thing. So the register is needed precisely to know where the children and youth are and to direct the funds there, where the invisible hand of the market is failing. And it's failing. And it fails because after the revolution, the ČSTV broke up, which had 180 people only at headquarters, plus it had regional and regional organisations, which is why we need those registers, Mr. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time.]] [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u31	Thank you, and with priority rights, please, to the Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u32	I just have one really short supplement. The law is written in such a way and refined in the system, read by Mr Ploc's amendment, that only those who want state resources from the subsidy funds of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will submit information on athletes under the conditions of the subsidy. And I'm just trying to explain that today, if it is not in the law, we are not able to collect such data from the point of view of personal data protection, and there are specific controls towards the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because the only thing we can collect is the name and surname, and we all know that, of course, the name and surname also from the point of view of control, which the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports would carry out systematically in the territory, we will not, of course, take into account whether it is really the person that has been banished. That's all. And because the membership base in grant programs is quite important, and because we want to have fair terms for subsidies like we have fair conditions on the sports field, that's all. It's not Big Brother. And I know that this was a sensitive question for the sports environment, which is why we discussed this a lot and I argue that on the basis of adjustments and refinement - and I thank all Members for the debate at first reading and now - all of these comments have improved our record and we really tried not to be a brother watching athletes, but that would be support. So it's just an assurance on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u33	Thank you, and now with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u34	Madam Vice-President, I just can't comment on this because the proposal was loaded today, if we understand each other. That is, I have become familiar with the resolution of the guarantee committee, as a Member here on other committees. That's what I responded to in my performance. I have noticed that the Member has read the amendment today, but you can't ask me to say yes today, you're right, but we'll see. I just insist you do it without the law. You've done it so far. But most of all, we're pretending that they're all crooks. Here we go again: I'll check to see if he has a black soul. And they all want to cheat us, and they want to take unauthorized money. It's just not like that. I think that individual sports associations keep records of how many clubs they have, how many athletes they have in clubs, etc. And here we are creating something in the state, something else. And again, they're all dirty suspects, and they have to evolve. That's the principle I don't like. They're all suspects, and they're gonna evolve, and we're gonna collect data, and then we're gonna check it out. I will look at the amendment to see if there is also an obligation to update it once I submit it. Because there was an obligation to update when someone terminated their operations in the squad, they would transfer from one village club to another. How long? Or do we just put the data at the time of the application and the day after that it doesn't matter? And the day after that, the whole team will move on, but the ministry will already have that he has twenty young football players. Which time will be decisive? Is there a pointless update falling under the amendment or does it not look? I'm really gonna read it into the third reading. That will be at the next meeting and we will continue the debate as part of the third reading, because it bothered me, too, the constant update. Because even if I take it - the most popular sport football, there transfers in lower competitions are quite common. And then no one gets caught for not having five more players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u35	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. I thank you, and please take a factual approach to Mr. Pojezný's microphone. Allow me to take advantage of this moment before the counter comes, to read Mr Karel Tureček's apologies - without giving any reason for today's meeting. And his apology has been cancelled by Mr Ladislav Šincl since 14.30 today. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u36	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I'll show you what it looks like, if we don't have a record and the subsidies don't go directly to the athlete. I will introduce the 440 million that the Czech Olympic Committee has redistributed. So the Czech Olympic Committee mostly redistributed to unions, 10 percent of the total amount he kept. What did the unions do with it? 61 percent kept the event for uncle for years to come and 39 percent used for various projects. Beware - but which formed themselves these unions. Only from this amount 33 percent goes to the basic articles. And what about some of the unions? For the sake of clarity, as some sports associations have redistributed it. So for example. The Czech Union of Modern Five-Battles, which was one of the more generous - 24 percent gave the basic articles. Czech Association of Cycling - 13 %, Czech Association of Handball - 0 %, Czech Florbal Union - 0 %, Czech Auto Club - 0 %, Czech Figure Skating Association - 0 %, Gymnastic Federation - 1 %. Of course, gambling money does not receive all sports through the Czech Olympic Committee, but only selected ones, which will be selected by the Czech Olympic Committee. It is not possible for sport to be financed in this way, but it is necessary for it to be managed from one center, and the register will also help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u37	I thank you and, in fact, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Mr. Holeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u38	For the last time. So what? Those unions are made up of individual divisions. If they agree to do so, we respect that. That's one step ahead of us in the budget committee to decide and do the smart ones that say it, which one gives it. For me, the Czech Olympic Committee is not a suspicious organization. They're not people I suspect of doing anything wrong, and that somehow they're weirdly dividing the money. Very often we hear top athletes representing us. And it's true. Which one of you at City Hall or elsewhere likes to be photographed and accepted by successful athletes? And where money comes from, for example. Sports representation? To attend our athletes at the Olympics? Who's in charge? The Czech Olympic Committee. So don't make them suspicious. Those of you who talk about it, they've broken it up weirdly. They gave him zero percent, they gave him thirteen, he gave him twenty. But the unions are made up of those troops. Why do you think you or we know better than unions how to divide money? We have adopted the law here and said that from soft gambling, which are bets, very often for sports matches, or exclusively for sports matches, or lottery, part will go to the Czech Olympic Committee, which will distribute money. I voted for the law. There's nothing wrong with that. I made it clear that if the authority goes to the Ministry of Education, it's okay. We don't have a problem with that. But don't make that kind of talk around here, that's suspicious how they split it. Did they have the authority to do that? We did. Are we going to trust that he understands that? We will. And if one of the members doesn't like how their union works, they are certainly able to arrange for the union's leadership to be replaced, or others to come there, or split the money differently. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u39	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Holeček, in fact. Mr. Chalupa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u40	Thank you for the floor. Just a short technical question - associations and clubs. The first was clubs. The clubs then agreed to... fabulous Sparta - Slavia, soccer team agreed to organize competitions. They wanted to play with foreign clubs somewhere else, so they agreed to put some money together. They formed a union. So it's not that the union is the one who should be distributing money to the clubs. The clubs originally financed their union. So right, the money should go to clubs, and they should tell each other how much money can be spent on organizing national, international competitions. To referees, to education, etc. Clubs should determine that. It's completely backwards. It's crazy tonight. State money gets the unions and they split it up for the clubs. That's crooked, that's wrong, that's backwards. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u41	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Chalupa, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I agree with what Mr. Holeček said here. It's understandable. I have two kids who go to school. Nine-year-old boy, 14-year-old girl, sports. I know what it looks like with money in sports. Looks bad. The sports unions really took advantage of it. If they had competence and they didn't succeed, the powers will now change and the money will be distributed more fairly. We're all gonna be talking about security this afternoon. The physical fitness of the population is also linked to safety. So if this solution contributes to the fact that money goes to children, not just to the Olympics that I value, however, the population is made up of not a few selected Olympics, but hundreds of thousands of children who need physical fitness and need them by this state, I am only for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u43	Thank you. Those were factual remarks at the moment. I would now like to see Mrs Putnová's microphone entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u44	Good afternoon. Madam President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, when we supported this amendment at first reading, it was because we wanted to allow an open debate on the financing of sport. We wanted to open a debate on transparency and the management of sport activities. In its introductory words, the Minister said that this amendment is in line with the priorities of the programming declaration. It should be noted that the programming declaration envisaged a new law on sport. So what we have today is a torso of what we expected the government to present during this parliamentary term. I know it's not a trivial thing to make a new law on sports. However, I believe that by creating novels, we are in a situation where we are dealing with minor adjustments rather than dealing with a real system. [[15.40 hours]] I have been thinking about whether we will be involved in improving this proposal by making amendments and finally rejecting it for myself. There were at least two reasons. Firstly, when I looked at the success of our amendments in the university law and the school law, it is a little frustrating to prepare something that we can almost certainly say will come across the barrier of coalition Members. However, I would still be able to swallow this bitterness, but I have doubts as to whether it is important to support and improve something that we are not convinced should be improved. I do not believe that such a robust system as sport can be improved by small steps. We are talking today about whether registration can improve sports financing or not. But we haven't talked about funding sports yet. We didn't lay down the rules on funding. All we want is evidence. We don't talk about rules. I have not noticed that we would ask for a professional, amateur sport to be separated, to set criteria for financing individual types of sport, so that it is not only based on a number of sports children or people, but to take into account the social benefits, the demands of sport, etc. I say this knowing that it is very important for TOP 09 that we pay great attention to sports activities, especially amateur sports activities and children's sports. Since 2011, I've been trying to push through what's been in the media shortcut as the third gym class. The point is that we want to increase the time for children to engage in mobility activities within the school. Because it is through the school that children whose parents do not play sports, or they cannot afford to engage in sports activities for financial reasons. The third hour was also meant to change the concept of physical education. That it would not only increase the volume of minutes during which children would have physical training, but that it would mean that one hour of physical education would be devoted to general development, as we know it today, and in the next two hours it would be possible for the school, for example, to unite from first to fifth grade and that the children would be divided in a similar way to normal physical unity, depending on the types of sport. It was the involvement of athletes, coaches, who have the necessary accreditation. A verification pilot project is currently underway. So I still have hope that it's not an idea that fits in. I think we play no less than the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. If we don't have a reasonably healthy population, what else do you want to create, what else do you want to prepare for young people, what do you want to offer them? I hope this does not turn out the same way as our theme for healthy nutrition for children, which was taken up by the former Minister Chládek. We were happy about it. It didn't turn out quite happy, because our intention was to educate, aim for parents of children, especially mothers who decide what is eating in the family, and end up caricature of what we wanted, a post-mortem decree that prohibits food and sweets in schools. I mean, I'm very embarrassed about this novel, and if we're talking about changing the rules of funding, it's a big mistake. We haven't talked about the rules for funding yet. This does not mean that we will not support meaningful amendments in third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Madame. Before we go any further, I'll read the notes that arrived. Today, for family reasons, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes for the whole day, and Mr Jakubčík apologises within 16 hours for working reasons. We will continue with the debate. Next up is Mr. Hovorka. Mr. Pojezný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I have read the bill repeatedly, and I have kept looking for an answer to the question of how the greater transparency is given in the distribution of funds for sport and what will actually result in the funds being spent economically. I then studied the SAO's audit conclusion 1404 State funds for general sporting activities. The purpose of the audit was to spend funds during the years 2011 to 2013. I recommend that all Members study this audit conclusion, as there are possible answers to the question of how the allocation of funds to sport should be changed. Specifically, there is talk of cases where a subsidy programme was written, for example, of 300 miles. After the applications were submitted, this programme was increased to CZK 800 million, and without a retroactive assessment, the amounts were distributed. The amounts allocated to applicants who did not apply for such an amount or twice as much as those applied for were distributed. Projects were even paid, which were not implemented at all, 4.5 million. she got an organization that didn't even play sports. It's a really crappy reading. And that leads me to one conclusion. If something is to change in the financing of sport, access to the Ministry of Education must change. I don't think that's gonna solve the rap sheet. There may be a register of applicants for subsidies, there may be one example that has been asked by an organisation that does not deal with sport and organisation of sport, it may be resolved that it may not be necessary to pay subsidies for the wages of workers of the organization or rents, as was the case with the Fed Cup and Davis Cup, but I think that basically it is about increasing control where money is distributed. This is the main objective that should be achieved. But this bill, I think, by introducing a new register, doesn't actually solve anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line is Mr. Pojezný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first let me respond to the report of the Supreme Audit Office. Unfortunately, this inspection from 2011 to 2013 has turned out so pathetic that it clearly states that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has failed as a guarantor in the field of sport. It has not been able to set any measurable targets, it has not been able to redistribute funds so that they even reach the final objective, i.e. for the sport of children and youth. That is why I was extremely pleased at the first reading of the rapporteur's statement by Mr Jiří Holeček that the sport of children and youth should go to the future of the full 30 percent of the amount of funding that will go to sport. This will then be redistributed by the Ministry of Education, Youth. It is therefore quite understandable that it is necessary to increase the emphasis on strategic management of sport, efficiency and, of course, transparency of financial support. In the end, this is also the aim of the amendment of the law, as the Minister said last time. However, it is also important that, contrary to the past, financing is long-term, with certainty for the future of each basic article and, above all, direct funding. [[15.50 hours]] I personally support the distribution of funds into sports systematically from one place to another, without any intermediaries. In my opinion, funding sport is not the task of any organization, or of the CUS, or of such important authority as the Czech Olympic Committee is, but this task must be clearly handled by the Ministry itself. In the end, this famous record of sports organizations and athletes is also used for this. It is interesting that despite the opposition of some colleagues here in the House, especially colleagues from the right side of me, they welcomed the register, and this is the most important for me, individual sports teams, individual clubs. Moreover, thanks to this and this information, the Ministry of Education will enable the register to monitor statistical data in the development of the number of members, but also many others. Thanks to them, he will be able to target his grant titles in different directions. It will mainly benefit by contributing directly and effectively to the distribution of subsidies to the final beneficiary. The previous approach in previous years, I can say at 26 years of age, has created completely unequal conditions, especially a corrupt environment. For this reason, too, there has been no proper financing of the basic articles of sport, especially the sections of children and youth. And that's what it's all about in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u49	I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister and the rapporteur for the final vote. [[Rapporteur: No. - No.]] It's not like that. Given that no proposal has been made, I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I enter three applications into a detailed debate, the first is Mr Andrle, followed by Mr Ploc and Mr Holeček. Mr Andrle will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment, and I would like to make a general statement. The original draft of this amendment states that municipalities and regions are obliged to make a plan for the development of sport every year, but there is no financial basis for this. That is why I have focused on this, and this amendment is an addition to this. Well, I'll read it now. I want to sign up for the amendment under the number of House document 3893. In Article 1, in the present paragraph, paragraph 19 of Section 6a para. 3 is new: "The plan for the development of sport in a municipality or region includes, in particular, the definition of areas of support for sport, the setting of priorities in individual areas of support for sport and measures to ensure the availability of sports facilities for citizens, municipalities or regions'. And new: "The plan also includes the allocation of funds from the budget of the municipality or region that are necessary to implement the plan." The Government's bill proposes that the sport plan issued at national level should include not only clear definitions of State policy objectives in the field of sport, but also determine the means necessary to achieve those objectives. This legislation should not only ensure that the promotion of sport is clearly targeted, but also that it is clear how much funding is needed to achieve the objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u51	Thank you. Mr Ploc is here now and Mr Holeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sign up for the amendment to that system under number 3974. The reasons can be found in writing in this system where it is classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u53	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Holík, I cancel Mr Holečka's note from today. And now, in a detailed debate, Mr Holeček will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, sport, as we could have seen in the discussion in the general debate, is a very neglected area. The invisible hand of the market is failing here, we have 20 percent of children who can't play sports in sports clubs for financial reasons. We are distributing funds in a non-discriminatory way here. When we try transparently, we divide them blindly, because we don't even know how many athletes in a given sport we have in what age category. After the revolutionary period, the ČSTV fell apart. The organisation of sport was entrusted to the Ministry of Education by law of competence. In the last ten years, just to remind you, twelve ministers have been replaced or replaced at the post of Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. So it's less than a year as minister in this ministry. I have experienced - this does not concern present-day Minister Valachová - but I have experienced ministers of education who either did not pursue sport at all or did not pursue it in their own way and had no interest in directing the money where the invisible hand of the market has just failed. That is why I think that sport deserves a new institutional body of state administration, and I would like to read the motion for an accompanying resolution on the amendment to the Sport Support Act. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on the amendment to Act 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, aware of the importance of sport as an activity supporting the physical and mental development of man, taking into account the tradition of sport in the Czech countries and the importance of sport in creating social belonging, in recognition of the importance of recreational and peak sport within the Czech society, as well as the impact of sports representation on creating the image of the Czech Republic in the world, asks the Government of the Czech Republic to deal with the new institutional model of organisation of sport within the state administration. It recommends to the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure all the necessary conditions and conditions for the establishment of a central body of state administration for sport with a separate budget chapter - Ministry of Sport of the Czech Republic." Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u55	Thank you. Mr Adamec is making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u56	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I can't do it, so I have to ask. I really don't understand. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Holeček, what he meant about the invisible hand of the market in the financing of sport. I mean, that makes me a dumbass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-003-017.u57	Thank you, too. I do not see anyone else reporting for a detailed debate. If that is the case, then I am done with the detailed debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur whether you want to take the final word for the end of the second reading. It's not like that. Since no other proposal has been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you both to the Minister and to the rapporteur. As was agreed during the approval of the programme, and by 16.30 at the latest, the agenda was scheduled to be attended by the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis. Since all previous points have been discussed, I am currently opening the point which is
