ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u1	163. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/ - third reading There's going to be an exchange at the newsstand. I beg the peace of the House! I'll take a break if you need to. Thank you. This is House Press 501, and we took our seats at the rapporteur's table, Richard Brabec and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on the Environment, Mr Robin Böhnisch. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 501/4, which was delivered to you on 27 May this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 501/5. I ask the Minister as a plaintiff if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. So I am opening up a debate and I am saying that I have three applications in it so far. With the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Robin Böhnish, first in the debate, will be prepared by colleague Jan zahradník. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u2	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would take this opportunity to read a few legislative technical adaptations for third reading. It is a rather extensive law and discussed, which is why of course there have been some minor mistakes, which will need to be corrected by the vote or typos in local names of locations that represent the borders of individual national parks. So I would like to read legislative technical notes. Article I of the House Press 501/0: 1. In the introductory phrase of point 1, "54' is replaced by "53'. 2. In point 1 of Section 15c, the words "national park' are replaced by the words "National park Podyjí'. 3. In point 1 of Section 18, point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end of the text of the introductory phrase the words " and it" shall be added. 4. In point 1, footnote 1 is replaced by the following: 52 is deleted. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 53 and 54 are outnumbered. 5. In point 21, the words "including footnote 21' are replaced by the following: 39d' is deleted and the word "law' is deleted at the end of the text. 6. In point 23, the words "including note No. 39d' deleted. 7. In point 25 of Section 78, point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the introductory phrase, the word "territory' shall be replaced by the word "territory'. 8. In point 51 of Annex No The word "part' shall be deleted after the words "naturalists of the most valuable'. 9. In point 51 of Annex No Article 2 (2) (c) "Františsko brook' is replaced by "Františkovský brook'. 10. In point 51 of Annex No 3 point B is replaced by "Felicin's Valley'. In addition to Article III of the House Press 501/0, the following point 5 is inserted after point 4: "5. Law No 365/2015 Coll., amending Act No. 161/1999 Coll., declaring the National Park Czech Switzerland, and amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended, as amended.' The following points are numbered. A further legislative technical comment concerns Amendment A.25 of Resolution No 1 of the Committee on the Environment. 94 of the 32nd meeting, held on 30 March 2016, to print 501/2: in Article I, point 25, the words "Article 25' shall be inserted after the words "Article 501/2'; III points 1 to 4' shall be replaced by the following: III points 1 to 5'. Ladies and gentlemen, in the event that Amendment B.1 to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development is adopted, which can be assumed, further legislative technical adjustments relating to the competence provisions of Section 79 (1) must also be included in the opinion of the Legislative Department. Article 4 (1) (a) (g) and § 79 (b) In the case where the original text of point (f) is to be returned: About the article I of the House press 501/0: 1. In point 32, the words "General measures' are replaced by the words "Declarations'. 2. point 37 is deleted; The following points are numbered. I assume that Mr Junek will read his own legislative technical proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue the debate with Mr Jan Zahradník's speech. He prepares himself with the actual Marek Benda and then Michal Kučera. [[Mr Benda approaches the microphone.]] But I've already summoned a fellow Zahradník. Okay, here's a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u4	Really just a factual point, because I have listened carefully to the rapporteur here, and I would ask very much that we be given what the so-called legislative technical ones are. I believe that most of them are simply not legislatively technical. Adding the repeal of another law in my opinion is not a legislative technical regulation. If we're going to go through this, we have to go back to second reading. I would ask that we all get these proposals on the table or at least somewhere in the system before the end of the third reading debate, so that we can see what is in them, because this seems to me that it really is far beyond what is so-called legislatively technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u5	Okay, thank you. The rapporteur certainly records your comment. Now in the debate, Mr Jan zahradník. A colleague of Kučera will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore coming to the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Nature and Landscape Protection, an amendment to the law that we have on our tables for quite a long time, which has raised us here at the House plenary, in the Committee on the Environment, in the Committee on Regional Development, but also, of course, has aroused, aroused and will raise large discussions outside this building. Mainly, it raises great debate and concern for those people whom it immediately touches, namely people living in Sumava. I have to say openly that, as much as this procedure is hidden in the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Act, into a kind of general law, a general standard that has actually served here for more than 24 years - I will not judge how well it serves - so we know well that the reason is to somehow move the situation in our largest national park and this is the National Park of Šumava. So when I talk about those people who care most about how today's negotiations are going to happen, I mean the people of Sumava, I mean those of the citizens of the Czech Republic who care about this beautiful mountain range that matters so that people can live there so that they can go there, enjoy the beautiful nature. Of course, discussions can have different polarities. There are opinions that I have mentioned here, the views of the people of Sumava, but of course there are also opinions of people who see their sacred mission in nature protection, even perhaps we could call it religion, people for whom nature conservation is such an activity in itself. Activities related to this consider the gros their work, their activities, their life. We have met many of us in the past days when we came to the House, in Malostranské náměstí, the booth of the Duha Movement. The booth was decorated with attractive pictures of nature. So it was mostly Sumava nature. It's nature's lovely, picturesque. I met the case when I spent a few minutes at the stand, maybe tens of minutes, that people came and asked, they said - I'm here to support the green Šumava, where I should sign the arks, I'm going to encourage those Šumava communities to stay green. But I had to say, do you know where you are? You're not at the Šumava village stand here. Here you are at the booth of the Rainbow Movement, which is responsible for the fact that today the Sumava of 20 percent is dry. I've seen a case where the gentleman who signed, after several questions we discussed together, cut his signature off the document. Yes, these people, of course, argue in favour of the good law on national parks, but they mean the law on Sumava, which will suit them, their interests, their concept of nature conservation. [[12.20 hours]] We are also many of us, perhaps all of us, because the e-mail communication today allows for simple sending of messages, we have received e-mails to our mailboxes from people who have contacted us with a request - which may have had certain specific individual features in some cases, but in gross these would have been copied manual texts provided by the Rainbow Movement, and some of the respondents who wrote to us, of course, also admitted it. Their calls that they wrote to us were intersecting at a point like this, and that was the promotion of unattractiveness in national parks. Everyone, however, had in mind the National Park of Sumava. They called for us to support the effortless management, to urge us to protect forests without intervention, and to emphasize forests as reservoirs of water. They called on us to protect the vast green mountain spruces without intervention, to protect ourselves, to join us in protecting them without intervention in a way of rare plants, so that we would not allow one single living tree to perish. They had no idea or did not want to know that what had just been supported by the Rainbow Movement and what had become a deed precisely because of its uninhibited nature has resulted in something completely different - the drying of a significant part of Šumava, 20,000 hectares of this national park, in places that for many years have simply been a sort of magical symbol of Šumava: Vltava Springs, Lake Wall, Lake Bald, the whole massif of Plešný and others. They probably didn't know that these things occurred after the biggest natural phenomenon in the past decades in Sumava, and it was Orkán Kyrill, who was furious in January 2007. The fact that they call for the protection of Sumava as a reservoir of water, I totally agree with that. I think that Sumava, as it is in the law, is grounded, territorial protection of waters, should also be treated in particular in terms of the fact that it is a water supply. As I said here once before, we in the Czech Republic have to rely on what kind of water falls from the sky, which we can keep here, because all the other water flows away from us. We don't have any massive influx. I'm sorry, patriots... "Don't brag, patriots," says Havlíček, "it's not a proper thing that no water flows from anywhere to Bohemia." I said here once before at this microphone. Professor Pokorný, a candidate for science, wrote: "I fear that the forest has died on large areas in peak areas and there is a change in the local climate, the amount of rainfall is falling. The average temperature has risen and especially on large areas are high temperatures in bright sunny days. The fog is dwindling, the clouds aren't forming, more solar energy is coming in, the vaporized water isn't coming back." That's the opinion of a scientist who represents the opinions of a group of scientists who are very concerned about the non-impact management. On the contrary, opinions of those who support non-attractiveness are based on the opinions of another group of scientists, which, in turn, is represented by Professor Hruška, who says otherwise: the best water graber in the forest is a dry tree. It is a matter which is, of course, being questioned. As Professor Hruška challenges the statements made by Professor Pokorný and his favorable scientists, so the professor is questioning the statements made by the professor of Hruška very strongly, in a qualified manner. Therefore, we must not believe only one submission of scientific truth, we must not believe only what a group of scientists who are gathered around the professor of Hruška say. So the e-mails we received, many of us answered, many of us wrote back to them. I also did so at first, and then I focused only on those who seemed interesting in some way to me, or those from people I knew, and I had to express with great regret that they were subject to the opinions of environmental activists and do not take into account the opinions of others. The principle of non-impositionality in the law we are discussing is, in my opinion, enshrined in Section 15, in the words "including ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events." Here I would like to ask one question, whether this provision of natural events or undisturbed security, as perhaps a bit of logical contradiction, is not actually the greatest intervention in nature. I'll give you an example of the Kyrill Orcan. In that January 2007, a large amount of wood matter fell on Sumava in all the zones, essentially cross-section. At that time Mr. Martin Bursík was the minister, who decided on how to deal with this actually great calamity, which threatened to create another calamity, i.e. the calamity of the bark. And then he decided that he would leave the wood in Sumava and that it would not clear it in the first and part of the second zones, that there would be a barking calamity. He used words back then that actually Orc Kyrill is a natural plot and crust is part of nature. And then at the Senate hearing, once again, I must repeat, he took responsibility for the state of Sumava, which will follow in future years. We would understand these arguments if they were territories that were uninhabited from their creation or origin, such as those national parks on the North American continent. But it's not here. Here lived generations of people who formed both the natural and spiritual aspects of this mountain range. It may be said that, in this context, the act of Minister Bursík was a gigantic intervention in the current course of natural events and significantly influenced the face of the landscape of Sumava for many decades and perhaps centuries into the future. Landscape nature, that's also what those e-mail authors are shielding themselves with, which we've been getting into our mailboxes. The landscape is broken, some say that in return, that in some decades, centuries, Sumava can turn green again, and some unfortunately are skeptical in this regard and say that it does not have to be so, that Sumava can be a rocky dry mountain in the future. However, no one is able to predict 100% and qualifiedly how this experiment without intervention in Sumava will eventually look how it will end up. Even the experimenter isn't known, the one running the experiment that decides what happens in the digger. The experimenter, it will be you who pass this law that will take responsibility for this experiment. It is a concern that absolute unattractiveness in Šumava will lead to further barking disasters in the monocultural structure of the Šumava forests, that the other hectares of the forest will dry. And what kind of vegetation will develop in the dry forest, we are definitely unable to predict any of us. The Sumava will become more sensitive to similar natural disasters. These can be repeated with a greater time frequency than is so far. [[12.30 hours]] If we really want to have a wilderness in all its beauty and variety of species in Sumava, then in my opinion we have no choice but nature to help. That means, I have to say clearly here, that those of us who reject us without intervention are not the developers' salesmen, as our opponents sometimes call us. We are not the ones who would like to concrete the whole of Sumava, on its large part to create slopes, golf courses, carnivals and such things. It's not like that. We would just like to take our senses into the hand and to the charming nature, if we want, to help the Bohemian wilderness by planting suitable species in the most exposed places in Sumava. We will prevent the devastation of the forest by massive natural intervention, such as various semimes or from them resulting crust sludges. People must enter this process. It is not possible to close part of Sumava, even the majority part of Sumava, as our law says, and leave it to its own development. Maybe I'll tell her own destiny. Of course, the law is needed here, the intervention of people must be regulated by law, but one simply cannot give up responsibility. So in the most valuable territories, nature will intervene and help in its development. There's still time for us to do this, there's still time for us to try. We can take the first vote right away, I think, if I think that our Rules of Procedure will make this possible, we will deal with the proposals that we have put forward with our colleague Vladimír Vilímc, and this is a motion to reject this law, which has already been made here at second reading and which will be decided in the third reading, i.e. today. Denying that law wouldn't change much for other national parks. It's true, I don't want to say they don't care. I'd hate to say that, but they don't care so much, they're not involved, they're involved in the debate. All in all, they farm in a small area, and the parks have a broken area than Sumava, and, of course, there is no such exposition. There are no villages, there are no people living there. They would not be affected by the rejection of laws. The diction itself does not require a fundamental change. We know that if we want to change something really fundamental, as you think, you'll find your way to another amendment to the law that we're dealing with here about paying for the damage to nature protection, so if there's anything going to be wrong with that law and if it's rejected today, we have a way to correct certain defects. So my challenge is very strong, even supported by the resolution of the South Bohemia Council. At its meeting in April, the representative of the South Bohemia Region adopted a resolution calling on the Chamber of Deputies to reject the amendment to Law 114 on the Protection of Nature and Landscape. The representative of the South Bohemia Region was thus strongly expressed. We also have similar comments from the Representation of the Plzeň Region, the other region, which has the honour to have the National Park of Šumava on its territory. We therefore have a significant mandate for regional self-government. And not to mention that the opinion of the municipalities, which form a union of Šumava municipalities, is completely in line with what I am saying, and the challenge here is absolutely clear. They join us in rejecting this law. So my first call is a call and a request for a vote to reject this law. I propose that we try to deal with the situation in Sumava in a broad discussion. Nothing's gonna happen for Sumava, either. If this law is not passed, the government regulation that the park established 25 years ago will not be abolished, we will be able to proceed according to it. And we also have a law still in force, uninvited, on conservation of nature and landscape. So nothing, there's no major change. Even the European Union does not push us through any infringement to see how often we are called upon to vote in favour of this. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first challenge, let's reject the law. If that were not the case - unfortunately, I have experience that coalition bonding is often stronger than a personal view, but here I might give you the hope that your personal attitude is outweighed and you will vote according to you. Then I would also like to draw attention to the amendments I tabled. I've submitted a total of three. The first proposal concerns, on the one hand, the proposal for the release of words which are without intervention in § 15 para. 3. Then I also try to define the regime for traveling in the national park. There is an important paragraph that I am trying to amend, and this is a paragraph that allows certain interventions in the zone of the most valuable natural values, i.e. in the zone of nature. That's a change in § 18a. And then I also suggest that, if necessary, to maintain ecological stability and natural composition, it should be possible to perform certain forest care interventions. That's until Section 22a. Then I have another proposal here, and it is that the pre-emptive right which the state defines as land in the national park, so that this pre-emptive right is not applied to the built-up territories of municipalities and on the pawnsable areas of municipalities, i.e. those areas which the council has decided in a broad arrangement with the authorities around nature, among other things, that this is the territory for the development of the municipality designated. My second proposal is to establish a system of trips to the national park. The national park is specific, which allows a certain off-system intervention, that is, so that unlike other parks in Sumava, there is a network of trips, whatever the list of these routes, so what about their incorporation into the map base to be included as an annex to the law. Finally, my third amendment concerns the position discussed by the municipalities. This is a well-known symbol of the problem that the law brings to the community, whether the nature protection authority wants to discuss or agree with the municipalities in the various documents that the park manages. Word to discuss - deal. We know well who we were in some public administration, in some segment of public administration, that sometimes discussing means calling meetings and rejecting all proposals. So there's an obligation to make a deal. I suggest that the agreement must be not with the park council, but with the municipalities that are legally involved in the council. The law does not specify how many members the board has, i.e. the park manager can name so many supporters in the board, so that the municipalities can easily overvote. Therefore, I propose in my proposals that the obligation to agree on individual changes, whether it concerns national park zones, peace zones, or also the principles of care, so that the agreement must be made with the 22 representatives of the municipalities who are nominated for the park council under this law. That is my third amendment. Of course, I might be able to get ahead of the process a little bit. The rapporteur will then present a proposal for a procedure at the beginning of the debate. I would like to see those proposals of mine, first of all, a proposal that is a proposal to amend § 18a, which then defines the activities that can be done in the natural zone, so also those proposals that define the importance of municipalities when arguing about those important documents, that they be put forward and that they be voted on in advance rather than those proposed by the Committee on the Environment on the basis of an initiative from the Ministry. When the moment comes when the President asks whether anyone has any comments on the procedure, I will then take the liberty of signing up and stepping up, and I will make this proposal for a change of procedure. [[12.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know, of course, that this is a matter that may be conflicting for us, but I am still joining the challenge of the South Bohemia Region, which was absolutely clear - a request for rejection. If this were not the case, please support your amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u7	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. I'm now registering his application for a procedure. And now, Mr Michal Kučera, Mr Jiří Junek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said here on the subject of the laws on conservation of nature and landscape. This law has been here in Parliament for quite a while, we have spoken here at first and second reading. I don't think it's worth talking about him anymore at this point. I'd just like to remind you of some basic points here. I mean, the House has given this law quite intensive attention to committees, whether it be the Committee on the Environment, as well as in the subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape, where I am chairman of this subcommittee. At the beginning of my speech, I would just like to respond briefly to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Zahradník, who divided the scientist into two parts. I would not dare to do this, however, if it has already been said here, I would like to thank the two people here, in particular, who, as Šumava will continue to evolve and how this law looks, have put a lot of work in place, and this is Professor Bedřich Moldan and former Chairman of the Shadow Council of the Šumava National Park, Mr. Docent Hruška, who have actually done a great deal of work so that we can have this modern standard here today and approve it. I myself consider it necessary to emphasise the compromise nature of the proposal, which has successfully balanced the various legitimate interests, based on the fundamental mission of national parks, which is nature conservation. In fact, a smaller share of the territory is strictly protected in our country compared to the developed countries, so national parks are essential for maintaining a relatively undisturbed natural environment for both present and future generations. Definitely should be protected by disruptive influences today and in the future, and I think that this bill provides sufficient assurance. I would like to remind you that it is very good that the establishment of the same basic scheme for all current and possibly future national parks is very good, while ensuring that the local conditions in each of them can be sufficiently taken into account. I would like to draw attention to the fact that forests in non-impact areas are developing in a new quality, namely the high biodiversity of protected species of all groups and the large regeneration of soils. This means that they are not merely restoring themselves. I would like to say, and here I would respond to the words of my previous speaker that parks bring prosperity, bring prosperity to the locals, as clearly illustrated by the comparison of construction in and outside the municipalities. I would like to remind you here that in my previous appearance here I have pointed to the territory, the mountain areas, which have completely depopulationd at a dramatic and unprecedented pace and where there is no change on the horizon. I again offer all those disgruntled mayors from Šumava an excursion to the Ore Mountains to see how the territory that is not protected will turn out, how the territory where there is no national park, to see what a populated area and territory looks like, which unfortunately does not yet have a great perspective, although sometimes in the Ore Mountains we will find locations that are comparable, perhaps even at a higher level than they are in Šumava. And the difference is the only one - the difference is the existence of a national park. So if the Sumavian mayors want to use it, I'll be happy to take them to the Ore Mountains, and of course I'll show them the localities and villages. I would like to say that the TOP 09 and the starosta will support this amendment. They will, of course, support it if they pass, or if they fail, the amendments that are mentioned here. I would, of course, like to express my support in addition to the amendments that have been passed by the Committee on the Environment, so I would like to express my support in particular for the amendments prepared by the professional public together with the environmental initiatives and which we have here under D. I think that we should all raise our hand there and support these standards, just as the MEPs will do to the TOP 09 and the Mayors. We fundamentally reject the amendments under point C, which means Mr Zahradník's proposals. We fundamentally reject the amendments referred to in point E, that is to say, Mr Bendl's amendments, and, in particular, and very categorically, we reject the amendments under point I, that is, Mr Klán's amendments. If these amendments fail, we are willing to support this modern and very important standard for nature and landscape protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u9	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, Mr Václav Votava, with a point of fact. Electronically, he takes precedence, so a colleague of Klán, with a de facto view of Mr Votav.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to what Mr Kučera, the previous speaker, said through you. Mr. Colleague, this bill is not a compromise. There's no way it's compromise. If there were compromise, there would be comments from both the South Bohemia Region and the Pilsen Region, there would also include comments from municipalities, residents of those municipalities, mayors, etc. And it's not. So let's not talk about it being a compromise law. There's no way. I've been here a couple of times to see what my attitude is going to be like. Even if it's a government proposal, a coalition proposal, and I'm a government MP, I'm not voting for that law. I will also not vote because I am a citizen of the Pilsen Region and a representative of the Pilsen Region and I respect the interests of the Pilsen Region, after all the South Bohemia Region, to which I also have a warm relationship. So I'm going to vote for rejection. If the rejection fails, I will vote in favour of Mr Zahradník's amendments, although he is from the second political barricade, that does not prevent me from doing so. I am voting in favour of sensible proposals in this case, and I think that Mr Zahradník's proposals are reasonable and protect the interests of the people and the people who live there. First of all. I will also vote in favour of Mr Klán's amendment, which exempts Šumava from this bill. The bill is not good for Sumava, it is not good for the people of Sumava, it is not good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u11	I thank Mr Václav Votav. Mr Klán's point of order now. [[Member of the Klán: As rapporteur.]] As a reporter. In that case, with priority rights, you mean. Okay, so you have the floor in front of my colleague Junk, Mr. Rapporteur. I'm sorry I didn't see your application as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u12	All right, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to respond here to Mr Kučera through you. He said that, in principle, the TOP 09 parliamentary club will be against the amendments under I, which are my amendments, which essentially exempt Šumava from this bill. I remember in the last term when we were dealing with this Sumava many times. There was a bill from the Plzeň Region, a government proposal and other proposals from various parties. We've never come to much of a solution. You know, I'm worried that we'll have to deal with Sumava in two years or something. the protection of the landscape in a year, so the law 114 opens up again and we're going to deal with Sumava and the protection of the landscape again, and it's going to be over and over again, and it's going to drag on for a few years, and we're not going anywhere. That is why I tabled an amendment to remove individual national parks from this law 114 on landscape protection. I have not yet heard that anyone has supported the amendments from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, but I think that the Guarantee Committee has given a favourable opinion. At least this will pass because those amendments adopted to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development partially reflect the demands of the mayors I have dealt with on that committee, but only partially. Of course, Mr zahradník's amendments reflect the local issue more. I had those amendments that were already recorded in the system deleted because it was their job to launch the debate that we were having here and we are still clearly having. As my colleague Votava has already said here, I will also support the motion to reject it, because I do not think it is a compromise law. It may seem a little different to somebody, but I don't accept it, but in my opinion, it isn't. At the same time, I can say that if the amendment does not pass just under the letter I, which is my amendments, I will not raise my hand for the whole law. That's why I'm here. That if we don't remove the individual national parks and make them a special law, that hundred and twelve will still be dragged to us for the very reason that they're being introduced there and put into that hundred and twelve national parks. If they're not there, we won't worry, because if we want to change the boundaries of a national park, that hundred and twenty-four needs to be reopened. If the national parks are not listed there, then we will open a special law that will apply to individual national parks, where we will adjust it and it will be absolutely calm. Otherwise, we'll get back to the vicious circle, where we are at the moment. Finally, I would like to say that I am also speaking for the reason that I, along with my fellow Zahradník, Bendl, was included in the e-mails that we received, and I was mentioned not to support these amendments and to support Mr Junek's amendment or any other. I find it rather smiling sometimes when the e-mails are exactly the same, only the head is a little different and that's all that matters. I can say for myself that I didn't respond to them because I did it once, in the last parliamentary term, and I finally found out that some people didn't even really know that there were some things like this, and when I started to discuss for example. Even with the Duha Movement, they gave me the truth that actually removing those national parks from this bill... [[The speaker turns to Minister Babiš, who calls and cancels the speaker.]] The minister's on the phone, so I'm a little distracted by my performance. To follow up. When I asked these people if they knew anything about it, they didn't know much about it either, and when some members of the Spirit Movement, which mentioned that it would be good to remove those national parks from the law, I was also very pleased. Finally, I can say that we have dealt with this law quite extensively on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we have found some solutions and solutions with the Guarantee Committee, but despite all this, there is no compromise proposal for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u13	I thank Mr Klán, we are now continuing with Mr Junek's speech, Mr Petr Bendl will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only briefly about this amendment, because I think that, both in committees and in second reading, this law has already been discussed in very detail, a number of arguments have been raised. I myself have given sufficient reasons why I support this law and support it as a KDU-ČSL, and I have duly justified some of my amendments. Just to the edge, though. To this discussion, I would like to say that we are talking about 1.5 percent of the area of the Czech Republic. That is how many national parks occupy the area of the Czech Republic. I don't think it's so big a territory that we can't afford to let nature do what she can on this very surface and interfere as little as possible. I repeat, it is 1.5 percent of the area of the Czech Republic. I didn't even want to respond to the debate here anymore, but I can't, I'm sure the performance of my colleague zahradník encourages it. Just a few things. The e-mails you received didn't call for interference or whatever it was said. The interference is already anchored in the law, and now we're just talking about when it's going to be reached in the 50 percent. But that's not important. I was intrigued by some other things, and I'd say some twisted facts. I think the debate has been quite substantive all along, so I'm sorry about some of the arguments now that they're flipping over. I would like to say to Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, that Professor Hruška certainly never said that the best thing for water retention is a dry tree. I don't think he ever really said that. We all know that the best tree for water retention is the living tree, but I'm sure the dry tree is better for water retention than the bare plain, which is created by cutting out the forests and planting the small seedlings. Just to be clear. And we shouldn't turn over the facts that were here. The last thing I'd like to respond to is a fellow Zahradník or something. I'm surprised when I look at your argument, so if we take it as a result, what does she mean? You're telling us that nature can't do without a human being, that in a moment, if, from an hour to an hour, there's an extinct species, then within a week, there's also nature, and that planet here is just one desert. That's what you're telling us. If you don't hit Sumava, there'll be a desert of Sumava. I don't know where you get this pride that without that person, nature can't cope. On the contrary. The nature always manages on its own, and it's always the best way to do it without a human being. So that's just some small reactions. Perhaps only to Mr Votava through Mr President. You said you would support the proposals of Mr Bendl, Mr Zahradník, Mr Klán. This is a typical example of how the law so called. It will be deboned, and none of it will be, and it will be utterly useless. Then it really is no use voting for him as a whole. Plus, you said you were here defending the interests of the Plzeň Region and the people who live there. I understand you've been elected Pilsen County. But you're here to defend the interests of all the people, of all the people of this country, of all the nation. And that park is national. That's what the national name is for, is that it's a territory where the whole republic, the whole country, the whole nation are interested in. Plus, you said the law was bad, bad, bad, bad, but I still can't hear exactly what it is. That's the least of the things that sound here. And it's been all along the discussion. And again, when I asked the opponent and the mayors of Sumava, "Say your thoughts," I didn't know. Or at least. [[13.00 hours]] So many of my notes. I will probably no longer present my individual amendments in detail here. I just want to say that these are no terrorist proposals, no ultras designs. In summary, in one amendment, I say, yes, the law says, there will be at least 50 percent of the natural non-impact zones in these national parks. But the law doesn't say when. Like when you have a meeting and there's some homework, you always say who's gonna do it, who's gonna do it, who's gonna do it, and when. And this is where we miss it in the law. I don't see anything eco-terrorist about that. Likewise, my other amendments are quite common and specify some things. Yes, I would like us to somehow eliminate in national parks the rampant development that is constantly growing into our landscape, and then national parks, in my opinion, cease to make sense and lose the sense for which I think we are setting them up. So it's just in a nutshell what my amendment brings. I would just like to ask for your support for these proposals and, in particular, I would like to point out that the amendment under D12, which means the ban on the sale of state land in national parks, has undergone a fairly clear majority by the Committee on the Environment. So, first of all, here I would like to ask you to support this amendment. So much for me, then. Then I'll apply again in the course of the procedure... [[The rapporteur's response from the right.]] Now? Okay. Just for the procedure. I would just like to point out here that, at the moment the amendments to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development under letter B pass, my proposals D10 and D11 can be voted on by replacing the words "general measure which" with the words "the decree which" because the amendment to the Committee on Public Administration changes these two words there, or measures of a general nature, are replaced by a decree. That's what I'd like to sign up for. And I do not know if the rapporteur has already talked about this, but I would like the various amendments to be voted individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u15	Thank you, Mr Junek. He made a number of factual remarks. First, Mr Igor Jakubčík, Mr Klán, then Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, to my previous speaker. Whoever wants to hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear hear But we're dealing with laws against scumbags here, we're dealing with laws to protect people, to protect consumers, to protect employees, to protect businessmen. And in the case of this law, what are we dealing with? We deal with bugs, we deal with herbs, we deal with trees, we deal with animals, we deal with fish for one simple reason: we have a National Park Podyjí, we have National Park Krkonoše, etc. But remember one thing. Sumava is completely different. There are more than 20 municipalities inside the national park. Show me the only national park with us, where within the national park there are municipalities. They're not. This means that we of the citizens and of the people who live in the territory of the National Park of Sumava make citizens - bugs, fish, animals - the sixth category. So we're always saying here that we just have to fight for people, we have to defend people against that, eventually against that. But we make the people of Sumava citizens of the sixth category. We're putting them in sixth, maybe seventh place. Maybe I missed something. Please note that those people who live in Sumava are exactly the same people who live anywhere else in our republic. These people are a nation, too. They also make up the population of the Czech Republic. So please protect these people as well. Do not just protect nature and landscape. Because even the name is misleading: conservation of nature and landscape. But where are the people? Where are the residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u17	I thank Mr Jakubčík. Now Mr Klán also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would have responded by means of you to Mr Junek. I think he's got me all wrong. I didn't defend the interests of the Plzeň Region here. I was just saying that in the last term, you named me, you probably just misjudged it, but I said here that in the last term, there was a law on the Šumava National Park, which was submitted by the Plzeň Region's representativeship. That was really here, and we were discussing it here. You're the one who said that in some way I wanted to defile the law by actually removing individual national parks from the hundred and twenty-fourth. It's not true. If we take it out, and I looked at it more comprehensively, there won't be a problem that, if we change the boundaries of the national park or anything, we would open the law number 114. [[They had to.]] That's why we have to eliminate it. And as far as the complexity is concerned, maybe I should defend the interests of everyone in the Republic, of course, that's true. So I just heard two planes about Sumava. I interrogated the mayor or deputy mayor of Sumava, and I was also in communication with the Rainbow Movement. So I looked at it more comprehensively and I put it all together and I respond based on it. So I'm looking at the problems in a complex way. That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Votava, also with a factual remark. Of course, I'm registering the ones from the scene, but electronics have priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a response to my colleague Junek through you. He said we didn't tell you why the law bothered us. I would advise him to look back at the scene, how the law was discussed and how the laws of Sumava were discussed. I'm sure he'll find our position there. And at the end of the day, a fellow Zahradník spoke of those things. He didn't just say it bothered us. I hope he forgives me for saying "us." I don't mind! And he also made it clear why. And Jakubčík's colleague was also saying that this is also about the people who live there. We don't look at the law from the left or right. koneckonců all, and again, my colleague Vilímec, who is a right-wing politician, I am a left-wing politician, will not be angry with me, and we voted in the regional council in the interests of the people who live in Šumava in the interests of the Pilsen Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u21	I thank Mr Votav. Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr František Laudát, then Mr Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u22	Just a very short time for the margo of my previous speakers. We offered several times, and more or less questions were asked about the mayors of Šumava municipalities, whether they were interested in making cadastrals or those built-up parts of the village were removed from the Šumava National Park, so that they would simply not be a part of it. They wouldn't be restricted, they wouldn't be threatened by the park. But they weren't interested. They didn't like that either. So taking benefits from it and from it is very beautiful. I would really like to call again and again - there are three of them, I will take them to the car, both Mr Klán and Mr Votava, and Mr Jakubčík, who I do not see here now, and I will take them to the village of Domašín in the Ore Mountains. There is our mayor happy to welcome them to see what such a village looks like in the Ore Mountains, which manages with a few crowns in the budget, where there is zero tourism, where the land has almost no value, where no one moves, where no one goes on vacation. And then compare it to the hardships, the mouths of the mayors at the Sumava National Park. I can tell you that the mayor is out there fighting for this village's bare survival because she doesn't have a national park like she does in Sumava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of František Laudát also with a point of fact and then Mr Václav Zemek. Perhaps the last point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u24	Thank you. When it was said that you voted in favour of the interests of the Pilsen Region and its municipalities, I will tell you that from the perspective of the present time you have already voted against these interests. When a colleague here asked Jakubčík where the people are, they are in fact, even though they are not mentioned, in that very law. You can shove, you know, some houses, anything, wealth if you open a window and suffocate. If suddenly there is a crisis that you need to reach into the saved gene pool of one or the protected area. I would very much like you to finally understand those who still do not understand that today the situation is somewhere else. It was an era when I looked into some nearby regions, for example, and it was centuries ago and several centuries ago, when people came from here to watch the fascinating ancient monuments through the wild Alpine nature, which they found very uninteresting. On the contrary, risky, threatening them. It's the other way around today. Nowadays people are more likely to go to watch the remains of a preserved wild alpine nature, if they are still somewhere. The situation is changing dramatically. And if we want to leave something to future generations, it's just nature. She'll be worth more than anything. And it will decide on survival and survival not only of our society, because the environment does not know the boundaries and nature does not ask about any lines on the map. So in this, I want to confirm that a topper will always protect nature. Because nature is weaker than a man now, and it can't defend itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u25	I also thank my colleague, Mr Laudat, for keeping time with the factual remarks made by Mr Laudát. Now, Mr Václav Zemek, with a factual remark, continues with the factual remark made by Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u26	Thank you for the floor, I will be really brief and factual. I will not comment on the debate that is going on here, which was to be held and held at second reading. I will only respond to the fact that it was said that there was no public debate or it was small. I remember there were several round tables on the Committee on the Environment, where representatives of municipalities took part. For example, there was a famous icon of Šumava municipalities Mr. Mayor Schubert. Some of his proposals were even accepted, incorporated. So this is where the debate was going, that's one thing. Then I would take the liberty of reacting quickly to my colleague Klán. Mr President, your argument that we will remove something from the law, separate it, and therefore the law will not be reopened, so it is indeed odd. I've been working with this law for 20 years in practice, and I know that there's been some kind of effort to take some of it out at any moment. The species protection, the protection of the important landscape elements, then you're suggesting we take out the national parks. But it doesn't work in practice. And if we take the national parks out of it, we're actually denying the novel itself. I think that's pointless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, so far, the final factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u28	Mr President, I am turning to my fellow Member, Mr Laudát. I was the one who said in my performance that it was impossible to leave nature to its destiny. We have to help her somehow. But not by letting her go without intervention, shutting her down, not going there, not being at least organized, sensitive, with a high degree of sensitivity. That's just how it needs to be done. While this proposal says: We leave most of the territory of the national park without intervention. We'll shut down both for visitors and for people who might be able to help nature there. Nothing like what you said is true. None of us who oppose this law want to do anything but sensitive, cautious, legally defined interventions to help nature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u29	As further factual remarks are multiplying, I will try to calm the House by reading the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. First, my colleague Karel Pražák from 12.45 until the end of the meeting and from 12.10 Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Health Rostislav Vyzula. Mr Milan Urban's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u30	Thank you for the floor. Now that I have to be here when the mayor is walking around in a former parking lot in Malostranská náměstí, I have decided to say something about this and try to say it as someone who is independent in terms of at least where he grew up and lives. I am Central Bohemia and the Central Bohemia Region has not had very good relations with the Pilsen Region recently, because the Pilsen Region has deprived him of part of the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, namely Brdy. Then it's just proof of independence. However, I think that even if your intention was to enforce such a law a thousand times, if it were a godly act for the benefit of nature, then the moment you do not convince the citizens who represent the representatives of individual regions, it does not last long. I think they can only pay for things in the long run, where at least most will identify with such intentions. I believe you want to protect nature, but you can hardly do it against the will of representatives of individual regions. I believe that it cannot be built in such a way that it is black and white that the law wants to protect nature and the representatives of these regions do not want to protect it. That seems too simple to me. I think there must be a debate that will lead to a closer position and an opinion. I mean, if you put it that way, you're doing the same thing we blame the European Union for. That it forces us to do something that most public people in the Czech Republic do not agree with. So first, we must be confident internally that these are the right intentions, including those who live there, live and represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u31	Thank you, too, for keeping time on the point of fact, and we will return to the debate. With a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Then Petr Bendl, a party colleague. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u32	I would like to respond, under the Rules of Procedure, to my previous speaker Mr Urban's speech. But if that were the case, and I agree, there's not even a letter about Sumava in this law. I wish it were. If those zealous supporters asked the people who live there if they wanted to, they'd know if they wanted to or didn't want to. And we wouldn't have to discuss it here for weeks and months and make it strong and say to those people, "We'll take care of you even if you don't want to!" We know better than you what is good for you and for the development of your community! We are smarter than your mayors and your representatives, whether municipal or regional. It's the pride of the translators that they think they know better than the others. I don't take their opinion. I don't agree with them, but I respect them. But they're not willing to respect the opinions of the people who live there. And that's what bothers me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u33	Thank you and now Mr Petr Bendl, duly signed up for the debate. And I believe that we will be able to end the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u34	Thank you. I finally got a proper application. It will at least allow me to respond to some of the techs that fell here. I must first tell my colleague Jakubčík that he is right, because the law is written so that people leave there. To be forced to leave there. That's how the law is set up. That's right. I have met with a number of mayors and people directly affected by this law, even with fellow Members on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. And that is the answer to my colleague Junek, whom I normally respect very much. But they told you exactly what they wanted. And they even said that by bringing us their opinion on what the legislation is supposed to look like. And a number of those amendments were tabled by me and some of my colleague Klán at the committee meeting and were rejected. But it's not true, and I have to stand up for the mayors on this one that they don't know what they want. They know and even have it in paragrafo. Unfortunately, these proposals were rejected by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Some of these proposals are put forward by a colleague, Zahradník. And they are very resonant with what the municipal council and regional councils think, as has been said here. [[13.20 hours]] And Milan Urban is right when he says that we are actually acting like the European Union towards us by this law. We here are convinced that some things should be different, and Europe is imposing on us something that we do not want. And now those of you who support this bill will behave the same way. You're gonna tell these people how to behave and what to do. And even - and I will prove this in my amendment - you want to limit the handling of their property, their private property, which has nothing to do with developers. You want this law... And I've asked the Minister several times, and he hasn't answered that question once, if the person you're proposing to put the seals on the cadastral office on his property, on his field, on his property, on his property, on his mortgage, for example, or any loan you're proposing to, and guaranteeing his own property. I'm convinced he won't be able to, because he won't be able to be alienated, because he'll have the pre-emptive right to stand here. So we're making them citizens of almost the former regime because suddenly we're not comfortable with someone who has a field there for example for several generations... So now we're gonna say, "No, no, no, folks, you have to ask the state first." Or the nature and landscape conservation authority. And go over there and say, "Hey, Karel, maybe Pepa would buy it from me, the property, but the state has a pre-emptive right." The estimated price is a million, but Pepa's offering two million, so the state could buy it for the two, right? That's a great deal. That's awesome! And I don't want to imply any more things that have to do with it. I think everyone understands that I'm just gonna go to some clerk and start talking to him about how I'd like to sell my property and that the state has a seal and if we don't agree on that price somehow. That is what you advocate in this proposal. And my amendment is contrary to what the Duha Movement is spreading here, and I don't want to express myself dirty, who doesn't give a damn that these people live there for generations, that they have some of their possessions there. They don't give a damn. And they say, Take it away from them, for the state has every right. In modern society and modern democracies, there are normally private property, private properties within individual national parks. And when the state wants a national park there, it compensates for the damage they have, and it normally works. And it can work. There's no need to touch these people's property at all. Why do you want to do this? The Minister's argument was: It's been there since 1992! But they didn't have the seals on the cadastrals. And I barely care that it's been there since 1992. If it had been there since 1996 or 2001 or 2005 or 2011! I don't care. It just doesn't belong there on principle. Why do you want to take these people's property? Why can they not manage theirs in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic, with restrictions on nature protection, etc., which the state should compensate for in the interests of all citizens when they cannot manage like any other farmer in the Czech Republic? That is my amendment, which says, "Leave these people alone as far as property is concerned." And if you want any restrictions, you can vote him out here, but we need to compensate for the damage. And if anyone takes a mortgage or builds an apartment... I've also read this recently as a group of scientists want to prove to the fact that people are moving from that area because they're just not able to get a job there, but there are more apartments, which is logical, because that tourism is just going up there. And if there's anything these people can do for a living, it's actually the tourist accommodation. So they're investing in this area. And the number of flats is rising. There's a logic to that. That doesn't say anything about super developers. That's what we're talking about is we're banning almost everything in that territory. The only thing people can feed on is the area of tourism and the area of accommodation and the provision of services of this nature. I'm so surprised... Or maybe I'm not. But it bothers me that you want to go against your own, even tell party colleagues who live there. Perhaps the YES movement does not have any representatives in individual regions. But if you guys were to go out there and run there and say to these people, "We want to limit what you're doing up there... You'd have to have the same opinion as the county councils that are there. Please try to think about what you want to do to these people. And I note that this is not about not wanting to protect the landscape at all. He just wants to take the nonsense out of the bill that I don't think belongs there, and it's to people who live there who don't want and don't want the landscape and nature to be devastated in any way, they live there, they're not interested in living next to the fabric we've got here. They're interested as their ancestors in living there, respecting the law, but not being banished. They have to defend themselves, and unfortunately, that's what this law brings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u35	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Václav Zemek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u36	I just really couldn't hold on. Please, here's what they say about getting people out of Sumava and stuff. That is, of course, nonsense. We don't live here in any vacuum. There's Law No. 114 conservation of nature and landscape, which already lays down certain conditions. And this amendment only unifies national parks and simplifies the whole standard. Of course, the people who live in Sumava are affected by the national park, no doubt. But they're just aware of where they live, and the park is there. And no one wants to cancel it. When you ask the citizens: do you want to cancel the national park? - no one wants to disturb him. To avoid saying that we're firing somebody here or this. There's just an impression here that there's some demonic novel that's gonna make life in Sumava impossible. It's just not like that. Of course, it touches someone, but it's not that important. And the other thing. It's quite pronounced here that there's some pre-emptive state law, restricting property rights, and who knows what else. You know, we, on the one hand, are willing to tolerate the expropriation of land within Linen buildings, which we don't mind. But that's when someone wants to sell land in valuable territory and they have to offer it to the state first, which, of course, doesn't prevent them from wanting it to sell it to someone else, so that's a major problem. I have to say no to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point - Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u38	So if anyone demonized anything, it was the proponents of this bill and it was the Senate proposal on the Šumava National Park. This was the bill with which people, representatives of municipalities and regions, who are concerned, who live there, who are aware of the restrictions that brings them to live in the national park, agreed. The same people who are telling us today, "Why are you fighting against him?" they rejected this proposal uncompromisingly. For ideological reasons, not practical reasons. And of course I understand left-wing politicians that their idea of the right world is: when the state owns something, it's better. And my previous speaker said it here. Some clerk's gonna have a thumb like that if there's a pre-emptive right, and he says I'm gonna buy it from Franta, and not from Karel. [[He's either pointing his thumb up or down.]] There are no rules. The state doesn't need it for anything. The State is to lay down the rules which apply and does not distinguish between ownership. Otherwise, you're moving from your benches to other benches, and they're the ones who believe that the best thing is when everything's owned by the state that he's wiser than the citizens and that state ownership is just better. It is a political view that has the support of a certain part of the public. I deeply disagree. But again, the pride! What's the matter with that? So try to go to the bank sometime that you are going to borrow money, and offer them your land with a seal and no seal. And see what those banks tell you! Well, the MP is laughing, he probably doesn't need to borrow for housing, that's possible. [[to Mr Zemka]] But if you deny this elementary economic fact, then you just don't tell the truth. Property burdened by a burden or some seal, some pre-emptive right, has less value than when you go to borrow money, for those who want or have to lend you the money, than when the property is clean and there is no problem there. If you don't think that's true, then deny it to me. [[The President is already speaking.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u39	Thank you, Mr President, it is time for you to make a point of fact. [[Member Stanjura thanks you.]] Your party colleague Vilímec, who is duly logged in to the debate, continues. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u40	Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues, Mr Zemek, when he assessed this law in relation to the people living in Sumava, he said: Well, someone will be touched, but it is nothing fundamental. So I refuse to let this law affect the negative people living in Sumava. I no longer want to discuss this very controversial proposal for an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. Although this law does not apply only to Sumava, it concerns all national parks, so basically the biggest and legitimate concerns of this law arise in the Šumava municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is far from merely about the mayors. The mayors of these municipalities are representatives of people living there, but not only of them. And that's what I'd like to remind you of. In this age-old dispute - and this is not a dispute that arises only in the debate on this bill - there is on the one hand those who enforce the creation of another wilderness, virtually. natural zones, as is written in the draft law or zone of nature close, at the expense of the existing cultural landscape. These people argue that the creation of the wilderness takes precedence over the interests - I must add legitimate interests - of the people living in Sumava, but also of the interests of Šumava visitors. Yesterday I received some material from a nonprofit organization that seriously claims that the creation of a wilderness on the territory of the National Park of Šumava benefits in the economic development of the region, benefits in the area of permanent jobs and business for the inhabitants of the region, etc. etc. Those are just absurd ideas that I don't share, but that aren't true. If you look at people living in Sumava today, it's not some picture of people living there well. When I look from the perspective of the Pilsen Region at unemployment, which is not high, I note, in the Pilsen Region, and I am talking about the part of Šumava, which is located in the territory of the Pilsen Region, Šumava is clearly the place where the greatest unemployment is. And there are minimal jobs. That means people in Sumava don't really live well. To be objective, it is not only because there is a national park, but also there is a very complicated transport accessibility especially in areas such as Sušicko etc. They're just not areas where it's really easy to live. That's one group of the dispute. The second group of disputes, including, of course, the majority, not all of them, the mayors of the local communities, points out that the Šumava region is facing real problems and further reduction of people's living conditions and the spread of the inaccessible wilderness will only lead to further poverty in this area. The truth is, and that is an objective finding that the first group of wildlife advocates is at least more active by the number of emails, can create more lobbies and more pressure in current conditions. The government amendment to the law is not a compromise between the opinions of the first and second groups, but clearly more sides with the first group, and the second group essentially refers to a much weaker position than the current position of the second group. When I read the amendments, it is evident that some proposals lead to even greater acceleration and acceleration of wilderness creation. The proposals of the Committee on the Environment are also more connected with the idea that the expansion of natural zones, the creation of another wilderness according to the government's proposal, is the right path in Sumava. I don't think so. This dispute today, if we come to a vote - I do not have an ambition to speak for half an hour - will be decided by the Chamber of Deputies. However, it is appropriate, and I would like to quite strongly point out here, that it is actually possible for Members to decide whether, for example, representatives of municipalities will be involved only formally, or we are interested in finding and reaching a genuine agreement between representatives of municipalities, conservationists and national parks. I am afraid, and here I must also support the announced proposal by Mr Zahradník that the voting procedure - I would like to hear not only the Minister of the Environment, but also the rapporteur - proposed by the Guarantee Committee, does not allow such a decision to be taken entirely. I do not want what sometimes happens to be repeated in this law, i.e. that, as a result of voting from the committee's proposal, whether it is a guarantee committee or another committee, some other important proposals are then unvoted. Only during this parliamentary term will I remember, for example, the vote on the amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund. It's actually from the environment. About a year and a half ago, we were here quite unsuccessfully and unnecessarily overwhelming ourselves as to whether it is appropriate to allow a vote first on the proposal by Petr Bendl, or by approving the committee proposal, not to allow a rather substantial decision on a quite important change in the performance of the state administration. So that this situation does not really happen again, I strongly support the rapporteur's reply to the request and request of Mr Zahradník, and let him vote before voting on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, on Jan Zahradník's proposals, C4 separately and then together C10 through C13. Only then should the proposals adopted by the Committee on the Environment be voted on, and in my view, separately, on a single basis. Such a vote is after the many discussions, because we have been discussing this for a very long time, seriously. Let it really prove, especially in relation to Mr Zahradník's proposals, whether the Chamber of Deputies favours the adequate position of municipalities in the process of finding agreement on the further form of the national park, or prefers to reduce their role in the next debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u41	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr Marek Benda is now duly signed in, Mr Šidlo will be prepared. I can't sign up because I don't have anyone to replace me. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u42	Mr Vice-President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the rapporteur has given us proposals that he has identified as legislatively technical. I would like to say that I am willing to recognise half of them as legislative technical changes. I understand that rewriting matters may be recognised as a legislative technical change, but Article III, the repeal of another applicable law, is simply not a legislative technical change. Don't let anyone get mad at me. This may have been forgotten by the Ministry for a while, but we either have to repeat the second reading, or I ask the rapporteur to withdraw it as a legislative technical proposal, because we simply cannot do it this way, that when we remember that something has not been done, something has gone wrong, so we will come back and say in the third reading that it is legislative technical. The same are the changes proposed as if resulting from point B1 of Article I of the House Press 501/0. point 37 is deleted? I can't undo the point of the original government proposal and pretend that this is a legislative technical change immediately resulting. [[13.40 hours]] The same is the general measure proposed to replace it with the word of the Order. That's every completely different legal institute. Maybe the petitioner's opinion has changed that he wants another legal institute. I understand that. But then this proposal must take place at second reading and it really cannot be presented to us at third reading as a legislative technical comment. So please ask the rapporteur to withdraw these points before the vote or, if he does not do so, to request an opinion either by our legislation or even better by the constitutionally-legal committee, whether these proposals are voteable as legislatively-technical. I'm saying they're not really legislative tech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u43	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Karel Šidlo is now reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, members of the government, I did not at first consider that I should speak today at the third reading. I wanted to comply with the Rules of Procedure so that we could proceed to the procedure for voting, because the arguments were raised. But questions were constantly being returned here in this discussion, what we have reservations specifically about this amendment of the law. I have to allow myself to recall my performances at first reading and some performances at second reading, which clearly argued what is in contradiction if we approach national parks and especially the National Park of Šumava only and only by the amendment of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. I will stress just a few things: they are of a legislative nature. Even at the time of the Government's decree on the establishment of the Šumava National Park, the National Park could only be established by law. The decision of the Supreme Administrative Court expressly states that, in view of the conflict with the Charter, the establishment regulation of the park of effectiveness had already expired in December 1991, in view of the provisions of the Act of Accession on the Charter, in order to conflict with the Charter. Therefore, the Šumava National Park could not be revived as a result of the provisions of Section 90 (9) of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, since it did not actually exist at the time of its entry into force. Parliament has expressly refused many times to establish the National Park of Sumava by law, as required by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and explicitly the law on the conservation of nature and landscape. The National Park Administration was established only as a contribution organisation and the administrative authority's character was acquired only thanks to the 2009 amendment to the Nature and Landscape Protection Act, unfortunately it is not yet in breach of Article 79 (1) of the Constitution that its local scope is laid down by law. Neither does this novel. Just so we can talk about how I'm doing from a legislative point of view. And as far as the comments on the diction of the present law are concerned, I will not quote them here according to the paragraphs, I would repeat myself at least at eight to nine points. But I will only say one important thing, which, as a engineer and a man in practice living on standards and mathematics and physics, is completely incomprehensible to me. There's a lot of talk about citizens here, but the borders of national parks are essentially copying the boundaries of protected landscape areas on which parks are being declared, and the zoning from the total area today is around 10, up to 15 percent. And here colleagues use not only in the diction of the law, but also in the debate terms: "We will do it to 50 per cent of the territory - up to." I don't understand it, because nature protection is being promoted and expanded here, and non-impact areas are supposed to represent areas that I don't understand anymore. I would understand that the current first zones, if they go into the new diction of the law, yes, let's say 100 percent without interference, let's change the visiting modes. But let's not do this to the entire area of the declared law that copies the original protected landscape areas. There we do terrible legislative things, and contrary to what I said, the law here is not based on proper fundamentals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u45	I thank Mr Karel Šidl. The rapporteur is now announcing the floor, and I would like to ask the House's organizational department if he would try to reach one of the Vice-Presidents, because I would like to join the debate. The rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before the Chamber of Deputies dissolves and regional councils, including national questions, vote on this country alternately every month, so I would like to comment on the speech by my colleague Benda, whom I very much appreciate as a well-designed lawyer. However, since the legislative technical comments I have read have been delivered to me by the legislative department, and since I have also dealt with the press as a whole, I am convinced that all of them can be seen as legislative technical comments. But, of course, the House is a souvenir and is then able to decide by vote whether it will accept them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u47	Thank you, and I'll ask Vice President Gazdík to relieve me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u48	Vice-President Vojtěch Filip has applied for the floor with priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u49	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say in the third reading, I am not happy about what is ahead. I have dealt with the Šumava National Park Act since 1998 and have proposed it four times. What offended me most now before the third reading: the letter from President Ambrozek, who was a Member of this House, the Minister of the Environment, and I do not want to recall the result of his management of the environmental fund. And when he writes to me that it's so terribly important that all national parks are in this law 114, and he explains that there are more common things than there are differences in nature and landscape conservation than that particular issue, that's the first completely false argument. The second completely false argument is that, of course, the protection is the bigger it is. Please, from a legislative point of view, from the point of view of lawmaking, of course, the inclusion of all national parks in law 114 is far more dangerous for those parks than the separate park law. Mr. former colleague Ambrozek must know that, because once we open Law 114, among other things, each of you can propose a change to any paragraph of Law 114. I refer to the Constitutional Court's finding of what it is and what it is not a matter that would depart from the legislative initiative in the possibilities of this House. I note that the most sensitive thing about what is the subject of the park is, of course, the park's borders, and that, of course, I can change that by opening law 114 by amending the amendment. It will even be forced, because if the park borders, for example, go down the watercourse and the watercourse changes because they are the meanders of the river, so of course we're going to have to go from one plot of land to another, we're going to have to express ourselves in the law, or we're going to get out of the law and we're going to get into a dispute that relates to the particular boundary of the park, and we're even going to have another ownership ratio, because of course we're going to have to deal with the watercourse. That's not an easy thing to do. Coincidentally in Šumava National Park it is one of the smallest problems on the Vltava upper stream, because there are mostly land of the state. But it's not always like that. It's not always like that. I note that when we made the first draft of the Šumava National Park Act, we are aware of what Mr Šidlo said, that legislatively some decisions of the Šumava National Park administration can be declared invalid, because the legitimacy of the body, especially before 2000, is significantly, significantly weak. [[13.50 hours]] I note that at this point we are essentially dealing with whether we have general protection conditions in national parks to leave in law 114. I don't have a problem with that. But special protection in national parks is not part of this law. It belongs to separate laws on national parks. We are each different park, virtually. Two parks, declaring a separate law. Why did we do that? Because we were aware as legislators after the adoption of the Constitution of the Czech Republic in 1992, and I did not sit here that since 1993 the rights and obligations could not be determined otherwise than by law. In particular, those obligations relating to persons, natural persons, legal persons in the Czech Republic. That's the crucial thing. And by order of the government, don't be angry with me, at every decision of the Constitutional Court, as soon as you get into conflict with the law, contrary to the fact that an administrative body has ordered something and does not have a legal basis for it, there is no need for it to be fulfilled. From physical, legal persons. In that case, protection, specific environmental protection in the Šumava National Park is much more threatened if the park is not governed by law, and it is independent. Because in this respect, the risk we're taking here is far greater than it is, forgive me, the demagogical claim, the demagogical claim that if we put it into law 114, we finally won. It's not true. We will cause more problems for those who will be sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies than if we had finally said, this is a general provision which belongs to the general law on conservation of nature and landscape, and these are the specific protections that belong to the park, which has an area, forgive me, in a few kilometers, and these are the specific protections that belong to the park, which has 40,000 or more square kilometers. Please, we can't compare Labs sandstones to Sumava National Park. It's incomparable, it's pointless, and the argument that it belongs to a single law is, forgive me, really pointless. And whoever tells people that lies to them, and I don't know what the purpose is. And once again, I don't want to remind you of those again in this place, I would say very aggressive interpellations to the then environmental minister, Libor Ambrozek, when the minister was doing it and the environmental fund account ended in a catastrophic negative. I fundamentally refuse to have this argument here. I believe it is logical that individual parks will continue to be declared by a separate law, and Law 114 will be a general standard for us, which we will all follow and also in all parks in terms of general principles. But those special forms of protection don't really belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u50	I thank the Vice-President. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me just a brief response, ladies and gentlemen. The territory that we are so passionately arguing about here went into the property of our state in 1947. We haven't really been able to deal with him since. It was either a big problem safety or ecological or economic, very often also a social problem. Assuming we don't find an agreement on this one, then, in my opinion, there is nothing left to do but return the territory back to the administration of the Schwarzenberg family, which managed it gently and responsibly for 250 years, without bothering environmentalists, citizens or anyone else. Looks like somebody's been doing it for 250 years, and since then, none of us have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u52	Thank you, my colleague Kalousek, for keeping time on the point of fact. One more point in fact from Mr Marek Benda. Thanks again to my colleague Gazdík for replacing me. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u53	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Mr rapporteur, I am returning to what you claim to be legislative technical proposals. Article 3 proposes to repeal another law. That's not legislative technical. Don't be mad at me. Someone just forgot. I know it's probably a law, but I'm able to understand that the title of the law is added to the name of our press if there's been any amendment. It can be described as legislatively technical. But the repeal of the law really cannot be described as legislatively technical. And if that were the case, I propose, as a legislative technical amendment, to supplement the repeal of Law 112/2016 on electronic records of sales and 113/2016, the Act implementing electronic records of sales. And please, with this - now I hope Minister Babiš won't be mad at me, I'm just showing it as an absurdity that we're breaking the law here and pretending that it's a legislative technical change that I can cheer up there at third reading. If the rapporteur is serious, please take seriously my legislative technical proposal to repeal Law 112/2016 on electronic records of sales and 113/2016, the Act implementing the Act on electronic records of sales. Let's deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u54	I'm supposed to understand it that way, virtually. Mr rapporteur, that you did not set this as an example, but that this is a serious legislative technical proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u55	I firmly hope that the rapporteur will withdraw his legislative technical proposal in this area and recognise my argument that it is unvoting. But if he wants to insist that the House is to decide that the bill to abolish the law is voteable, then I am making this proposal. If he pulls it off, I'm not giving it off. If he doesn't withdraw it, I am giving this proposal and I ask the House to decide as well that, as a legislative technical change, we will vote to abolish other laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u56	Okay. The rapporteur understood that. Now I have no application for a debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. If not, I am done with the debate. This is excellent news for all of us. I am asking about the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur, after the third reading debate. The Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. There were so many demagogues and obvious efforts to bury the law that I wouldn't respond to it because I'd have to talk here for an hour. I want to say one thing. The amendment is not perfect, it does not solve all the environmental issues in national parks, but it is a way forward. And it's just not true that if the novel goes through that Sumava is dry, it's dry, or it's eaten by bark. It's not true. I am so often in Sumava today, and I dare to say that maybe more often than many of those people who voted there in the councils of both regions. But I am very humble, of course, to their opinion. This novel introduces a piece of stability that everyone has been calling for. In that part of the moratorium that we've been leaving there for 15 years, maybe even 20 years, let those things work, let our followers get back to them. And it's been dropped a few times. On the one hand, it is not possible to want a national park and on the other hand not to accept certain restrictions for people. I'm saying that no law will solve it if there's no goodwill on both sides, and it might be a little lacking today. Yes, it is a mistake, or it was a mistake, that they are part of the community's national park, and it is also possible, of course, to those municipalities, and it has already happened, to offer - this is what Mr Kučera spoke about - to leave the national park. I say it without any ironic breath. It's a perfectly rational proposal. Maybe a lot of things have happened in the past. Sometimes the minister was too green, the other side was too blue. I wouldn't go back to that past. Let's figure out what it is. Let's figure out what it's gonna be. We're not gonna change what happened. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] We weighed the compromises very carefully. It's not true that a person couldn't live there next to a grouse or next to a lynx or next to a wolf. It's possible. And I am convinced that it is a very tiny piece of territory where we want to let nature work the way it really works according to ancient principles, even though the rules are sometimes a little harsh and we may not like it. But -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u58	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Moreover, I will have to agree on this because there is an agreement between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs to interrupt the meeting at 14:00 until 12:00. 7. until 14:00 and I do not think that it is dignified in this environment for the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic to speak the final word. We have closed the debate, I think we have quite a chance of voting on Wednesday morning 13 at the latest. 7. the law, because then it's probably okay, maybe even calmer and more rational. And so I ask the presidents of the MPs if they want to change their position on the interruption at 14 o'clock. [[No.]] If not, then I must proceed according to § 54 para. 9, that is to say, on a proposal from the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, to interrupt the meeting at 14 o'clock under the original agreement and to ask you, Minister, to repeat your final words when this point is on Wednesday 13. 7. put to the vote. I'm sorry, but the noise here was so great that I had to interrupt you, otherwise, of course, I didn't want to abuse Section 61 of the Rules of Procedure Act. So in that regard, Minister, thank you. I wish you... Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u59	Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to wish you a nice weekend, many of you in Sumava. Mushrooms are growing. I'm coming, too. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-013-163.u60	I wish everyone a nice weekend and holiday days on 5th and 6th July and I look forward to seeing you on 12th July with the fact that I am interrupting the 48th meeting by 12th July until 14:00 on Tuesday 12. 7. is as the first point of the meeting item number 3, the right of assembly, that is, the law returned by the Senate, and then item number 4, the law of transgression, also returned by the Senate. Then we would continue with the first readings as supplemented, but these two points I am obliged to convey to you under the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you and goodbye.
