ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-024-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 73/2012 Coll., on substances that damage the ozone layer and on fluorinated greenhouse gases /house print 754/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal was to be made by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, but he will be represented by Minister Ťok. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-024-018.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly state, on behalf of Mr Brabec, the Government's bill amending Law No. 73/2012 Coll., on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on fluorinated greenhouse gases. [[18.00 hours]] Reason for submission and content of the bill. The bill adapts the Czech rule of law to the regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on fluorinated greenhouse gases. This Regulation aims to progressively reduce emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases, i.e. F-gases, by limiting the quantity of fluorinated greenhouse gases in installations placed on the market. The bill focuses on three fundamental areas of regulation. The first is to prevent the non-professional handling of fluorinated greenhouse gases in the operation of installations which are not airtight, in order to eliminate the risks associated with the possible leakage of hazardous substances. In practical terms, the legislation will affect the installation of air conditioning equipment in particular. Putting into service will only be possible by a qualified person and information proving this will have to be verifiable when purchasing the equipment and subsequently archived in the form of five years. The second agenda is the systematicisation of the certification process and the determination of the procedure for obtaining the certificate. In this context, evaluation bodies are required to collect and provide data more effectively in relation to the Ministry of the Environment. In view of the new obligations laid down in relation to the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases, the third theme is the legal anchoring of the position of the Czech Trade Inspection and the determination of its powers in the area governed by the existing law. In addition to the control, it will also be able to impose measures to remedy the identified deficiencies and to lead the administrative delinquency procedure. In view of the fact that this is an adaptation obligation imposed by European legislation, which will also contribute to the improvement of the environment and the safety of the population, there have been no significant conflict of opinion in the current process. The economic effects of the application of the Act vary according to the nature of the entity concerned and the state budget and budgets of the local authorities will not be burdened by the adoption of the Act. On the contrary, the Czech Republic will avoid potentially threatening sanctions by the institutions of the European Union by adapting the European regulation correctly and in a timely manner. The total costs of the business sector for the installation of non-hermetically sealed equipment filled with fluorinated greenhouse gases will be estimated to amount to 100 million. CZK annually and touches mainly representatives of the food industry and other industries using industrial cooling. The operators of building air conditioning systems, service cooling providers, air conditioning and fire safety operators through chemical firefighting will also be concerned. Approximately 50 miles. it will be necessary to invest on a one-off basis in the installation of fluorinated greenhouse gas leakage systems for thousands of existing installations. It can therefore be concluded that the submitted government bill does not, in its entirety, significantly increase the financial or administrative burden on business entities or public authorities. The proposal went through the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies on 3 June this year. On 30 June, the proposal was discussed in the Committee on the Environment, which, in its resolution No 108, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill without amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-024-018.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 754/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-024-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As has already been said, the Committee on the Environment discussed this amendment at its meeting on 30 July 2016 and adopted the following resolution. Firstly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal. Secondly, it instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, and, fourthly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the legislation of the Department of the Chamber of Deputies. As has already been said, there have been no amendments or amendments. So much on my part about everything at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-024-018.u5	Thank you, and I will ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. I am opening up a general debate and asking if anyone is applying for it. I see no one, if that is the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the rapporteur or the appellant wants to take the final floor at this time. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate and asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. Here too, I ask the appellant or rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. In that case, thank you and I finish second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
