ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u1	221. Donation program 21. Training centres, for 2016, provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended /German press 840/ This material will also be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the proposal for a subsidy programme of the Training Centre, hereinafter referred to as COP. The Ministry of Agriculture, within the meaning of the education concept of the Ministry of Agriculture for the period 2015-2020, submits for approval a new national subsidy programme No. 21. Training centres for 2016, provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended. There is currently an increase in the requirements for skilled labour in agriculture by employers. It is essential to ensure such solutions to ensure the sustainability of the agrarian sector and to strengthen its competitiveness. In its concept, the Ministry of Agriculture defines support for the creation of training centres in order to familiarise pupils and students of secondary and higher vocational schools with the latest mechanisms and technologies in the following fields of education: agriculture, forestry, horticulture, winery, veterinary medicine, food and fisheries. For the reasons set out above, it is necessary to support the equipment of training centres by quality teaching aids of an investment nature in order to improve the quality of vocational training of pupils and students of secondary and higher vocational schools, thereby improving the professional skills necessary for the pursuit of the profession. The subsidy programme is designed for publication in 2016, the total amount of funding for the implementation of the national subsidy programme from the Ministry of Agriculture is expected to amount to 50 million. Kč. Aid for the acquisition of investment aids will amount to 90 per cent of the expenditure shown to have been incurred and the participation of training centres is proposed at 10 per cent. Training centres - schools with the above fields of education were selected by the selection committee at national level according to the selected selection criteria based on regional nominations. The Commission was composed of representatives of the following organizations: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, Agrarian Chambers of the Czech Republic, Association of Regions, Agricultural Union of the Czech Republic and the Society of Young Agrarians of the Czech Republic. The programme does not constitute increased State budget entitlements and will be financed from the resources allocated in 2016 to national subsidies. I beg you to support this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u3	Thank you, Minister. The House Press discussed the agricultural committee whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 840/1. I ask now that the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Ladislav Velebný, should take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and also make a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u4	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister has informed us in detail about House press 840, I just want to say to you that the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Mr Šír and my person's intelligence report, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies a subsidy programme 21. Training centres, for 2016, provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, approve. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the outcome of this press at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Vice-President, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u6	Good day, colleagues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few words about this material, which concerns ensuring quality teaching aids. The word "quality teaching aids" already evokes a little bit that it should rather be a material that should be submitted by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because if we systematically enter education so that there is always something in general that someone is discussing in a particular subject that, for example, the Ministry of Industry and Trade would create grant titles for aids for engineering secondary schools, the Ministry of the Environment would produce or subsidize teaching aids in the field of environmental education, etc. etc., I think we would probably agree that this is not too conceptual. [[17,00 hours]] That is why I am convinced that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and then, of course, the founders should come up with this. In principle, their founders should speak to the schools by means of aids. We have recently strengthened the budgets of the regions by 3.5 billion, and I think that this region, if they care about this type of education, could pay more attention if there are any shortcomings. This proposal extends grant titles from so-called. national resources that have been talked about a lot lately. I'd like to say something about the existing ones when we're opening a new grant title here. At its own or at one of its meetings, the Agricultural Committee recommended to the Minister of Agriculture that all unused expenditure in the calendar year in question, that is to say, the money it has budgeted, but it does not spend on directing the funds under individual subsidy titles primarily to support livestock production. And if you look at the grant titles and strengthen them, you'll find that the Minister of Agriculture didn't respect the need for animal production very much. But what he respected most was the maintenance and restoration of the cultural heritage of the countryside, where it arose - I call it a big grizzly bear, when in the past the Chamber of Deputies was often criticized for the fact that individual Members in the state budgets had won support here or onde for less or more community-friendly activities. This is where the program was created under the subsidy titles, which the Minister of Agriculture increased from 40 million to 400. I call it chapels for work. Not that it would not be necessary, but within the Department of Agriculture there are other priorities and subsidy programmes for rural renewal, or grant programmes that create the regions themselves or other ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development etc., we certainly will also cover this area, in a situation where agriculture is facing a number of other problems, especially drought, in this situation we are strengthening the reconstruction of chapels in the area of subsidy programmes. This is the biggest priority of our grant programs this year. Therefore, I do not think, in connection with what is happening here, that it is in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture that a subsidy programme must be created for the purchase of individual machinery and equipment into schools set up by the Central Bohemia Region. What I would definitely support, and it would be a system solution of long-term, instead of buying new modern machines for individual schools at the moment rather long-term support various practices for private companies so that students can learn on new machines in practice, and not to have to buy an exceptional grant title from the Ministry of Agriculture machines new and similar. I think it would be more systematic to support practice in private companies than to buy new machines in high school. Therefore, I will not support this proposal for a newly created grant title.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u7	I thank Mr Bendl. With priority rights, the Minister, Mr Herbert Pavera after him. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u8	Thank you. I would like to respond to some of the facts put forward by Mr Bendl here. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, as former Minister of Agriculture, you should certainly know that during the year, you will give all the funding to cover the subsidies, that is what we are doing. But you can't come up with an extra grant title just like that. All grant titles that we have notified and which we have prepared for this year also newly, which is grant title number 19 and 20, so we have all grant titles fully financially covered and are heading for animal production. And today we have come to the brink, where it is also very complicated by farmers, not only by the Ministry and the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, to invent further, new grant titles for animal production, which give some logic and are not too great an administrative burden for applicants as well as for the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and the Ministry of Agriculture. So the challenge that has been raised here to put funds on national grant titles, it is fulfilled. All proposals for grant titles this year have a 100% envelope, which is not identified. We're going to the maximum ceilings that we can get into agriculture and primary livestock production. So, let's say, to the controversy, if we can put the 50 million crowns somewhere else in the framework of the notified grant titles, I'm saying that it's just not possible this year. I see the strong need here to have really well-defined quality training centres, which will be supported by the state in the long term and where we will increase the level of pupils. Of course, I recognize that, it is mainly on the margins and at the Ministry of Education to do this in the long term and in the system, however, when I see the situation that is here, I try to get at least these thirty key training centres to start financially and increase the level of these facilities for the sector. As for the subsidy title 16 mentioned, the restoration of small cultural heritage in the countryside was created for several reasons. The first was that after the end of the programming period of the Rural Development Programme 2007 to 2013, a certain white spot remained on the map, when the mayors themselves came and said: We would need to cover some types of investment after the completed programming period of the PRV. That's why this grant title was created here. And it is not in the amount of 400 million, but in the amount - the reality of this year is 240 million. Furthermore, I would say that this is also the fulfilment of the coalition agreement. The Coalition Treaty, in its second point in the chapter of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, speaks of the fact that we want to strengthen the development of rural areas and rural areas as such. And the last thing you mentioned, practice with private companies, well, that's been going on for two years. Two years is support, and we contribute part of the funding to high school and school students who go to practice for private companies, so we finance part of the cost of their remuneration within such practice. So that's what we have in place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u9	Thank you, Minister. Another duly registered member is Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u10	Nice and pleasant evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I'm just going to briefly respond to the submitted subsidy program. As was said here by my colleague Velebný, the agricultural committee supported this subsidy title and, of course, I also raised my hand for this subsidy title and raised it up. At present in the Chamber of Deputies, of course, I say that this is not a completely systemic solution, because, as has already been said here, it should be addressed both through the region and through the Ministry of Education. But, okay, if we want to help young people go into our agriculture with well-equipped experience, then of course, it's nice that the money goes to the 30 centers that will raise future farmers. And I believe that most of them will remain in agriculture, because I think that even though the state does not treat young farmers quite well and does not support them as it might and should, in order to have a greater appetite for agriculture, I believe that even here, this money can contribute to the fact that young people who will be educated in those schools will still remain in agriculture and work in the field. Because we need them. We do not need large companies working there to manage agriculture from somewhere in Wenceslas, but in order for farmers in the countryside to be especially young and smaller, who will take care of the land, to sow exactly the rotational practices, as our grandfathers and grandfathers did in order for the land to be protected and the land to remain there. Because we all know that lately we've lost so many tons of quality agricultural land that it's already gone irretrievably. So, yes, it's unsystemic, but I'm sure we'll support it in TOP 09, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u11	Now, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl - proper? Excuse me, in that case, Mr Ladislav Velebný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u12	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, fellow Members, I very much appreciate that the key priority of the Ministry of Agriculture is to ensure the sustainability of the agricultural sector and to strengthen its competitiveness. Especially these days, when we know what the situation in the agricultural market is. Therefore, in order to achieve this condition, it is necessary to take all steps, including this subsidy title, which the Ministry submits. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u13	Thank you. Now with a proper application by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u14	Thank you for the floor. I have to fix the minister, because the subsidy program 16 really doesn't have 240 million, but 400. Minister, 400. This is how the agricultural committee approved it on your proposal - CZK 400 million. I just point out that the Ministry of Regional Development wants to give CZK 200 million to repair municipal roads this year, for example. So I would venture to say that the greater priority in the Czech Republic in terms of municipalities is the repair of local roads, pavements and similar to the repair of chapels. But you want to put twice as much on the chapels, or this government gives twice as much on local communications. Those are your priorities. And I'm not talking about the animal production anymore. Originally there was 40 million crowns, you raised it to 360. That's why I call it a big grizzly bear. Because it is certainly not a municipal priority that is now worrying in the vast majority of the community. But apparently you have enough money in your budget, so you can afford it. After all, the 100 million crowns that go to support counseling are also money I could imagine being somewhere else. But you're right that you're already on the ceiling of the possible and that you support such things. If you ask the farmers if there is better CZK 100 million in counselling and education, which is grant title 9, or if they are used to really support, for example, what we have been talking about in the long term, what you have not yet come up with, and that is drought and the issue of maintaining water in the countryside, etc., we will see this when we talk about the funds that you will allocate to these far more important things than the repair and reconstruction of the chapels. I'm not saying that there is no need, but I think that regional and municipal budgets are able to manage this, perhaps in cooperation with some ministries, with the Ministry of Culture and so on. I think agriculture has much bigger problems that I've named here. Again - I think you should focus more on the systemic resolution of the existence of secondary education at the moment. 50 million crowns to buy new machines... I think the Ministry of Education should rather advise you on how better to invest the money so that those young people really stay there. At this point, rather - to the Margo colleagues Herbert Pavera, who said it very nicely here, that those young people who are entering agriculture need some perspective. And we can't get them a new machine in high school. We'll provide them with a lower degree of bureaucracy, even a chance to catch up on agriculture. And the steps that we approve here today and daily are more about supporting big companies. Young people who come from agricultural schools have little chance of catching up on the market anymore. I think it is a much bigger problem of Czech agriculture, but that is probably at another point in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u15	Thank you. This has so far been the last duly entered into the general debate. I remind the Minister that if he wants to read the shortening of the deadline, he must do so now in the general debate before I close it. Shortening of the time limit must be loaded. With a point of fact, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't really do it, I have to respond to this. Those are Mr. Bendl's low-downs, that's incredible. In 26 years after the revolution, there was no technique for agricultural schools. The Shirts - I get it - they just didn't have the money and the Ministry of Education never gave it. This is the first time I've had a chance to touch a high-quality teaching aid, and it's called into question here. That's incredible. And to say that the applicability of graduates of agricultural schools is zero, I consider that impertinence. For absolute insolence. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Milan Urban, followed by Mr Petr Bendl, made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It doesn't work for me either, and I don't want to talk about agricultural schools, but we say here quite often that we need technical education, and let's say that the agricultural system belongs to it, and that we need to introduce a new system, whether we call it dual education or otherwise, a system where the high school is much closer, even if possible, to the particular company. This is what we need in the Czech Republic. We need this for the industry that feeds this country, 31 percent of gross domestic product roughly is industry. We don't have professionally educated craftsmen, we don't have enough technical high school professions, we don't have enough college technical professions. Unfortunately, the system would also need to be upgraded somehow in order to actually achieve dual education. Hardly by the state buying those companies machines. Hardly by trying to get them to have the same equipment that companies have. This probably would not have paid the State and would never have been able to catch up on the progressive change of technology. The system must be working differently. I think it would be better to look for a system procedure for the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Schools, as it is necessary to look for technical schools. This is some exception I can probably understand, but it's not the right way to buy machines for agricultural schools. Don't be mad at me. This isn't the way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Bendl, followed by Mr Kováčik, followed by Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u20	I've already cooled off a little bit, but for the margo of what my colleague said earlier - I'm just stressing again, she's gonna buy The Department of Agriculture to individual schools of modern machinery and in two years it will be obsolete, instead of looking for a system solution that connects the functioning of secondary agricultural schools with the private sector, so that the students can get to the most modern one that is currently appearing on the market. It's just so flashy at first glance and very nice: they're gonna have new machines, they're gonna learn on them, and so on, that's fantasy. But it doesn't have to happen with practice. And it is better to support existing practice, because it is difficult for those private companies to marry new students, devote themselves to them, devote time to them, etc., to assign people to it. I would consider this a system solution with which the Minister of Education or the Minister of Education should come up, perhaps in cooperation with the Minister of Agriculture or in cooperation with the Minister of Industry and Trade. I would consider that the right gesture to support. That's a $50 million high five. But we learned why. It's just money for everything. We're already on the ceiling. So we still have $50 million left to buy machines. That's how it is. A hundred million for counseling, that's that kind of money, it's never been there. And ask farmers how much it's superkey to them unless we're directly financing some organizations. [[17.20 hours]] That's a $50 million high five. But we learned why. It's just money for everything. We're already on the ceiling. So we still have $50 million left to buy machines. That's how it is. A hundred million for counseling, that's that kind of money, it's never been there. And ask farmers how much it's superkey to them unless we're directly financing some organizations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u21	With another factual remark, Mr Kováčik, Mr Opálka, Mrs Dobešová, followed by Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I totally share the indignation of my colleague Dobešová, who, as a long-time director of the agricultural school and school, knows what she is talking about. But I didn't mean to. I just wanted to say that we remember some of us when school and practice were connected so much that the one who came out as a teacher or a graduate of a secondary agricultural school or, for example, a graduate in the field of agricultural machinery repairers and other fields that have worked and functioned to this day, really knew something, learned for his time on modern machines, modern teaching aids, and we lost all that. Not just in agriculture. We've lost all this through a rebuttal approach to apprentice education, generally to technical education, and now we're crying over spilled milk. I think that everything that will help, even if it is just a drop in the sea, although it is possible that the aids will become morally obsolete for some time, but look at what these people are learning now, how morally, technically, and I do not know how much of the materially outdated teaching aids of this type in those schools and schools, let's compare it with the interest that these disciplines are in, compare it with the need for agriculture, if it is to be competitive, to have competitive education as well. I clearly think that, even if it is only a partial solution, we need to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u23	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Opálka, Mrs Dobešová, followed by Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, about the past. Whether we criticize it less or more, the industry has been linked to engineering and teaching sites, secondary schools, and agriculture with agriculture, health care and health care. And there were school goods in agricultural schools. And here we should think about why, for the economic reasons of the region, probably other founders before, they destroyed one school farm after another. The school farm had a plan, the production was taken into account to the level that was given. And I will give you one example when my colleague Bendl spoke about the need to make more use of practice in agricultural holdings. In agricultural schools, sons or daughters of farmers study for the most part, and these farms are often watered down. So this farm won't let this guy ever get to some milk milking machine, a technique that's connected to animal production because he would have dragged an infection there. So they go upstairs in the glass bleachers and see how it works. That's how far we've come, sweethearts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u25	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u26	Thank you. I can really confirm what was said here a minute ago. Agricultural enterprises do not accept students into some breedings, and if they let someone in, they must guarantee that they will not visit any other breeding for the next 48 hours and have not visited even 48 hours before. It's not easy. Even the directors of these businesses don't go to pig farming, for example, because they would carry some viruses. This means that the idea of going into practice is nice, but in the school economy it was important because it did not fulfil the economic function but the educational function. And unfortunately, the regions have been disrupting these economies in recent years. And I experienced eight years ago when I was offered to screen cows because the farm is cancelled. Meaning, is that the connection of the school to the practice? Is that the fact that a student is supposed to see new techniques and pig breeding after graduating? I'm really surprised. And to the Margo that the tech will be out of date in two years? Come on, OK. So we leave old tractors from '80s, they don't get old, they're old, and that's it. Every technique goes out of date. We could talk about the data projector, the interactive board, any teaching aid. That argument won't hold. Mr. Bendl can talk nicely, but he doesn't know anything about it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u27	Thank you, ma'am. With another factual remark, Mr Kořenek, followed by Mr Urban, followed by the Minister with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u28	Thank you. Please, if you've read this, the Department of Agriculture wants to put 50 million of its resources into vocational education so that some educational resources can be bought in. Whether it's a tractor or anything. The Ministry of Education does not provide long-term investment funds for these matters. We called for it. I think that if we want to support vocational education and we want to support it, then that's a good thing. The question is whether another system tool can be created in the future, but at the moment I would very much like other ministries to find resources in their budget and help equip vocational schools with the necessary tools needed for training. It would be very pleasant and I think that education would benefit in general and, above all, training. You can't teach in theory and on old things, because these people are completely useless in practice. I would argue for a little indulgence and, on the contrary, I would appreciate the Ministry's efforts to support my segment. I think that when I dealt with the agrarian chamber and with the representatives, they very much call it the effort of the Ministry of Agriculture to support vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. With a point of fact, Mr Milan Urban, after him with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u30	But I can overlook it, too, because I can buy ten harvesters for rape, that's about all you're gonna do for the $50 million. But I'm just saying, it's not a system solution. So give Mládek five billion so he can do the same. Do you understand? We need to connect technical education to companies. We need to connect agricultural education to companies. Let them learn how to ride the harvester at Jurečka's if I say it in a simple way. Because that farmer will always have more modern technology than schools, because the state is not so productive, rich that it can be enough in technology and investment in those technologies. That's just the way it is. I understand, Madame Vice-President, that you are fighting for your school. I understand that. Basically, I'm saying I'm able to overlook it, but it's just not systemic. And the Minister of Industry and Trade does not have enough resources to say, in the words of Mr Kořenko, so I will release from my budget x. Because it's about 50 departments of the Department of Agriculture in terms of employment, performance, and I don't know everything. So from this point of view, of course, it's a relative little thing, but it's systemically wrong. So it may be worth discussing not only agricultural education in the middle, technical but also in other areas. About engineering and all that. Unfortunately, it doesn't work there, and there's no such grant title. The Minister of Finance does not release funds for the same solution offered by the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Industry and Trade just doesn't have that kind of volume. And I think this needs to be dealt with at the level of the ministries of education, industry, agriculture, and it's supposed to have some systemic character. This is fun that we can approve here, but it doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, Minister. Can we come over and study for the harvester?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u32	Thank you. I would say to Mr Bendl through Mr President: you know, I have long left your various statements to rest. But today, when you walk among the agricultural public, legendary rumours are going around today, when Minister Bendl came among them, talking about soil corrosion, saying that a sow is supposed to have 37 piglets on one litter, and he spoke very deeply about a lot of other things, but completely out of place. It is good, former Minister through the President, to know what I am talking about. I'm in those high schools on a regular basis. I'm even a graduate of one of those schools. And I see what tools your students are learning today. I beg you nicely, the idea that a student will come after ninth grade to a first, second year of high school or a teaching school and we will send him to any private subject and put him there for a machine worth 5 to 12 million crowns, and let him teach it is a completely misguided idea. The student needs somewhere to learn the basic principles of machine operation and he can't learn it on machines from the '70s, for heaven's sake. So we put the money on things like lathes, like agricultural machinery, stable equipment, lab equipment, equipment for embryotransfers. There's really no private company that's gonna let you do that. There are basic things you need to learn at school. I understand it's not completely systemic, I understand. But a hand to the heart. There are political parties here in the House, which were practically all in the leadership of the regions. How many regions do they allocate money? And they are the founder of secondary schools and there is the main responsibility for supporting secondary vocational schools. I know the only country that has put large sums into agricultural education, and it is Vysočina Region, where they have made a new multifunctional stable for 60 million crowns. Then there are other regions that put some small money in there. But then there's a lot of counties that don't put any money in there except for fixing the grooves and roofs. So I'm trying to figure out the market gap here, or in this system, at least within my department. And to have 30 selected centers with which we really mean and long-term cooperation to really get upstairs, to make students sound like really good experts. That's the effort of my material. Thank you for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u33	This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I'm asking who else is applying for a word. There's no such person. I am therefore ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: No.]] It's not. We will therefore proceed to a debate in detail, which is also not reported to. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: No.]] Not interested. I therefore ask the rapporteur to re-present the motion for a resolution on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approves the subsidy programme 21. Training centres, for 2016, provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-005-221.u35	Thank you. I've summoned our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 181. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 125, against 4. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
