ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u1	1. Information of government members on expected halt of construction of roads, motorways and railways The first registered with priority rights is Minister Brabec. I'm asking the plaintiffs if they want to perform one more time. It's not like that. Not a colleague of Laudat nor a colleague of Stanjura. In this respect, then, the first speaker in the debate is the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok will be ready. Then I have another logged in. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u2	Thanks for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, originally I had the speech for two hours, then I cut it a few times, now it's relatively short. We also took advantage of the possibility of handing out some facts on the table, which, in my opinion, are clear, irreversible, there is a lot of evidence on them, the numbers are talking, and most importantly, they are the facts that have happened, that is, they are the things that have happened, not the things that could happen. In the meantime, I am glad that colleagues have acted because it is possible to react. I must say that my colleague Laudát did not for the first time and not for the last time so blue that thanks to his colleague Stanjur and Kováčik we got a little bit into real life where we are at the moment. Allow me a few dates to begin with, or a little history doesn't kill anyone. But believe me, it's gonna be short, and it's not gonna be an excuse for those past governments, as it was said here. It'll just be a statement of facts. As has been said here several times, the first infringement with the Czech Republic, i.e. the infringement procedure or the transposition of the relevant European directive, in this case the EIA directive, which is an assessment of the environmental impact of the project, was actually launched in 2006. Thanks to the inability of previous governments, this procedure has reached a point where the Czech Republic was sentenced by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2010 for failing to comply with the requirements of the EIA Directive, and the ongoing process culminated in autumn 2012 with an agreement to merely postpone the problem, with the European Commission ending the infringement procedure only on condition that it will initiate further and even more extensive proceedings, which it did in the spring of 2013. So it's not like my colleague Stanjura said, that it's basically the ODS government, virtually. The government, where the ODS had its Minister of the Environment - at the beginning of Drobil, then Chalupa - was only involved for three months. This has actually been the case since 2010, when it was negotiated and negotiated unsuccessfully. [[12.20 hours]] So many negotiations followed that led nowhere. Although there was a rather wide working group consisting of many departments, it was completely disbanded, divided and based on the information I have from the permanent representation of the Czech Republic in Brussels, it was usually a disgrace to the negotiations with the European Commission because it was uncontrolled and without the ability to agree on something constructively. On 21 January 2014, following negotiations with the European Commission in Brussels, the European Commission identified the proposal that the Czech Republic has put in place as insufficient and called for a rapid and definitive remedy to 1. 1. 2015. On January 29, a new government came, including the Minister of the Environment, and I put this matter on the table about February 5 or 6. I don't think even the outgoing minister Weird didn't give it to me at the time that it was something extra important, and I didn't get to it until the moment it really started to show that the thing was going to be very, very fast. I will now skip the meeting, skip a few months where we held dozens of negotiations, and on the working line we got at the beginning of April and we know that the European Commission's Infringement College will confirm a so-called reasoned opinion on 15 April, which will dramatically damage the Czech Republic, because they said they saw this as a legitimate step, as the Czech Republic received a formal notice in April 2013. There has been a problem since 2010 and actually since 2006, as much time as you want. I will just repeat, and there is x of evidence and arguments, one can ask anyone from the European Commission anywhere, certainly colleagues, that, in the event of a reasoned opinion at the time, the Czech Republic would be threatened with an immediate cessation of the possibility of drawing funding from European funds under the 2007-2013 programming period. In total, investments in transport and infrastructure buildings amounting to more than 100 billion were at risk. Crowns. Furthermore, the financing of many otherwise trouble-free buildings was threatened, not only by the state but also by the private. Moreover, the correct transposition of the directive was one of the so-called general preconditions for drawing funds from European funds in the new programming period 2014-2020. This was an amount of approximately 600 billion. CZK and the Commission have repeatedly made reference to the possibility of starting the drawing of funds in the new programming period by fulfilling this preliminary condition. Following further heated and pervasive negotiations, the threat of giving a reasoned opinion, from which we were literally separated, was managed to turn us away with the help of Commissioner Jourová and other people. We were dealing with Commissioner Potočnik back then. And now, just in time for history, so I don't hang around for long. On 3 September 2014, the draft amendment of the relevant law was approved by the government, sent to the House. December was approved in the House, 17th transferred to the Senate, 14 January returned with amendments from the Senate, 10 February passed again the law, i.e. overruled by the Chamber of Deputies, 24 was signed by the President and 1. 4. 2015 amendment 39/2015 was effective. And now, even after the law's effect... I know colleagues don't care when they're so excited about the criticism, they probably don't care what I say. But I don't take it personally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u3	I understand, Minister. I'll ask the House for peace again. We are at a meeting that has been requested for this point. The ministers, including the Prime Minister, are ready to answer, so please let them answer your questions. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. And now, please, to the steps, because it's important. Even after the effectiveness of the law, or during the preparation of the law, there were dozens of negotiations during one year. I only gave Mr. Laudát part of the meeting in response to the interpellation. There were dozens of negotiations at all levels that were with the Commission, after the official level, and after the political level, and the amendment was negotiated perhaps most dramaticly as a definite amendment, which any law I have been preparing so far, and I dare say it can be compared with the laws that have been negotiated with the Commission as the most complex, if not the most complex. Of course, there was not only the Ministry of Environment in the negotiations, but there was the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Regional Development, of course. There were teams of government lawyers and, of course, they were involved in this as well as the Resort organizations, such as the Road and Motorway Directorate and others, because they were involved. There were many, you remember, round tables with the Union of Industry and so on. And thank you for saying that there were real negotiations and that there were dozens of them. Even after the effectiveness of the law from 1. 4. 2015 - and here I would just like to explain and respond to the fact that we have done nothing after that - which has suspended the ongoing infringement, and so the danger that the Czech Republic will irreversibly lose its ability to draw huge funds has continued to be very intensively negotiated with the European Commission, especially the Directorate-General for the Environment. Of course, and I'm about to get there, it was clear all along that there would be a difference in the assessment of EIA projects under Pre-accession Act No. 244/1992 and projects under the newer law 100/2001. The aim of the negotiations was from the outset so that the oldest projects could be assessed in the same way as in the model that we have successfully negotiated with the European Commission for already built transport projects from the Operational Programme Transport 1, i.e. 23 projects for almost 50 billion. CZK, which also had an old EIA, but were already built, and where the European Commission did not want to finance the projects from the outset precisely because they had an old EIA. Thus, on the basis of an individual assessment of each project by the Commission and any additional measures. This was not initially excluded by the European Commission. In addition, together with the other ministries, we have prepared a clear methodology which justified the fact that a large majority of the European Commission's objections to the quality of the assessment of the old EIA evaluations can be successfully supplemented in the context of follow-up proceedings, i.e. territorial or construction proceedings. Even this argument was initially accepted by the European Commission with the view that such a solution could be acceptable to the Czech Republic. Sometime in October or November 2015, a breakthrough was probably due to information that flows to the European Commission and, above all, to the Directorate-General of the Environment, and it is no secret, it is easy to prove, from NGOs, which actually have a perfect overview of the legislative and technical state of preparation of almost all planned infrastructure actions and which share information with the European Commission, I would say live. Sometime in October or November, I think it was around 20 October, the European Commission told us that once we had issued even one valid binding opinion for projects with the old EIA under Act No. 244, the suspended inflation rate may be shifted to the next stage, i.e. the so-called reasoned opinion, which would result in the immediate cessation of the drawdown of funds, not only of the Transport Operational Programme. All the more intensively, we continued our negotiations at all political and official levels, resulting in a preliminary agreement that a group of key projects could be implemented by a so-called accelerated negotiation. Of course, we have repeatedly given information to the government. And, among other things, we have repeatedly informed the House of Interpellation, so I refuse to lie about anything. It was live - negotiations with the European Commission in this gradual guard. We subsequently proposed a procedure for such an accelerated discussion to the European Commission, but additional requirements were added on its part, which the European Commission insisted on after the next series of negotiations. After their evaluation, it was said that meeting such requirements in a number of, or, we fear, most cases could take longer than preparing a new EIA and it would not have the necessary certainty to ensure funding by the European Union. As a result, further negotiations continued at a political level, which was among others involved. also the Prime Minister, the result of which is a proposal for a quick amendment to Act No. 100, which translates a new form of the European EIA Directive, which also allows for an exceptional procedure, accelerated procedure in justified cases. [[12.30 hours]] However, my colleagues, I would like to emphasise one thing that fits in here, but which is very important that during the entire time of negotiations the Ministry of Environment and regional authorities have successfully issued valid binding opinions for dozens of projects that have an EIA opinion according to Act No. 100, also the old one, which originally did not accept by the European Commission, which was issued to date almost 150, and others are ready for issue. You have a list in your materials, and you will see if we are being accused today of not negotiating any exceptions, so of course we have negotiated exceptions precisely for Act No. 100, where there are hundreds of projects, are worth tens, maybe hundreds of billions of crowns, will be gradually verified and verified. And that is the procedure that the European Commission completely rejected at the beginning of the negotiations, and we have managed to negotiate this procedure. Again, I say that it has also managed to finance old transport projects from the European Commission for almost CZK 50 billion. And that, folks, is reality! That's not a conditional thing to do. That's just what happened, and that's what happened, and those opinions are being issued. And they are issued successfully and the projects are implemented. I don't want to hold up the list. It's in there. Now, please, just the myths. Myth, that's Law No. 39/2015 Sb. is responsible for the radical decline in construction season 2015, 2016 or. Come in. He will certainly comment more on this, Minister Took, but still. First of all, I would like to say that the Czech Republic, unfortunately in the EU, and perhaps not only there, holds an unfortunate primate in the length of construction preparation. The preparation of transport structures in the Czech Republic takes 15 years, but we have events whose preparation takes 20 years without kicking into the ground. There are more reasons, the Minister of Transport will talk about them as well as about the real impact of possible delays as a result of the EIA. However, the reality is that the verification of the opinion pursuant to Act No. 244/1992 Coll. absolutely does not affect the construction season 2016, because the vast majority of buildings carried out this year already have a building permit issued. What will be the impact on the construction season 2017, will be discussed by Mr.Tok, but of course these are the actions that should be dealt with by a speedy consultation within the framework of the amendment to Act No. 100. Law No 39/2015 Sb. On the contrary, it enabled the financing of transport buildings from the Operational Programme Transport and saved drawdown throughout the programming period, and I have already said that it was an endangered CZK 100 billion. Among other things, without the adoption of this law, the current construction season 2015 and partly 2014 could not be as successful as it was, because it was because the EU was finally satisfied with the transposition of the directive into the Czech legal system after ten years, so it allowed us to draw out the money. The current decline, which is on the construction market, and will be discussed by Mr Tók, is the result of the dynamics of operational programmes, i.e. the transition to the new programming period. And once again, the vast majority of projects with opinions issued pursuant to Act No. 100/2001 Sb., i.e. hundreds of public and private investors' projects worth hundreds of billions. If, then, Mr Laudát, by your means, Mr President, quotes me in my statements in the discussion of this law that it will be built, so will it be built and built, Mr colleague, by your means, Mr President. That means there was no blockage of the buildings. We're dealing with a problem with actions 244, there's been a problem all along, but the hundreds that were the most threatened, we saved and we're negotiating for more. The second myth that the infringement was not started until 2013, is responsible only to the official, or mainly to our government, were not negotiated exceptions. I already told you, the amendment to Act No. 39/2015 Sb. has been negotiated with the European Commission for more than a year and the negotiating team has indeed been very broad. You know, everyone's involved in political negotiations. We've asked a whole bunch of people to help us in these negotiations. I must say that only Mr Telička has joined the MEPs, otherwise we have not received any responses. Of course, MEPs were addressed to all parties. Today, some MEPs are criticizing us for how soft we were, but frankly, there was no reaction on their part. We have, of course, involved our Euro Commissioner, we have also involved other Euro Commissioner of other friendly countries. Letters and petitions with a request to the European Commission were also written by the chieftains, many mayors, those petitions had thousands of votes, and I, if you don't mind, will only allow you to quote briefly the reply to one such letter that came from the European Commissioner for the Environment Vella: "It is undoubtedly regrettable that the Czech Republic has allowed so many opinions on environmental impact assessment for transport projects that have become obsolete without immediately implementing them. This is now a problem for almost all transport projects designed for the new financial period in the Czech Republic, not only for road projects that you refer to. Pursuant to the revised EIA Directive as of May 2015, Member States will be required to verify whether the conclusions or decisions of the EIA are up to date before the authorisation is issued. In this sense, there will be the possibility for Member States to establish a time frame for the validity of the EIA conclusions or decisions. Although we have understood the functioning of the Czech multi-stage system, in other Member States measures are taken in the sense that the EIA is regularly updated, and there are mechanisms to avoid these problems. The Czech Republic is the only Member State that proposes such old EIA opinions. The problem is aggravated by the fact that the Czech EIA Act was not in compliance with EU legislation, a significant part of the last decade when the EIA opinions were written and when these projects were allowed. Czech law is only in compliance with EU law from 1 April 2015.' Finally, he says: "It is important for European law to be respected, as these are rules approved by all Member States. If activity is to be financed from EU resources, it must respect EU law. This applies both to financial procedures such as public procurement and environmental procedures. Environmental impact assessment is an internationally accepted approach to consider the different environmental impacts of a specific project.' That, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer to one of the letters written by one of the captains. Robin Böhnisch wrote a similar letter, the senators wrote, the mayors wrote, and these are the reactions of the European Commission. And they're very, very consistent reactions, and they're still the same. In other words, if you want our money from us, accept our rules. I gave you a list of projects that were financed by this, including projects saved from the Transport I operational programme, which we can once again consider saved. Myth No. 3 that Act 39/2015 introduces retroactivity into the Czech legal system. Facts: The so-called true retroactivity, when the legislation operates retroactively before its effective date, is inadmissible in the Czech legal environment and therefore the transitional provisions of Act No. 39/2015 Sb. This retroactivity, of course, is excluded. However, it is in line with the generally applicable legal principles, which the caselaw of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic has also established that the new procedural law, and the EIA Act is a procedural act, applies from the date of entry into force of the new legislation and for proceedings initiated before the date of its entry into force, by maintaining the legal effects of the acts which occurred in the proceedings before the date of entry into force of the legislation. In other words, he confirms this also the position of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Czech Republic, which judged, for example, the problem of the Znojmo bypass and which judged in the following way: "The purpose of the assessment of the effects of the project on the environment is its assessment in terms of the degree of environmental knowledge achieved. Reflection of current knowledge about the territory and the available possibilities of environmental protection is an essential principle of legislation. Clearly, then, the degree of knowledge achieved could have been different after 11 years from the issue of the original position. The fact that Law No 244/1992 Coll. contrary to the current regulation, it has not explicitly limited the validity of the opinions on the assessment of the effects of the project on the environment, nor can it alter that conclusion.' [[12.40 hours]] What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That even the Supreme Administrative Court in the Czech Republic was simply judging that there is a problem with the old EIA opinions, which are 15 and 20 years old. And I am on my way to the conclusion and some recapitulation, but before I do this, allow me a short lift from the commentary of the Green Circle, which has also come and which is certainly available to the European Commission and DG Envi and from which it may then draw on the assessment of our proposed projects. This is the construction of 511 on the D1 motorway, the construction of Běchovice. The supporting documents, input information and documents of the EIA process for the construction of the road circuit around Prague are at least 15 years old and therefore completely out of date. For example, estimates/calculations of transport intensity have increased by hundreds of percent since then. There have been changes in the territory, e.g. the declaration of EVL Natura 2000. There have been other changes. A new housing construction was created in many places. Since 2000, building regulations have changed, environmental protection, sanitary limits, and several amendments to the Air Protection Act have been made. As a result of the salami method in the preparation and assessment of constructions, the effects of related constructions have not been properly assessed. Moreover, the EIA documentation and reports on the above mentioned constructions do not exist in electronic form at all, which has made it very difficult for many years to get to know the citizens of the territories concerned and to comment on their content. We ask for a new complete assessment in the EIA process for these constructions, including an assessment of the variants of these constructions. Of course, the Commission and DG Envi have similar objections at the disposal of a large majority of the buildings, and they are really very detailed and live. Dear colleagues, we have inherited for many years an unsolved problem with the lack of amendment of the European EIA Directive and have started to address it literally since the first weeks of our operation. We managed to save more than 100 billion, thanks to huge activity. from European funds, and they were really seriously threatened. The Czech Republic, thanks to the poor drawdown of European funds from the previous period, got into double pliers, when we were literally a few hours, and I have already said this, before deciding to immediately stop drawing European funds. A criticized amendment to Law 39 saved this money and was negotiated for many months by a number of experts including, I dare say, in a number of cases of top lawyers and among others. has also been approved by the Legislative Council of the Government. It succeeded, not that it failed, it managed to agree a fundamental exception, to which the European Commission was completely rejecting at the beginning, that therefore it would not be necessary to carry out a new evaluation of the EIA on the next hundreds of projects under the newer law number 100. I have already mentioned that the length of construction preparation in the Czech Republic is absolutely unique. I've already said a little bonmot once, I've got to repeat it again. If colleague Stanjura says that every day without amending the EIA directive he was good, unfortunately, even though I understand the logic he says it with, it is unfortunately the same logic as when someone rejoices in every day he has not yet been caught. That's something that's already happened to us. I must say that it is also completely unjustified to worry that we will not be spending European money in time. Within its operational programme, the Ministry of Transport has prepared mechanisms so that if the money was not exhausted on the roads, it would be exhausted in a different way, and there are possibilities of relocation. It is possible to decide on the possibility of relocation if I am well informed until the end of this year. So I dare say that we will not lose the euro from the new programming period, while we had a critically endangered 100 billion from the previous programming period. And that's just easy to prove. So if I'm being called to some responsibility, I say, I have no problem with it if I feel like we've made a major mistake somewhere. But I believe that the Ministry of the Environment, and not only that, did the best possible in the interests of the Czech Republic in this matter. I'm neither Hollande nor Cameron nor Merkelová, oddly enough. That would probably be easier to negotiate. Every time you talk about European funds, please note that we invest German, French, British, Belgian, Dutch and other taxpayers here, not our money, and that we simply need to follow the rules set by the EU. And it is not about sucking up to the European Union, because the negotiations that have taken place have been conducted with the knowledge of what is at stake. It was a matter of crisis management, when we really decided whether and what the risk was, and the risk was enormous, that they would stop drawing European funds immediately, and we did not have the next time. We bought that time with this, we saved those 100 billion, we saved the projects under Act No. 100, and we bought the time we used to negotiate with the European Commission, and it is verifiable, at the negotiations with the European Commission on the solution of projects under Law 244, which have always been problematic. And it's half the problem, maybe the smaller half. We are today after those gradual steps, i.e. the possibility of an accelerated discussion and amendment, and it is not true, colleagues, if anyone says: you have been waiting for 13 months and now you are coming up with a novel. We have, of course, proposed the amendment to the European Commission several times, but so far, we've always been sent straight with any amendment, saying no, let's talk about other options. We are in a situation today where it is simply clear that we have exhausted the possibilities we had after these negotiations at all political levels. I will be very happy, and I would always like for one of my colleagues to be actively involved. I have always said, if you have the possibility that you can influence someone in the European Commission, especially DG Envi, who is a key partner and who is presenting matters to the European Commission for funding, please do so. We talked to dozens of people, but unfortunately, no one had the authority to do this. I think that today we are in a situation where we will actually propose legislation after all these negotiations, which will ensure that the drawdown of European funds is not stopped, but that we move forward. Again. We insist, and we have a lot of clear arguments about it, that we saved the money, that the money would never have been spent without this law, without this key law as a condition that a new programming period could not even be started, and we gained more time. And these are clear and irreversible facts. And the others, folks, of course, is haunting what would have happened if. But I know what would happen. Because we can really prove that today. I firmly believe that we can finally agree with the Commission that the projects, the 11 projects, which are the most crucial, will be discussed by Minister Ťok, will be able to convince the Commission that it will eventually approve and finance those projects. Because I'm asking again. This is not about having 100 or more billion crowns in the cash register to finance this money from the Czech budget. We want that money from the European Union, and we should also meet at least the elementary requirements that the European Union has had on us for decades. And I am firmly convinced that we will fulfill them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. Please, before the next one continues. Minister Ťok, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and Chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek are registered with priority rights. With factual remarks, Mr Kalousek, Mr Kučera and Mr zahradník. Now, then, Mr Kalousek's factual remark, and then we will continue. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Minister, if you will forgive me through Mr President that, given the long and sophisticated language of yours, I will try to translate it into Czech within a few sentences. You basically said here: I was confronted with this problem in February 2015. In the 14 months that had passed in the meantime, even though the problem at the very beginning was about medium and medium-sized, I was able to make it a problem of scale because of my incompetence and incompetence. And because of my incompetence to make it a problem of scale, I must now say that all these governments before me, because they neglected it, they didn't do it. [[12.50 hours]] Sure, of course, it's because we left you with a problem that you had to deal with, so you ruined it. Like everything you had to deal with. If we could do it before, you didn't have the problem, you didn't have to do anything, so you didn't have to mess anything up. But each of us, Minister, took some inheritance and each one of us went to the European Commission with such a problem and negotiated. Only you could screw it up like that. You're the only one who can blame it on your predecessor. Just don't let the packers rule us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u7	That was my colleague Kalousek. Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I listened carefully to Minister Brabec's speech, and I would like to ask him why these qualified information that he's telling us here today, about what EIA means, how it's going to end on transport constructions, didn't come up here when we were discussing the EIA amendment. On the contrary, I'm going to quote: there's a mantra here, I quote Minister Brabec, there's a mantra here that we're not going to build. It's not true. We're gonna build anyway. [[Minister Brabec from outside the microphone: We are building.]] Let's hear it for members of the YES. That's a quote. Well, I don't know what. This is a quote from Minister Brabec. The only way I can explain this is that either Minister Brabec came unprepared as Minister of the Environment and only then began to get acquainted with problems and began to find out with horror that there were problems, or Minister Brabec did not know about it. That or that, I don't know what's worse, whether his ignorance or his unpreparedness. You see, Minister, next year, in 2017 - we have worked quite a lot as a municipal authority with the Road and Motorway Directorate - in 2017, Mr.Faltýnek, through Mr. President, was about to start building a Louna bypass. It is an absolutely critical matter, where it is perhaps one of the most tragic sections in the Czech Republic, where it is actually dying and there are many tragic accidents. It won't be built. It will not be built because Minister Brabec messed up the EIA law! Because of the fact that Minister Brabec messed up the EIA law or, respectively, his negotiation. And if he does, I will personally apologize to Minister Brabco.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u9	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Now, Mr Zahradník, Mr Faltýnek will prepare for a factual remark as well. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u10	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, well, from that alibi speech by Minister Brabec, we are not some of us wise. It is not only the citizens who should be watching or who should take something out of it. They can ask questions, and yet they have in their minds some sort of continuance of laws, that the fact that something has been acquired has happened according to some earlier law, does not mean that it has to change. The retroactivity here is completely incomprehensible. And the second thing is, these people can ask themselves, "Why in God's name don't you do the EIA again? Then make them quick again. But, ladies and gentlemen, you, coalition MPs, coalition MPs, have given this EIA law a great deal of power, uncontrolled, without any responsibility in the hands of environmental activists. They can enter the proceedings at any time, they can interrupt the proceedings at any time, they can block them. And it doesn't have to be people who somehow have a place to live around that purpose, which somehow is directly affected by it. They can be environmental organisations, environmental activists, they can be people who just want to prevent the project in some way, on principle, so that they can comply with some of their ideological religions. And all they have to do is put 200 signatures together, unverified, it doesn't have to be people in the neighborhood, and that's true. They have that power, and they can block it at any time. And I have one question to ask myself, why do you from the YES movement, for God's sake, give enormous power to these activists? Why are you doing this? And when I look for that answer, I just notice that in the last two and a quarter years, I haven't seen any environmental activist criticize any chemical plants, that some environmentalist would deal with biogas stations, that some environmentalist would criticize the farming of a large enterprise belonging to your boss. Perhaps that's what citizens should be looking for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u11	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. [[Member of the Gardener: Thank you.]] Well, thank you. Now, Mr Faltýnek, with a factual point too. A colleague of Mr Laudát will prepare himself for a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. We have become accustomed to the fact that many of our colleagues, and František Laudát, today was an example of this, suffer from so-called long-term amnesia. For a non-doctor: it's a memory loss. On the other hand, we can't blame the last government, which has only been here three years and replaced four transport ministers in those three years. I couldn't even remember all those names. I remember only Mr Bárta, who stopped construction in our country - we probably all know that and we probably agree on that - and then a colleague of Stanjura, who was actually the last Minister of Transport and was only there for six or eight months. So I'd really like us to construct this debate and look for a solution. There have been some motions for a resolution. I have a proposal prepared myself. Unfortunately, I don't think we're gonna make it, and it's too bad. Anyway, I'd probably like to read the proposition with permission. I hope I can make it within the remaining 40 seconds. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the situation caused by the incompatibility of EIA opinions under Law 244 with current legislation poses a risk of significant economic impacts, as well as a threat to the successful drawdown of European funds. Secondly, it notes that the non-implementation of transport structures on the backbone network of transport infrastructure or a significant delay in its implementation has serious negative consequences for regional development, environment, mobility and economic and social conditions of the regions and municipalities. I guess we all agree on that. Thirdly, it asks the Government to promptly submit legislative solutions to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to enable the buildings concerned to be implemented as soon as possible. And lastly, it supports negotiating conditions for determining a specific procedure for priority transport constructions, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u13	You, too, Mr President, have ended the time to make a point of fact...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u15	... this needs to be read in a detailed debate. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I'm not gonna respond to any insinuations or insults. That's all you're capable of. You've just been in power for almost three years and look what you've solved from this country's real problems. And as much as I was concerned about the quality and abilities of Minister Brabec, after today I am even more appalled. You've noticed he was practically not talking about the future. I think people want highways not to kill hundreds of people here every year, that they want road currents to be downloaded to high-quality modern communications, and not that you're going to reallocate. You're blowing up money, that was the end of the last period, dramatically having to drop efficiency and spend those investments. You just want to pump the money into the roads where the effects are downright low, and I'm afraid if you want to buy trains, which is also one of those ideas, not that I'm not a railroad fan, but right now what this country needs is highways, safe highways. And you're doing something like this here - I mean, man, you don't even know here that you're threatening or risking the collapse of the entire Traffic Operational Program for this period. That's what we're talking about! And please start talking about what you're just gonna do for these people instead of making some hints and comments about what you're gonna do for them. What you'll just prepare. [[13.00 hours]] What steps will you take? Why haven't you come up with this legislative thing yet? I don't have a problem with what Mr Faltýnek here has put forward, but please, you don't need a support resolution for this either. I've been banging on you for three or four months, and you're laughing at it here, commenting on it somewhere, calling a media show where you're telling people what you're doing, and you're still... So go be the chronicler, man, not the minister of the environment. This country needs something to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-05-ps2013-046-01-001-001.u17	Your time has ended for a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador. Dear colleague, gentlemen. It is 13 o'clock, I have no choice but to interrupt the Chamber of Deputies' meeting because it is Thursday and at 14.30 they begin oral interpelation according to the Rules of Procedure. I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, apologizing to Mr Karel Schwarzenberg from today's meeting and to Mr Milan Šarapatka. I note that I am interrupting this point, namely that the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, and then the President of the Faltýnek Club, is duly registered. With factual remarks, a colleague Michal Kučera and Miroslav Kalousek are registered in this order. The other order shall be recorded in the recording system of six Members. I'm interrupting the House of Deputies meeting... [[A Member of the Germans speaks outside the microphone from the diaper.]] Yes, as far as apologies are concerned, I will once again state the excuses of the ministers for this afternoon's meeting. He apologizes Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka until 14.30, or he will be present for the interpelation. He also apologizes for today's meeting of Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek, Jiří Dienstbier, Milan Chovanec until 15.30, or he will be at the interview. Marian Jurečka is on a foreign trip, Michaela Marksová for work reasons, Jan Mládek for work reasons, Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons and Kateřina Valachová for work reasons. Lubomír Zaorálek will be after 14 o'clock, so there will be an interpelation. So these are the excuses that have been made for today.
