ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u1	1. Law amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended /German press 611/7/ - returned by the President of the Republic The opinion of the President of the Republic, stating his opposition to this law, was delivered to you as a House press of 611/8. First, I ask the draftsman, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, whether she wants to comment on the President's position. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me ask you to support the amendment to the School Act and briefly comment on the arguments raised after the President of the Republic vetoed the law. In particular, I would like to say that as regards the subject of inclusive education or joint education, this amendment to the school law, as you know, does not regulate this issue and does not address it. On the issue of pre-school education for two-year-olds, it is true that this amendment came into the bill at the end of the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, but you know that this position and this recommendation already contained a resolution by the Guarantee Committee and was discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies for about a month. As far as the education of two-year-olds is concerned, I would also like to say that 40,000 children of two-year-olds are already in our kindergarten. The question of capacity is taken into account by the fact that the launch of this measure is intended for 2020. In 2020, if half of the demographic development of two-year-olds took advantage of the possibility of access to kindergarten schools, it would appear that existing capacities would be sufficient except for Prague and Brno. If it were to use 100 per cent of two-year-olds, which I believe we do not expect, we would need to rethink the capacity for which we have financial money from both European and national sources in sufficient volume and allocation. Finally, I would like to comment on the long-term communication with the Union of Towns and the Association of Local Authorities. After the bill was vetoed, I met and agreed with the Bureau of the Union of Towns and Municipalities on a regular basis, so that communication would be as intense as possible and that we would understand each other correctly from the point of view of measures that would mean the implementation of the amendment to the School Act into practice. I believe, honourable Members, that you will support the amendment of the law, and I believe that you also trust me that we are able to put the bill into practice and to ensure a number of measures which, of course, do not concern only the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. I ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, wants to comment on the President's position. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. I have been standing here for several times as rapporteur for this amendment to the School Act, which was here under press 611. I must say that the three basic points of this law, and this is the last mandatory year of kindergarten, uniform entrance exams since the school year 2016/2017 and mathematics graduation from 2020/2021, are a matter which both the school committee and the majority of Members in this House have supported. When I read various discussion forums, I read there that it is inclusion, etc. I would like to point out that we are not talking about inclusion in this Act, we are not talking about this change, which we adopted by a majority vote with the signature of the President last spring. But if you'll allow me, I just want to make one reference to those two-year-olds in kindergarten. As the Minister has already said here, we already have 40,000 children of two-year-olds in kindergarten schools today. The point is that five years ago or six years ago, I don't know exactly, a law was adopted that loosened parental leave for two - parents can return to work after two, three or four years of age. It's okay. It is good for mothers to have the opportunity to decide whether for either existential or professional reasons they choose the length of parental leave they want. This was said by the State (a), but he did not say (b) how he would help these mothers if they needed to take care of the children at the age of two. That led me to make a law amendment. And I want to point out again, with this amendment to the law, we are giving the opportunity to place two-year-olds in a kindergarten with a guarantee from 2020/2021. If we take it that moms are born between the 25th and 30th years today, at this reproductive age, there will be girls who were born after 1990. And as we all know, that's where the demographic curve went down. That means we can't expect to see five or six children from each of these mothers. That means we don't have to worry about a place in kindergarten. I also want to help directors, heads of kindergartens, who often accept children for two years under certain conditions, but do not support the law. We're the ones who put this amendment into the law. But I say again, it doesn't apply until 2020. I would like to conclude by pointing out to all doubters that we are not talking about the obligation that a child has to go to kindergarten at two years old, that, on the contrary, when we gave parents the opportunity to decide how long they will be on parental leave, we give them the possibility that they can give their child from two years old to kindergarten, if we don't have a nursery, the micro-doesn't work yet, and the children's groups don't have a wall. So all these doubts that were, I think, unnecessary, and I intercede for the Chamber of Deputies to overrule the President's veto and finally allow this law to apply, and from the school year 2016/2017, according to him, our schools could work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u5	Thank you, too. I'm opening the debate. I'm registering several applications. In any event, the first point of fact is that of Mr Václav Votava. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, this will not be related to the item under discussion. I would only like to see a step forward - in the previous vote I expressed the will to vote 'yes', I found that I had a cross on the high. So I'm not questioning the vote, of course, but only for the shade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u7	Thank you. We will therefore continue the debate now. First, Mr Tomio Okamura will appear and Mrs Marta Semelová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the school law returned to the House by Mr President unfortunately does not address the most controversial issue and this is the joint education of children, another inclusion in schools with which our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, strongly disagrees despite the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš, who support inclusion, although inclusions are rejected by teachers, experts and students themselves. I don't understand why the government is so stubbornly promoting inclusion. That's a problem that should bother us. There's only one solution today. It would be ideal for the Ministry of Education to prepare an amendment quickly, which, unfortunately, we cannot expect from this government, at least according to a compromise proposal which, after a general public criticism of the law, might be acceptable, i.e. to promote the education of pupils with disabilities in mainstream primary schools since September, only adequately towards the possibilities of schools. According to our SPD movement, however, it would be ideal to set up a school system so that schools can provide their pupils with the best possible education. On the contrary, inclusion will add to the problems of the disabled, because children are not angels, and a disabled child can suffer more than gain in the group of normal children. The work of special educators will now be replaced by assistants for the government. It's about the degradation of special education. The materials relating to inclusive education contain misguided assumptions. He claims that in an inclusive education environment, the performance of children comes on its own. Schools should leave the performance criterion as a basic indicator of their success and focus on positive relations and climate at school. These are false assumptions that will have a major impact on the quality of public education. Inclusion is either a misguided ideology or part of the business plan of future non-inclusive school owners. Another thing is that in the Czech Republic we systematically resign to promote public education for smart and gifted children. The decree on the education of children with specific educational needs to address the education of gifted children just added administration to schools and does nothing to help. The whole Western world has already learned what inclusion is, how the level of education declines at the moment when we put children of so-called normal among children who are otherwise or inadaptable in some way, and it doesn't really matter whether they are mentally ill or, perhaps, children of other cultures. This government experiment will be carried out in the situation of underfunded Czech education, where the teacher works for a disgraceful wage. [[15.50 hours]] Once upon a time, we were haunted by the American movie Jungle in front of the board. In American schools, inclusion caused a complete degradation of public education. Convincing that some black students' miserable results are not due to lack of diligence or talent, but because of discrimination, has led to schools reducing demands. First for black and Puerto Rican pupils, later for everyone else. Discipline ceased to be enforced and the teaching system gradually fell apart. And today, for testimony about the terrifying jungle in front of the board, you don't have to go overseas. Just look to the neighbors and hear or read the teachers' testimony in Germany. School is a sport discipline in its own way. I have to train, I have to have discipline, I have to have some skills. If I don't have this, then I don't want to play the first league, but I have to settle for the level I'm good at, or the level I'm willing to work on. This isn't about one other or an inadaptable child, this is about the rest of the class, which doesn't make one weaker individual a genius, but weaker individuals, on the contrary, will slow down very effectively the results of those who could do better. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not out of my head, but it is shown by expert studies on this subject and the state of education wherever they have tried with inclusion. Every child has the right to the best possible education, and this right must be granted not only to the weakest, but also to the average and above-average. The Ministry of Education and Sobotkov and Babiš government are not interested in Czech children. They want to integrate our education into the education system of the European Union, into a system that preaches such nonsense as that over half the population should have a university, a system that destroys the quality of education. Our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, will not support the President's veto vote. The government and the Ministry of Education are harming pupils and teachers, destroying our education by adopting devastating concepts of the European Union and administration that are unprecedented in the history of our education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u9	Thank you. Just for the record, when you speak in the debate, stick to the subject, because this law does not address inclusion. I shall ask Mr Kořenko with a factual remark. Mrs Putnová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I, although of course I must respond to this contribution, even if it is not directly to the President's veto, please listen to us. Whether it's called inclusion or integration, we basically have had these pupils in our system completely lege artis according to the law since 1991. Law No 2004 was adopted. 561, which contains Section 16. Of course, the fact that the conditions were not unified and each consultancy device was diagnosed differently could mean that the regions did not have financial conditions. Today, nothing is happening except that the same conditions are set for the whole Republic. The D.O.D. described exactly the flaws the school would have on them. So the system is balanced in terms of finance, but it does not change in terms of its composition and quality of operation. I've been training these students for years. And if it doesn't work out somewhere, then I'm asking why the directors have been breaking the law so far. Nobody's gonna put a pupil who has some harder disability into a regular school because all the defects aren't integratable. It's just reality. So let's not make this a political issue. As I don't understand nuclear energy and I won't talk about it, so please don't think that anyone can speak to education and understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u11	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Anna Putnová's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to contribute to the substantive and effective discussion of this point. For TOP 09, I would like to say that everything we wanted to say during the discussion of the amendment to the Education Act, we said. Of course, it is possible to find this in our log. We have expressed our views both on the amendment itself and on the amendments. Since the debate is turning in a completely different direction, I think it would be appropriate if we returned to the substance of the matter. We have said our last word by voting at third reading and we are not changing our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u13	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 5:30 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Igor Jakubčík apologizes. The President of the Fiala will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u14	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is very tempting and it would be tempting to talk about inclusion and the way in which the Ministry of Education approaches it, but of course I will not do it, because inclusion is not the subject of this amendment to the Education Act. We are really extensive, as Mrs Putnová said here, all of us have argued, especially we who had reservations about what this amendment to the school law looks like, and I would not like to repeat all the arguments, but I would just like to say very briefly that the Chamber of Deputies has a chance to do something good for our education again and to throw this amendment under the table. I certainly am not one of those who would support or approve or agree with most of President Miloš Zeman's actions, but here I think he was right not to sign this amendment and veto it. And I think we would do well not to approve it again and really throw it under the table. There's a lot of things that don't help anybody, they hurt a lot of people or complicate their lives. There is absolutely unnecessary provision for compulsory last year of preschool education, simply saying that every child has to go to kindergarten before entering primary school. It's completely unnecessary. I know that the Minister will argue that the children need not go there, that there will be individual education, but that parents will have to lead the child to kindergarten for some kindergarten examination to see if they are being cared for or not well cared for when it comes to elementary school preparation is completely unnecessary. We have the minutes, the vast majority of the children are well prepared to enter primary school. Those that are not, so often they are not the ones that already visit preschool facilities, we have a huge number of delays in the Czech Republic, so the problem is not in the few percent of children who do not go to kindergarten, but the problem is, of course, completely different. He already goes to kindergarten in some 93 years, in other 94, sometimes 92 percent of children. It's completely useless to deal with the law and order everyone else to do it. When I'm at kindergarten or kindergarten, what bothered Mr. President and what bothered me at the beginning and what still bothers me now is the duty of preschool facilities to receive children at the age of two, if that's what parents want. Yes, we have children in kindergartens who aren't three years old, we have about tens of thousands of them, the last number the Ministry of Education gave is 40,000. But that's no argument that it's meant to be and that we're supposed to give it to the law. On the contrary, this is wrong practice and we should not support it with this legal provision. Each teacher or teacher in a kindergarten will tell you that there is a huge difference in caring for a child who is three years old and caring for a child who is two years old. The differences in biological, psychological, and other needs are endless, and often the education that kindergarten teachers have in kindergarten is not sufficient to take care of these children fully. Moreover, this must often lead to those children being in separate groups or separate classes. And why is all this? This is because children who are not three years old simply do not belong in this kind of preschool facility, such as a kindergarten. Kindergarten isn't a child's playground. It is an educational institution, part of the education system for which the framework education programme applies. [[16.00 hours]] For caring for preschool children, where parents want to work, we have or should have other types of facilities. A children's group, for children who are still under the age of a kindergarten, so we have a nursery and other and other things at our disposal. There is simply no need to introduce a legal obligation for kindergartens to accept children who have not yet reached the age of three. And let's see how it complicates the lives of the communities. What do you say to the mayors who have now completed the school, the kindergarten to have sufficient capacity, and now all of a sudden, the capacity is not enough because they will have to accept children who are not two years old if their parents wish? That seems irresponsible and completely unnecessary to me by the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u15	I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, once again to keep it down. Please continue, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u16	I would like to remind you of one more thing, which, in turn, takes authority from directors and harms secondary schools, and that is the idea that there will be uniform entrance exams for secondary schools. Why don't we leave it to the school principals? Why are we going to introduce uniform exams for all types of schools? It's completely unnecessary. And so I could talk about one thing after another. Maybe I'd consider it a reasonable math graduation, but I wouldn't have seen any harm if it hadn't been legal now, because I think that we need more time for her good preparation and for changing her math education than what the novel's about. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a chance here to do something good for the schools. Do not expose education to further change. Remember, it hasn't been that long since we adopted another amendment to the school code. There's another one on the table. Now the President has given us a chance to get her off the table. Let's do it. And I can assure you that it will do no harm to Czech schools. On the contrary, it will help them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u17	Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mrs Semelová. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u18	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, as regards the reasons for which the President has returned the school law to us, it is, on the one hand, the obligation to define the school districts of nursery schools from 1. 1. 2017. Compulsory pre-school education for children aged five years is indicated. Further gradual extension of pre-school education for children aged two years, respectively. allow parents to use nursery schools for children from this age. And it already mentions the discussed inclusion, which is part of the previous amendment. As members of the KSČM, we did not vote in favour of the amendment to the Education Act, although I recognise that a piece of work has been done on the form of the School Act and changes are incorporated here that could contribute to the improvement of education in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, however, we have reservations about some of these changes and we expressly disagree with some changes. As regards the adjustments that we believe could lead to an increase in the level of education, this is, on the one hand, compulsory pre-school education for children aged five years and, on the other hand, the obligation to define school-based areas for kindergarten schools. Here, then, our position is different from that of the President of the Republic. We consider compulsory education to be necessary in the last year before entering primary school. It is one of the steps to balance the differences and comparison of chances, comparing the starting path especially for children from a less stimulating environment, which will help them greatly. We consider it important that the kindergarten is to perform and act as an educational, educational and social school. More and more often, as we witness, a family where children often do not have basic habits is underdeveloped in speech, language skills, etc. And this is where kindergarten is playing a very important level. However, by the fact that the Ministry of Education has succumbed to pressure and this proposal has softened by allowing individual education, when parents only announce that they will educate the child at home, while verification of the development of the child, his knowledge, skills is a mere formality, and further support for children's groups who do not provide pre-school education is merely a babysitter, so these modifications are actually completely losing the original sense of not being involved after this adjustment for compulsory pre-school education. As far as the area is concerned, we support this change, unlike the President, because we think that if a child is to be admitted to kindergarten, there must be leverage to ensure this entitlement. So the fallout areas are necessary, while the parent is not bound by the obligation to enter or put the child into this school. It can also choose another school where it will be accepted if, of course, capacity is available. Our support also has the introduction - not to mention the President, but I want to mention it for the KSČM club - has the support of introducing a single entrance exam for high school. I think that this is important both for secondary schools themselves in terms of the quality of pupils accepted, but also subsequently for higher education in terms of the level of students accepted. But also for primary schools themselves, where pupils are forced to prepare for uniform exams in that ninth grade, they are forced to learn, and it is also related to the behaviour of pupils in the second half of the ninth grade. However, once again, we see it as untethered that the original meaning is being lost, by not adopting our amendment, so that the unobstructed limits of success can be centrally established. That is, when a student can still be admitted to high school and when he can't. This means that since there is also no change in the financing of regional education, this all leads to this, or the directors are forced to meet the maximum number of secondary schools, so that they can, of course, get the maximum amount of money. So again, a change that would deserve support if it were dragged out, but not so much that it actually loses its original sense and ceases to be effective. As regards the reservations in which we agree with the President, it is his criticism of pre-school education in children aged two years, but ultimately the inclusion mentioned. Even though I perceive the reservations that are being raised here. As far as two-year-olds are concerned, of course, this is possible at present, but the amendment that has been adopted actually legalizes and sets it right in the law that it will be eligible for two-year-olds as well. I would like to say that children under the age of three are already in kindergarten. And there are even two-year-olds who make up over 36, almost 37 percent of children under the age of three, and almost 2 percent have not completed two years. At the same time, however, I would like to say that this causes major complications in the kindergartens where this happens. At least the ones I could meet with the experience of some of the teachers. Two-year-olds need absolutely different care than those in kindergarten. By being integrated between them, preschoolers and these young children are actually suffering. Preschool education suffers from this, which should be primarily for five-year-olds. Two-year-olds need completely different care, like I said. A teacher who is in such a class must, on the one hand, provide education for more than 20 children and, on the other hand, change diapers for these little two-year-olds, whom she does not understand many times. [[16.10 hours]] They have completely different individual biological needs and in kindergartens there are neither personnel nor spatial conditions for such claims. I understand that they are parents, and mostly mothers who need to get into work are forced to do so because of the economic question. But so let the government support the municipalities in restoring the nursery and anchor the nursery into legislation so that they can function in favour of families with children. As far as inclusion is concerned, I know that this is not part of this law, however, when discussing this law and discussing amendments, namely mine, when I asked to postpone for two years, it naturally also got on the agenda of the day. I think that if this amendment were approved, there was a chance to treat the matter in such a way that there would be no hasty, unprepared and unthinkable change. I think it will really damage everyone - both teachers and children in mainstream schools and integrated pupils, who will be paradoxically more excluded than if they were not in the so-called joint education, but in a special school. I don't want to comment on this any further. We discussed this issue in detail at all three readings here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but ultimately in committees. I just want to say one last thing in this matter that we have a novel prepared to re-enable the so-called inclusion by two years. What we absolutely disagree with in the amendment to the School Act, and I am surprised that neither the President of the Republic nor the Minister nor the rapporteur mentions it, and this is individual, virtually. home education, which also extends to second grade primary schools. I would like to say that this is the main reason why the KSČM club cannot support the re-vote of the presidential veto. The fact that this option has entered the school law is absolutely essential and unacceptable for our club KSČM. This change and some others will lead to the privatisation of education, as we are already witnessing parents converging around individual education, setting up some private kindergartens for their children. Let's do it from 1. 9. The inclusion is to apply, which will once again lead to strengthening private education, to strengthening the number of pupils at multi-annual grammar schools. At the same time, I consider it a retreat from the expertise, and it is also a degradation of the teaching profession. To have in kindergartens instead of qualified nanny educators, so that children in children's groups who need preschool education take care of nanny, social workers and others, to teach a range of vocational subjects at second grade primary schools, but finally at the first level of primary schools was entrusted to parents who may not have any knowledge of pedagogy, psychology, etc., we consider this truly scandalous. That is why the KSČM club will not support the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u19	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll read two apologies. Today, from 15.30 to 18 pm, Minister Milan Chovanec apologizes for urgent duties in the Ministry of the Interior and from 16 to 19 pm for reasons of work, for reasons of apologies to Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Mr Karamazov will now appear in the debate and Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we will enjoy countless times in our discussions on the laws on the subject of education. It is a consequence of what proposals are made to the House. If, for once, the Ministry weren't trying to organize people's lives, we could save ourselves another long speech. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Again we stand here and hear the same arguments about the school law, because the President of the Republic vetoed the amendment to the school law, as we know. It is not often, in fact, almost at all, when the President deserves to be commended for his actions. But in the case of his veto school law, I have to make an exception. Perhaps this veto will not be an isolated scream. The government spits out a lot of similar legislative paquilas. The school bill just confirms it. After all, even the left-wing president stood up to the neo-Marxist proposals contained in the amendment to the School Act. For example, we don't have to go far. Just remind us of compulsory pre-school attendance, which actually means extending basic education to ten years instead of focusing on quality. Or it can also be recalled the uniform entrance exams at secondary schools. The secretary sends a clear message to the school management: I don't believe you, you're incompetent, which is why I won't even let you choose your own students. Instead of running the school, I'm going to turn you into just administrative workers. But let's go back to the presidential veto. Its core has become the part of the amendment which integrates the right of parents to place their children in kindergartens since the age of two, starting on 1 September 2020. I think I understand the nature of the proposal, but so far no one has addressed the question of how many children it will be, and thus could not compare the imaginary demand with the capacity of existing installations. There is not enough time to build new facilities. Moreover, the budget of the founders does not usually include money. Suitable spots are not identified. And four years go by before anything changes. I therefore agree that this part of the amendment is not prepared, nor did the appropriate analysis and discussion on the committee go ahead. Another part that the President of the Republic has touched, even marginally, is compulsory pre-school education for children aged five, which I mentioned at the outset, and many others. I don't think my speech can change anything in the secretary's opinion. I'm too much of a realist for that. Nevertheless, it is appropriate for some arguments to be heard again. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let's finally face the truth. The compulsory year of pre-school education will not solve the problem of the lack of readiness of primary school pupils. If we look at how many children at the age of five are already attending kindergarten today, it is about 95 percent. The reasons for not attending a kindergarten may vary and do not always send their children to kindergarten only to socially disadvantaged families, whom the proposed measure will not help anyway. I ask you: Is it really right for us to order about 5 percent of the children to do what the remaining 95 percent is bound to do? It doesn't seem reasonable to me. And even if, after socialistism, we did a 100 percent plan and ensured the presence of every five-year-old child in kindergarten, we wouldn't be able to solve the problem by far. The consequences of the child's poor upbringing are not only reflected when entering school, but at any time during pre-school education. If the family is constantly neglecting education, the child lags against his peers from early age to the end of compulsory schooling. After all, the child's readiness depends not only on whether he sits somewhere for four hours a day. It depends on the general direction in which the child is guided. For example, if no one helps a first-class student with homework and school grades are stolen from the family, a student can sit at school for ten hours and still not know the results. The same applies to preschool education. If the child does not receive adequate care from the family, a regular visit to the kindergarten will not change much. He'll wash his hands in kindergarten, but what happens when he gets home? It happens exactly what the parents want. So, as we can see, the whole problem is much more complex than it seems at first sight. I will not play the omnipotent in this place, because simple and guaranteed solutions do not exist. However, I warn against embarking on nonsense regulations. Although the amendment also contains one very good proposal in the form of compulsory mathematics graduation, I propose to support the veto of the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. From 16.15 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, the Minister apologizes today. Mr Zahradník will now appear in the debate and Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u22	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, there are so many proposals to amend school laws in the last period that citizens must be bound to be confused. So this, as we finally made clear at the beginning, concerns three major neural problems: the problem of kindergarten, the problem of compulsory entrance exams and the problem of mathematics graduation. My colleagues have already discussed problems related to the compulsory last year of kindergarten and with the possibility to receive children from two years of age. I would just like to say that, for the time being, as many such laws here in our House, I have seen the influence of various activist groups, in this case gender, feminist, socialist. As for the other problem, the problem of compulsory high school entrance exams. Those exams would certainly be good, certainly help to increase the interest of pupils in primary school at the end, in the ninth grade, which, as it turns out, is not exactly the best thing. Many pupils in many 9th grade schools no longer teach, do nothing. But the question is, what's it gonna bring to those high schools? Already today, in recent times, the directors of the high schools at which demand was overhanged have introduced entrance exams, certainly selected the best from the applicants and eventually accepted them into their schools. The question is, what about high schools that have six pupils in their class after the first round of entrance exams. I'm sure common sense is in charge of shutting down high schools like this. I took the liberty of saying this, even though I know it's an incredibly brilliant neuralgic theme, especially four months before the regional elections. A high school like this, it's like, I'd say, a death cocktail for the governor or mayor of the village that decides to do it, which isn't happening, and then we have high schools that leave empty. They'll accept who they want, who's gonna sign up for them, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u23	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to ask the left side of the hall to keep it down so that it's clear what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. But for those schools that are interested, let's give them the level of admission exams, the way they set themselves. Finally, the third point, and that is precisely what causes me, as a lifelong math teacher, a relatively significant conflict of positive and negative forces in voting on this law. It's a mandatory math degree. In fact, I have, for a long time, advocated a part of my recent professional life and sought to make math compulsory as a subject of graduation. The position of mathematics at all in the system of graduation exams in our country is quite diverse. There were times when mathematics was a solid, mandatory part of graduation exams. For example, at the end of the 19th century, in a grammar school in the Austro-Hungarian power industry, e.g. students graduated from four compulsory subjects at the Grammar School in České Budějovice, namely from the teaching language, Latin, Greek, and wonder also from mathematics. And out of all four of these subjects, they also wrote graduation papers, including very difficult, for their time, but also for today's time, a little bit different from today's, but a very difficult written exam. At that time, the level of the graduation exam at the grammar school was the subject of a rather large social debate. Back then, at the end of the 19th century, society seemed to be overstretched at grammar school, that many of them would not pass their graduation exam. If you look at the high school yearbooks from that time or from the 1920s, you see a list of seniors with a range of 30, 35 names, as well as a list of so-called. A classmate of animals as well as 30, maybe 40 names. Those were the people who went to that class, but who had to leave their studies before they reached the graduation base for benefit or perhaps even material reasons. And so the company discussed, the important heads participated in the discussion, including Professor Thomayer, and if we had to guess what was the result of the discussion, in 1908 Marchetův's laws ruled out a mandatory written examination of mathematics. Latin, Greek remained, math, unfortunately, has been taught. And so it was alternately. The question is, does this uniform graduation make sense? I am convinced that no, math graduation should be diversified, certainly difficult, compulsory at grammar schools, possibly optional, optional at vocational schools. And those who have nothing to do with the technical field could really be just optional. This is how we expose pupils to actually a big dilemma. Students of vocational schools must choose to graduate from mathematics or language. They can barely do anything about both. I'm bohužel so. He's facing a difficult dilemma. So in the end, my dilemma, my conflict, I decided to vote against the approval of this law, hoping that sometimes math would be given the right status of a demanding graduation course for high school. And one more thing I would like to mention here. It's even the position of the so-called. State graduation exams, as they are practiced today, i.e. the written, state part, and then the part sort of a minor but socially significant part of the school. It makes it seem like before we introduced this state graduation, it wasn't a state exam. That's not true. The graduation exam was introduced at grammar schools in our country as a state examination already by Exner-Bonitzův reform in 1849. Since then, the state degree has been realized and the state supervision has been carried out by the presence of an independent chair of the graduation committee, usually a staff member of a school institution, or a director of some renowned grammar school or some renowned business academy, renowned secondary school of the field. Only the inflation of the graduates reduced the level of the test. As much as it was still state, yet its level was quite low, I admit it. And the question is whether the introduction of a compulsory graduation exam was the right step. We know that, for example, in the United States, this is natural. Pupils leave high school, last hour, last day they write tests, they get a postcard like the electric bill, and there is written the result of their graduation exam. When they came to our school, where I used to be the principal, they were amazed before graduation exams, just like we did. Before students have to come before the committee socially arranged, in proper tune, after a previous focused long preparation and in a comprehensive time of about four hours in the morning, the afternoon part shows knowledge of four subjects. This seemed almost unimaginable to them that they might be able to do so. [[16.30 hours]] I confess that I have been speaking for a long time here, but I did not express myself to these laws in previous readings. For one thing, I'm not an expert in education in our club, and I wanted to be more discreet. But I consider this an opportunity to give way to common sense at this moment, not to dismiss this law, confirm the presidential veto and try to seek the way of reason, the way of family activity in kindergarten matters, the way of freedom for school directors, and finally, as far as my beloved mathematics is concerned, the way of diversification in high school graduation exams. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Svoboda is now reporting with a point of fact, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, this law is indeed very controversial for me. On the one hand, I know that math graduation is the most important exam that exists. For years, when I was the dean of this question, I watched what was the strongest prediction factor for a college student to complete. It's a nice way to succeed in the math interview. Medicine does not have mathematics, medicine has physics, which is a field which is mathematics very related and requires the type of thinking that is there, and therefore I am convinced that the exam of mathematics belongs to high school, belongs to high school gymnasium type absolutely unambiguously, because that school prepares a student to study college and he should know whether the prerequisites for doing it have. On the other hand, this law interferes with parents' rights by ordering children to go to kindergarten from the age of five, which means extending schooling by one year. Although I myself give children and grandchildren to kindergarten, it's my decision as a parent who's leaning on some personal experience and what I want the child to get, and it's that parent's decision. And the freedom of an individual and the freedom of a parent to raise his child is a fundamental and fundamental axiom for me. That's why it's so hard to make decisions about this. But I really prefer that parents are responsible for their children and the state is responsible for giving them the opportunity, when they are high school students, to test whether they will be successful in college. These two factors are against each other. And when I add that up to how two-year-olds with diapers are going to kindergarten, I finally decided not to support the abolition of the president's veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u27	Thank you. Now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u28	Mr Vice-President, I also did not speak to this amendment to the School Act in its deliberations in the Chamber of Deputies because I am not a member of the Education Committee. Even here, as far as I can remember, there were a large number of those who spoke to this law and presented their point of view. I'm not gonna be able to do it tonight. This amendment is not merely some topic-based professional matter that falls exclusively within the education department. She has a major impact on parents' freedom of choice and also on municipalities and cities. It is simply not possible to impose the right to be placed in a kindergarten for two-year-olds in a very short period of time. I don't consider 2020 to be a long time. Considering that we are somewhere in the middle of the municipal politicians' term, this is not a long time at all. And it was approved without creating the necessary conditions. Plus, I've been very careful, and here I'm going to follow up on my colleague, the Zahradník, when I received a letter to me by which the organization -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u29	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but I will ask my colleagues again - if you have something important you need to deal with, go to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u30	Thank you. I was very attentive when I received a letter inviting me by the Czech Women's lobby to support the re-vote of the presidential veto applied to this amendment to the school law. When I read in detail the text of this letter, I do not know what is meant by the message of this organization that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will continue to fully subsidize all children in kindergartens, including two-year-olds. Whether this means teachers' salaries or teaching aids at direct costs or something else, I don't know. The Ministry of Education will hardly subsidize all the costs of running kindergarten schools, it does not do so at present. On the contrary, it is necessary to draw attention to a myth that maybe one of these organizations perceives that the State is paying all the cost to children in kindergarten. It's not like that at all. On the contrary, the State contribution - transferred to the budgetary determination of taxes since 2013 - has not increased significantly, and municipalities have long called for the correction of this situation. I've been a municipal politician for 26 years, and I've been a teacher. I also taught at elementary art school for 20 years, and during that time I experienced many changes mainly in the area of regional education. You know, from the point of view of the founders, and now I'm going to take it specifically to kindergarten, I think it should be said that frequent changes have, in general, not significantly improved the situation in pre-school education. This amendment to the Education Act cannot therefore be seen only from the point of view of officials of the Ministry of Education. As is known, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic itself has very critically commented on this amendment. In order not to give any false impression, this view of the Union of Cities really takes into account the great disapproval of mayors and local politicians with this law, across the political spectrum. It doesn't distinguish whether it's the mayor for YES or the mayor for ODS or independent. I have also personally attended many meetings of the institutions of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, but also, for example, in our Pilsen Region, an independent association of municipalities and cities. One of the main topics of the meeting was the form of the school law, not only in the discussed inclusion. Even this standard raised even more critical comments than I believe the failed budgetary determination of taxes. The mayors are based on real life, not on the ambitions of one or another resort or minister. In such a case, it is quite right and I consider it entirely legitimate that the Union of Towns and Communities has turned to the President of the Republic and asked him to consider using his constitutional powers and to return the law to the Chamber of Deputies. In addition, I read another letter today, this time a letter addressed to the Parents' Forum and the Mother Center Network. This organisation also disagrees with this form of school law. The specific reasons are obvious. They've been presented here more than once today, but I'll mention them. Compulsory last year of kindergarten. That's what I remember before November 1989 at one time. I don't know if it was the moment the secretary went to kindergarten, but I'm sure it was here, too. It's nothing new. In the end, this obligation was equally diluted in the law in the registration obligation of each parent to have his six- or five-year-old in the last year before entering primary school under the threat of being fined. Although such a child doesn't have to go to kindergarten really after all, he will have to keep his place for a whole year, I can't imagine it any other way, and block his capacity against other children. [[16.40 hours]] The right to be placed in kindergarten schools for children from the age of two, once again it has fallen several times. Such a change - I will not discuss how many two-year-olds can attend this type of pre-school education, but this change also costs a lot financially. The Minister guarantees it here, and also stated it in the exhibition, so-called. European money. However, first of all, we know the difficulties encountered by cities and municipalities in the past planning period with the use of European money. How much did it cost? How many administrative nature, unpredictable risks. Many problems are still being solved. Moreover, these European funds, as far as I know, can only be drawn from schools in this planning period on the basis of approved local action plans and these local action plans are not ready. I do not know to what extent the Minister is aware of this. Fallout districts of kindergarten schools - it fell again. Another controversial novelty that will, of course, limit parental freedom to choose a specific kindergarten for a child. The ministry's claim that parents will continue to be able to enroll a child in a non-spatial school is nice, but this will not be possible due to long-term lack of capacity in kindergarten schools. Where there's no room, there's no place for a kid from a non-spatial community to sign up for a school like this. I think that's obvious. Dear colleagues, this law has been enforced more or less at any cost and force. Mostly in the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister here spoke of communicating with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Diplomatically, she withheld the fact that she had not been able to obtain the support of mayors, many mayors of municipalities and cities for this school law. Under such conditions, to enforce this law in such an important and sensitive area as education, I consider it truly wrong. I do not intend to comment on the other changes in this amendment to the school law. I focused only on kindergartens, because even those other changes in me in many cases also do not give me much confidence. You know, when I read in the paper on Saturday that it is necessary to overrule the President's veto in order not to reduce the political position of the Prime Minister and the reputation of the Minister of Education, I also paid attention. I think that the consequences and consequences of the new rules should be very serious and we should not vote on whether or not the Minister's reputation will be reduced. You know, she doesn't care about the children or the mayor in many cases about the political position of a particular minister. However, they are interested in whether this amendment to the law will make life easier for them and improve their children's situation, or, on the contrary, it will make the current situation even more difficult and cause confusion. Because most likely, the second will happen. I cannot really support this law and I will not vote against the veto of the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. The first is for President Sklenák and after him is for President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. At today's meeting, I announced that the ambition of the government coalition is to discuss the points that are shining on the board. I suppose it won't be a problem to discuss them within 19 hours. However, out of some caution, I would like to propose, on behalf of the Social Democracy and the ANO 2011 Assembly Club, that we should be negotiating today, both territorially and procedurally, on all proposals after 19 o'clock, with the announcement that if, at 19 o'clock, we had to discuss the points that are on the board, I myself would be calling on the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs to interrupt the negotiations by tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u33	Thank you. I am registering your procedural proposal, which I will vote on without debate. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, 160 Members are registered. For proposal 97, against 45. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We will continue the debate. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. He's pulling her down, okay. Mr Petr Bendl has now duly signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, it has already been said a lot. You could almost say there's not much more to add. Man himself, when he sees how this government amendment to the school law will be applied in practice, what will actually cause everything and how the law promoter responds to it, he wonders whether to let you commit this political harakiri, because, as has already been said here across the political spectrum, the mayors from various political entities are rejected for practical reasons, because he sees the concrete effects of this decision or this legislation will bring. It has been mentioned here that these are, in particular, organisational and financial matters that municipalities are drawing attention to, because they will not be able to meet the requirements imposed by the law. It may be a pleasant idea for parents that by the age of two they will be able to put the child in kindergarten in order to provide for their other needs in life. However, this will mean significant financial costs for the municipalities. And yet, even if the secretary...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u35	I'm sorry. Colleagues and colleagues, but I'm asking you to keep your voice down a few times. If you keep raising the noise level in the O.R., I'll have to name it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u36	Thank you very much. If the Minister of Education here tells us anything about how he will take care of the state financially, until the Chamber of Deputies takes care of it and agrees on the funds for such investments and does not have them mapped out and will not know the implications of this bill at all, so that we can say yes, we will cover, or the State will cover your costs with it, so that it is suicide to impose such obligations on cities and municipalities. These impacts are already today, because I, as the former mayor of the larger city and the current representative of the small community from practice, have to say that the primary school and kindergarten directors are just starting to concern themselves with which children from other municipalities in which they are not primary and kindergarten schools, or, in particular, the kindergarten, if we force them to build capacity there, will have to leave the kindergarten, which is to be set up by the municipality, to fill the capacity of children from its given community. Because some parents, and this will be a very unpleasant message for them, will learn that the community setting up its kindergarten will give priority to its citizen, a family with a permanent residence in the village. And if you're out of town, you're out of luck. [[16.50 hours]] And what Mr. Vilímec said, when I saw that the Minister here was wondering, when Mr. Vilímec's fellow Member told her, if she was not in kindergarten, no one would take the child. No one's gonna wear that shirt to take more kids. What if somebody gets hurt, for God's sake? And it'll be out of capacity. So he won't take them. Parents who may have a child, i.e. at three years old, will be there at four years old, and by five years old, the kindergarten will have full capacity, because it will have to be filled with children who have to go to school, and so the kids after a year or two who go to school will have to leave it and have to find a place elsewhere. Maybe it won't be such a big deal in cities. Maybe. I'm saying maybe because no one actually did a proper impact analysis of this step. And that is one of the things the mayors and especially the mayors of small communities see, because it will fall on them. Then they will be responsible and explain to those people that there is no place for them to cry out for. I think there was only formal consent and support for some of the captains, because when I spoke to the captains, they weren't all very happy about it. It was after inclusion - yes, I agree that inclusion is not the subject of this bill, but inclusion means further financial requirements for school founders. More trouble that will bring them. And this is another brick for the marasto. When you look at the budgets of municipalities, and this is also something that we lack, the budgets of municipalities that set up primary and kindergarten schools are very burdened with operation. They're holding because it's important to them, it's one of the key things for them, but you're putting more systemic changes on them without finding systemic funds and you're able to tell those school founders that you're gonna have to cover their capacities. As a man with a 14 - month - old son at home today, I can't imagine being in a situation where I should take my son to kindergarten in six months. I think a two-year-old just doesn't belong in kindergarten. That we're making this a social benefit rather than dealing with the education system, and I'm gonna say, effort, or they're gonna make an effort to get the kids ready for school age. Although I often disagree with Mr President, I share his opinion in this regard. I am glad that the law has returned to the Chamber of Deputies, however clearly I am aware that... [[A silence for a loud noise in the hall.]] Admit it, Mr President... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u37	Okay. I will therefore ask Mrs Maxová and Mrs Kubíček to keep it down, President Sklenák to keep it down and all the others who cancel the call to go to the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u38	If the state wants to help families with children, then it doesn't deal with the way it opens nursery schools and basically makes them pseudo-bait, but it's supposed to do it in the field of social affairs. If he wants to support families with young children, then he's supposed to do it the other way, but not by actually telling the mothers: "You can put the baby away at two years of kindergarten and it's a room, right? The state took care of it, the municipalities paid for it, and we're going along the black rock carriage. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that the President's veto will be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u39	Thank you. I note two factual points, the first Mr Birke, followed by Mr Opálka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, although I very much appreciate Petr Bendl through you, his experience in local politics, I cannot agree with him here for three reasons. Just three short notes. You cannot compare all 6 300 municipalities that we have in the Czech Republic, which establish kindergartens and primary schools. This simply cannot be done because the region from the region is a completely different situation within the geographical curve. That's indisputable. You are talking about the Central Bohemia Region most likely, and we in the Hradec Králové Region have a completely reversed situation where we have absolutely free capacity in kindergarten. That's why I'm saying it's a little incomparable. And then, first of all, it's for city management to predict and expect this situation, which, of course, will happen to them in the school bill amendment, and in my opinion, if they're literate, and I assume they're a lot of literate mayors and mayors, they'll make it. I don't see any problem with that. But, of course, we can have different opinions. Obviously, we have them. But at this point, I beg to differ. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u41	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Opálka, Mr Bendl and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, there is much I would like to support in this bill. However, there is such a systemic change that Mrs Semelová mentioned that our club will not support this law. But when I listen to the psychics about kindergarten schools, I have to put into context the discussion that has been going on here to the children's groups, and somehow it doesn't work for me. For children's groups, there are the same reasons we give for kindergarten, they didn't bother us, and here we bother. I'd also prefer it if they were a nursery within three years, and from three years of kindergarten. But I don't like the difference in access to every law differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u43	Thank you. Now, with Mr Bendl's point of fact, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u44	Thank you. To the Margo of Honored Mr Birke, with all due respect. It is precisely because in the six thousand municipalities, or in the thousands of municipalities that kindergartens and elementary schools set up, every condition is different, so to sew on one single compartment into which they are obliged to fit, when, in addition, the majority of the mayors say that it is nonsense that it can be defended, and I did not go into details of the type: something else is securing investment and something else is securing operating costs and holding those capacities and holding those cantors etc. etc. The Minister of Education doesn't have that. It's all on the water at all. And the fact that we in Central Bohemia have huge differences, that somewhere our children almost fall out of our windows because there is no place in primary and kindergartens, and in other places, kindergartens are half-empty, but there is no reason to force people to put in kindergarten schools from the age of five. It doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Adamec, Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u46	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to say something else in those two minutes. I hear economic reasons here. We are a city with 32,000 inhabitants, and we have a manger. And I always thought the nursery would serve for the socially weakest, single mothers. What was my surprise that the greatest pressure on the nursery was from doctors and similar professions. It's not really about that. As far as kindergartens are concerned, it is clear that after the boom that ended some two years ago, the capacity will definitely be in cities, except for some exceptions, maybe in big cities, but the problem is really, and it fell here that about 40,000 children are already two-year-olds, respectively. I'd say, between two and three years, they're already in kindergarten. Yes, you're right. That's right. But in kindergartens, at least in our country, children who are capable of self-service in basic hygiene. This means that they are not a burden for teachers who have to take care of them in this area, but are already able to take care of themselves and are able to integrate into the collective. You know, I think the inclusion of children this early in the children's group, I have a big problem with it, I really think the baby's supposed to be in the family, she's supposed to be with her mom, she should enjoy it for at least three years, maybe even longer. When I think of the words of Professor Matějíček, who promoted this idea, I feel that some of you do not know the name. I will also not vote against the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u47	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Stanjura, Mr Fiedler will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u48	I, according to the Rules of Procedure, respond to the words of my previous speakers, and then, with a longer speech, I will speak after President Mihol. But an honored colleague, Mr Birke, also the mayor of the city, can predict, and I admire him for how many children will be boarding, like two-year-olds, in 2020 in kindergarten. But these kids are only born in two years, and you'll be counting and building capacity this year or next year. I admire such flat-rate speech - the mayor is planning the number of children, you have plus three years, but we already know according to your proposal that in 2020 every two-year-old child will be entitled, respectively, from 1 September 2020, to say exactly that. Those kids aren't born yet. And if you mean it and say it's a claim, then a reasonable mayor to accommodate your neomarxistic vision of the world will say: well, that's about 100 percent of children and parents, because they're entitled to it. So he's going to build the capacity of a kindergarten for five years. Not on three like we used to. Because children don't leave a large majority, or in many cases at six years of kindergarten. So suddenly we have a five-year cultural neo-Marxist pre-school education. Five years old! On top of that, 9 years and 4 and 5, figure out how long education will take. Is that normal? I don't think it's normal. And it's impossible to plan. This year you can plan maximum year 2018, maybe 2019 if you receive continuously numbers from the registry, how many children are born in the fall circuit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u49	Have a good evening. I thank Prime Minister Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler, followed by Mr Opálka. Mr Mihola, then with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I must say that such an interesting debate on the law, which - I hope my colleagues listened - has not been here for a long time, or - has been very informative. I'm just glad we made it clear that this isn't about inclusion, that it's already gone. That we're not deciding on inclusion. I understand what Mr Bendl and my colleague Mr Stanjura said, and I agree with that. Let's just let the worries sort it out, let them manage for themselves, make the decisions. Let's not set them up in advance. Let's not give them the responsibilities to do anything. I think it also depends on the size of the community. A small village, a big city, employment, various professions of people, as we have heard. It is not about social cases at all, on the contrary, often in the nursery, as we have heard here, children are given by people with higher education, doing so for career reasons. I'm sure this debate has helped me, and I'm clear. Even though I hesitated a little bit about how I was going to decide, this debate helped me, I'm clear, and I'm going to support the President's veto. And don't forget, we're not deciding on inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u51	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. After all, I'd like to respond to the planning. You know, he's a reasonable man planning in the family. It's not Marxist. It's simply based on the fact that a person has to plan if he wants to distinguish himself from animals. But you know what struck me the most? That it was called into question that we do not know what will be needed for children in kindergartens, but we have made a plan by 2100 as to how it will be with pension reform. The plan was based on all the right-wing governments that decided on pension reform in the previous parliamentary term. And planning until 2100, that's really crystal ball divination. So just to put it in such contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u53	I thank Mr Opálek. With another factual remark by Mrs Nina Nováková, after whom Mr Foldyna. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that our decision on how we are going to vote should not be based on the relationship we have with the President, whether we want to support or not support the President's veto, but the President has already graduated from his school, but we are now concerned about how children will have it in our schools in future years. The TOP 09 Club cannot support this amendment, but it is for the same reasons for which it could not support it before it went to the Senate or when the President somehow approached it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u55	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make this very clear. Despite our clear relationship with Mr President, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u57	Well, that was clear and accurate. Now - I'm sorry, with the de facto remark of Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u58	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I am very sorry that those who have fought so hard for individual home education at second grade will now voluntarily sink it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u59	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u60	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has undergone a very broad discussion not only here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, in committees, but also in the Senate and in many other places, for example in various seminars and so on. Like other school amendments and, after all, many other bills are, to a large extent, a compromise, quite logically. Madam Secretary knows that I, as a person who has worked in education for over 20 years, have many things, I hope constructively, but criticized, with some I did not agree with, but this is how I perceive it, that no one can possibly achieve what he would have imagined as ideal. I'm certainly not a fan of the compulsory year in kindergarten, I said that repeatedly, but we have promoted the possibility of home education, and here we have to say that with a very simple solution. They are entitled to kindergarten in different countries, such as neighbouring Germany, where we have inspired ourselves, something functional and certainly commendable. I do not agree, of course, with children being in kindergarten from the age of two, but that is no obligation. I understand those who take advantage - they simply require this measure because they take advantage of measures that allow them to set up maternity leave. I mean, when my mother gets back to work after two years, she logically claims the kindergarten. I don't think it's right, but here I perceive the rationality of this reasoning and respect it. Outside the framework of the amendment to the school law, domestic or individual education at the second grade of primary school has succeeded across the political clubs here. I'm rejecting the haunting from the left, and I'm not commenting on it because it sounds repeatedly, and it's unwarranted. I believe that after all these discussions, those colleagues who have not forgiven themselves for the remarks again know that. The important thing is that there will be a comprehensive system of home education throughout compulsory schooling. Finally, I would like to say that I will support the amendment to the school law, and as a guarantor for education in KDU-ČSL, I have asked all members of our club to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another priority right, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u62	So that the debate isn't just about two-year-olds to kindergarten and those capacities that, if the law passes, they have to prepare for self-government. He just has to. It is not, as President Mihola said, that the parent can decide whether the claim, if you law it, because we do not apply, on the other hand, the self-government must count on everyone using it, otherwise it can rightly be criticized that it does not comply with the law. And someone can complain that they couldn't exercise that right. I think there's little to say here that the bill is really ideologically colored, and I think it's dangerous as a result. In her public opinion, the Minister brings further dangerous proposals on how to disrupt, for example, regional education funding, etc. And let's try to get back to the debate in our first, second, third reading, when we were talking about uniform SATs. One of the main drivers and media-interesting topics that the Secretary of State likes to talk about, but in fact, it's completely useless. Remember what the secretary said when we asked if there would be any limits to who granted who didn't comply. Well, they won't. Every school will draw a line where it sees fit. I'm paraphrasing that and quoting maybe not exactly the secretary. So I'm asking what it's for. What good is centralization and unification if minimum conditions are not laid down for a student who is applying to one of the high schools. The answer is very simple. It is completely useless for the state, completely useless for the schools, completely useless for the parents, but it is good for those who will invent and evaluate it and say every year: We have given heavy tests and weak tests and we have overdone it in the math, but in the Czech language we did it etc. So what's the point of a single audition if every school can accept whomever it wants, and the line, whether it's satisfied or not, is every headmaster gonna make it? Which, by the way, is correct. I'm not criticizing this attitude, I'm just asking why it has to happen. Well, because our dear left has long held that the state knows best. And it would be best if there was one high school of one type. And who has any modern circles, for example, would educate students about gender-balanced positions, he would receive a grant, or about sustainable development or climate change, so those schools would receive more money, are progressive, modern, and, on the contrary, those traditional schools that will cling to the children's ability to read, write, and count are already so outdated, unmodern. Let's just talk about the competences, let's not talk about the knowledge. The knowledge is so annoying. Those students would have to know something. Let's just develop the soft powers, that's modern, isn't it? That's the wrong way to go. If we want to be competitive, our basic education should be traditional in my opinion and schools should be normal or standard if you want, not that they are already specialized. Next time, we'll specialize in kindergarten. Who hasn't read Woody Woody's Allen about how they didn't get a kid to a prestigious kindergarten in Manhattan, so please read it. It's worth it. I think the absurd story is enough to tell us not to overdo it with ambition to enroll a child in a prestigious kindergarten. But that's where this bill goes. Compulsory senior year of kindergarten. It's not mandatory, as the Minister said, when you come to a disgraceful examination, or when you're being checked by the Social Services Department, maybe they'll let you leave the baby at home. Today we have a number in kindergarten schools - I remember the number when I was still working in the Prague council, at that time in the Moravian-Silesian Region, about 97 percent of children attended nursery schools in the last preschool year. Is that a problem to solve? Well, it is because the modern left wants to be 100 percent. 97 is low, and the 3%, they're just suspicious, so let's take a look at them. This is another key point in this amendment, which the Minister is so fond of talking about. So entitlement for two-year-olds, mandatory senior year, i.e. de facto extending schooling to ten years, and uniform exams, which are completely useless, because everyone then arranges for the children's income as they wish. So consider for yourself whether these three points are worth influencing the political prestige and position of the Minister in the government, within social democracy, etc. Let's drop these political considerations, they don't belong here at all. On the contrary, I think the Minister would have contributed to the prestige if she said, "We've gone a little too far." The village is afraid of that. So we leave the Members to vote freely, non-binding. And if it doesn't work out, it's okay, we'll keep debating. And maybe she wouldn't just communicate with the Union of Cities and Cities, but maybe she could find a match with the Union of Cities and Cities, because there's nothing worse than that you've discussed something. Speaking of education. I'm a member of the board of directors of a university, so that's where you discuss the budget. When I was there for the first time, I came prepared the same way you're adopting a city or a state budget, I had amendments and this. And then they said to me: Attention, esteemed member of the board of directors of our great university, the law says to discuss, that means we open it here, you say what you want. The minutes will say that the board of directors has discussed and done. Well, that's how it really is. I think it's a matter of debate if such a board of directors makes sense. I don't think he has any competence, or no competence, because it's just that I've discussed something, and it's a similar case. All of you have colleagues in community policy, so ask them if their professional organization's opinion is really so bad, if they really welcome it. We always deal with the problem late. It's possible that the Ministry will then issue some kind of grant title, or the Ministry of Finance. But it's completely unnecessary. We have two solutions for those who have a problem with the flow circuits that are being applied by our mayors. One case is Trutnov Ivan Adamec, where they have one kindergarten and everything else is individual workplaces. And the second case of my native Opava, where we've established that we've got a single circuit in the whole city. That's how we comply with the law and leave it up to our parents. Among other things, we also increase competition between kindergartens to offer services that will be interesting to parents. For example, longer working hours in the afternoon are much better than driving children there at 6:00 a.m. or 7:00 a.m. These are all the reasons we have repeatedly said here. I'm afraid you haven't heard from them. We haven't changed our mind, so we'll vote no. I'd like to say to those of the government coalition who don't like it: so don't worry, if the law doesn't pass, the secretary stays in office, it doesn't reduce her political seriousness, it doesn't reduce her political prestige. On the contrary. I think that many parents and the ministry will thank you for a prudent approach. And we can debate in the next few months. Do we feel like this isn't working? Does any of you feel like kindergarten isn't working? Whoever has that feeling, come in, say it, say why, and what he wants to do with it. I don't feel that way. I mean, if something works, we're not supposed to try anything, experiment anything, we're not supposed to introduce more and more responsibilities. I really think that interviewing or, as I would call it, developing from the obligation to have a child in the last school year is something humiliating that we would not have to introduce into our legislation. So consider this once again, especially you, members of the government coalition, who like to say that you are right-wing, that you have a right-wing view of the world, so do not succumb to the left-wing ideological idea. I respect her, I just disagree with the fact that the state knows best that institutional care is better than family care, etc. Today you will be able to show right or left-wing respect for this political view of our ideal opponents and opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u63	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Jiří Holeček, then Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say the following. The education and knowledge level of our high school students who apply to universities has deteriorated considerably since the Velvet Revolution. We need to do something about it. I welcome the Ministry's actions to try to unify the graduation exam in this respect, as it was when I passed the graduation exam. Our generation was knowledgeably better off. Many universities had to reduce the level of admission procedures at universities in order to have enough students at all. Mother's kindergarten is at least so few in my town that I had to go over three hills to get into some kindergarten. There are no nursery in my district, so I welcome, of course, that kindergartens will be able to receive and parents will be entitled to receive children from the age of two. You must also think that we are not here, as my colleague Bendl said, for example, that he was thinking about municipal policies. That's nice of him, but I think we need to think of citizens, not local politicians, that they will have a problem with capacity. And that there will be a different system of education for those two-year-olds, of course. But that's what the D.O.D. is counting on. So here it really is, this law is for people, and I am sorry that colleagues from the left, from the very left, as I learned, do not want to support the law, because there is probably no superlaw, but more kindergartens or the possibility of single moms or single parents placing a child from two years old will be beneficial because they have to support their family somehow. So I think that the law would be good to support. [[Time warning]] Thanks for the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u65	Thank you, Mr Holečka. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, after whom President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u66	Mr President, Mr Stanjura asked here who is unhappy with the situation in kindergarten, with accessibility and so on. I'm one of them. And as the coalition program agreed, the government's declaration of expansion of kindergarten capacity, including pre-school preparation, was put into the coalition program, so it was just a consequence of this condition. The specific things that bring about the current state of affairs are reflected in a high percentage of delays in taking up the first class. It is known from the world that when these things are better captured here at preschool level and kindergarten level, the result looks much better. I would point out that the extension of the availability of nursery schools from two years - by the way, this has already been said in the newspaper statements before submitting this law in August 2015 by the Minister, so, for example, the Union of Cities and Municipalities has had the opportunity to discuss this here on the grounds of the guarantee committee, never taking advantage - so that this expands, improves the employment of parents, improves their involvement in work, in what is called the creation of a gross domestic product in the growing economy, and will certainly bring benefits to us as citizens. To the dichotomy, whether left-wing or right-wing: when a man is right-wing, he doesn't have to be stupid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u67	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. With a point of fact, President Stanjura, Mr Bendl after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u68	Well, if I may, for Mr. Holeček, by your means. That's a really sad sentence, I'm sorry you said: to improve the education of two-year-olds. I'm really scared of this. No, really, I'm not joking. I'm serious. Don't educate two-year-olds. It's too soon. But I volunteered for a factual reminder of the old-fashioned view of us elders that we were better, more educated, smarter. I don't think so. But there were so many fewer of us in those colleges. That's the problem. If this were true as it used to be, 12-13 percent of the year goes to college, the quality of college students would be about the same as when we studied. So let's not tell young people today that they're not as smart as we were. If they studied 60 percent, 65 percent, 70 percent of the population class in our years, it would look completely different. We know very well what the problem was for us who didn't get into college and we'd have to go to a two-year service. That was a motivation to learn well, make a good entrance exam, and escape that stupid two-year service when I say it so openly. And we fought for the high schools. Today, even if there was a mandatory military service, it doesn't matter. Today, basically, everyone who graduates will find a place in college and will easily repeat their first year several times, and nothing happens because you believe that paying for college education is not meant to be paid, and even those who study repeatedly increase the costs in the system. But please, let us not have the ambition to improve the education of two-year-olds, and certainly not in state or public establishments. I think it's really too soon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u69	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now there's a whirlwind of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Bendl, after him Mr Fiedler, after him Mrs Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u70	I didn't want to perform anymore, but I have to respond. [[Big noise, screams and laughter in the hall.]] There's nothing we can do. It didn't work out. I meant well, but it turned out like it always did. To the Margo of Mr Jiří Holeček, through the President and Mr Zlatuška. This doesn't extend the possibility of getting room for your child. On the contrary. The founders won't get a crown. They won't if we don't give them anything, not a single capacitive spot. If you're putting a child somewhere beyond the mountains, then put it behind the mountain nines next time, because if you have one kindergarten, this law doesn't bring you any investment in kindergarten education. It brings more and more places to the municipalities where they will not have space, and if they do not have them, take a hair on your palm. The secretary has nothing. It will only order cities and municipalities to create space, but it does not offer them any money. Nothing to make sure that tomorrow, when they start building that they will not only invest it, but also keep it operational, that they will be able to do so. There's no such thing. Really, look for a place beyond the nine mountains, not just beyond the mountains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u71	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler, Mrs Semelová, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u72	Thank you. I don't want to discuss whether the knowledge of contemporary students is lower or higher, although I have a clear view of it, but there's no way I think it's the single test, although it certainly has its positives, that would solve this. This is preceded by a number of other things in gradual education, in successive years. The rehearsal doesn't solve it. But to sum up the debate, the debate, I will be very brief. From what has been said here, perhaps many of us - according to the table 175 present - if he votes yes, I think it will be a compromise yes for a lot of Members, and if they vote no, it will be a compromise no for a lot of Members. Let's be aware that we've all probably considered all the positives, all the negatives, and that here, even if everyone pushes the button yes or no, it won't be quite clear and a lot of us have considered how I finally decided, as I said in the last post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u73	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mrs Semelová. After that, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u74	Thank you. By your means, I wanted to respond to the smiling performance of my colleague Stanjura when he spoke about the quality of education. You know, if you came to ask teachers at universities what they're going to do, teachers at secondary schools, what they have to receive, and teachers at primary schools, as the quality of education has fallen sharply, you'd probably talk differently. It is also the fact that, in the past, what was good here broke down, and that was the basic education that provided the quality. And that's what it's all about. [[17.30 hours]] And when it comes to discussing whether or not they are in kindergartens - if the nursery schools were not to be interrupted, if the nursery were not to be canceled, we did not have to solve these problems here. But at this point, I really appreciate the hat down in front of the mayors who kept the nursery. However, in many places they are in minimal numbers and replace it with a private nursery where, of course, those who are socially weaker do not put their children, because they do not have it because it costs up to 20,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u75	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. So far, the last point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u76	Apparently there are MPs here who think that today's youth is dumber than when we were young. I just don't think so. If we want to help self-government, let's try to focus on two other areas that apply today. The state has ordered that the last year of kindergarten is free for children. That's what the state ordered. But it's for the community. And second experience. Try to reconstruct an older little kindergarten. What's gonna happen to you? Hygiene will come and your capacity will be reduced. So if you have old toilets, old sinks, for example, you have the capacity of 50 children in small kindergartens, which I like. When hygiene comes in during reconstruction, it simply reduces your capacity, because other standards are already in place, other numbers. So when you have a better social background for children, you're reducing your capacity. These are exactly the areas where we should focus our attention when we want to help self-government. It would be quite cheap, it wouldn't cost us that much. Just leave a little hygiene in her starting positions. Don't always get worked up about how they're gonna deal with the number of washbasins in kindergarten. And then they tell you, that's nice, you've got it really nice, modern, but you can't have 50 kids in there anymore, but you can only have 42. So you're investing a lot of money, and you're going to reduce the capacity of a specific kindergarten. And these are things the state can do, and that is concrete aid to self-government. Not to give them more and more responsibilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u77	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Article 50 (1) (a) 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. Please set the necessary number of votes, that's 101. First, I'm going to check you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on a law amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended by the House of Press 611/7." [[Education law]] I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 25, registered as 176 Members of Parliament, for 106, against 64. The motion was accepted. I state that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. Thank you, Minister. Before we proceed to discuss the bills passed by the Senate, I propose that, at the request of the President of the Senate, the House allow Senators Miroslav Antl, Jan Hajda, Karel Kratochvíle, Zbyněk Linhart, Libor Michálek and Petr Šilar to appear in the Chamber of Deputies. Information on the Senate amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. Sorry, there's still a vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it happens once or twice every four years, but I voted yes, and I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote, it's only for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-002-001.u79	Thank you. So I ask again and we will vote on who agrees with the performance of the appointed senators. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 26, 175 Members and Members are registered, for 160, against 2. The motion was accepted. I welcome the senators, Senator Antl, among us. The next item is:
