ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u1	161. Government bill amending Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 750/ - third reading The seat at the rapporteur's table is kept by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Budget Committee. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 750/3, which was delivered to you on 1 June 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 750/4. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of my speech will be to set right the misinformation and half-truths that were heard on press 750 in the second reading of the bill. First of all, I would like to respond here to repeated claims that the Ministry of Finance has arbitrary interpretation of European law and, contrary to its content, it intends to prevent the proposed bill from providing insurance companies with a wide range of financial services or even creating imbalances in the business environment in the financial market. Unification of the form of authorisation within the EU, not over-licensing. The opposite, however, is true. The change made in the definition of insurance activity is a change aimed at uniting the form of an authorisation to carry out insurance activities between EU Member States, not substantially changing the scope of the activities that insurance undertakings can carry out. In any case, the Ministry does not narrow down the scope of the activities of insurance undertakings, but merely makes their operation subject to the demonstration by the Czech National Bank as a supervisory authority that these activities directly result from the authorised insurance activity. The insurance activity consists primarily of the conclusion of insurance contracts relating to risks falling within individual insurance sectors. It is only up to the Czech National Bank to assess for each insurance undertaking whether the activity carried out directly results from the authorised insurance activity. This concept of the scope of the activity of insurance companies was incorporated into the draft law in agreement with the CNB and with regard to the newly established Solvency Capital Requirements under the Solvency II Directive, already in 2012, and thus the draft law was sent to you on 25 February 2015 as a print 414. However, no amendment has been tabled to the amendment in question for a long period of discussion of this House's press. The question of the scope of the activities directly arising from the authorised insurance activity was opened in connection with the new presentation of the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, without a doubt on the basis of the economic interests of certain insurance undertakings in order to save the costs of transferring activities which would be difficult to justify as activities directly arising from the insurance activity to a subsidiary. Among other things, the amendments tabled by Members Zbyněk Stanjura and Zdeněk Syblík, who are completely identical, including a grammatical error in the justification, correspond to the proposal that was consulted with the Czech Association of Insurance Companies, the Ministry and the Czech National Bank. The amendment to the definition of insurance activity was also assessed by the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government, whose task is to assess the compatibility of the draft law with EU law, and the draft law was assessed as fully compatible with EU law. The compatibility department was asked about their compatibility and relevance to the EU Directive to the amendments in question. In his view, the insurance undertaking may only engage in brokering activities in sectors for which it has a permit to operate. In other sectors, it must not engage in this activity, as the Directive explicitly states. And in relation to insurance industries, the interpretation of this concept is sufficiently precise in the government proposal, i.e. newly specified reference to activities directly arising from the authorised insurance activity. So let us ask ourselves what is the real reason for this sudden change and the search for examples in other Member States for the defence of the proposed change. The answer is simple. The point is that those activities for which an insurance undertaking might have a problem defending them as directly arising from their insurance activity are listed directly in the Act as those which are always part of the authorised insurance business, regardless of the nature of the insurance sectors in operation. This is to prevent the CNB as a supervisory authority from questioning the operation of these activities. In fact, it is simply an effort to keep some intermediary networks open on behalf of a large insurance undertaking. Small insurance companies or specialised intermediary firms do not concern this problem. On Mr Stanjura's critical remark on the grammatical incorrectness of the pre-negotiated press, I state that, as regards the text of paragraph 10 of the present Government Bill, the text must be read from the introductory wording of Section 3 (1). 1 this is: for the purposes of this Act, it is understood. If we read this provision in the context, we find that it does not contain any grammatical incorrectness. On the arguments put forward by Mr Stanjura, who argued with the views of the Ministry of Finance, I will then state the following. First, the argument in relation to operations directly arising from the insurance activity. It is true that there is no complete list of these operations. It can't even exist. This is without prejudice to the nature of the insurance activity of the conclusion of insurance contracts whereby the insurance undertaking assumes the insurance risk within the scope of the insurance cover agreed. In the same way, we agree with the proposers of the amendment that these obligations directly result from activities such as insurance management, insurance liquidation, the provision of assistance services, investment, passive reinsurance or preventive activities, as well as those which are owned by every business. If the Ministry insisted on such defined insurance activities, the petitioners of the amendments would be right that this is a disproportionately restrictive interpretation of the directive. But that's not the case. The Ministry of Finance is submitting a proposal that does not in any way close the scope of insurance activity. The nature of the problem lies in the scope of the activities to be assessed in the context of authorised insurance sectors. However, these need to be assessed individually, which is the subject of the activities of the Czech National Bank as a supervisory authority. The Ministry of Finance thus respects the fundamental principles laid down by European law and the resulting supreme status of the supervisory authority, under whose competence and responsibility the granting of authorisations for the operation of insurance activities falls. In no way does it defend itself with alibi hiding as a Brussels regulation, but it considers it a proper implementation of European law. If I mentioned European law, then I must remind you that there is a difference in the scope of authorised insurance and reinsurance activities. In the case of reinsurance, the activity may be extended to the holding company's function and to financial sector activities, which is not included in the definition of the insurance activity. Secondly, the difference between the other Member States is, although the provisions of Articles 14 and 18 of the Solvency II Directive are similar in terms of their content to the corresponding provisions of the previous Directives, that until now neither the European Commission nor the EU Court of Justice has defined in more detail what the activities directly arising from the insurance activity are. However, even the examples given in practice by only a few Member States do not clearly indicate that the provision of other financial services by the insurance undertaking would be considered as part of the insurance business. [[11.40 hours]] And if Mr Stanjura is so pleased to emphasise the logic in the assessment of the draft legislation, then the claim that lending or building savings is an activity directly arising from insurance activity lacks any logic. If we carefully evaluate the arguments of the petitioners of the amendments, we cannot ignore completely contradictory positions. On the one hand, the argument is based on the content of the activities directly arising from the authorised activity, knowing that the insurance undertaking is not to carry out any business other than the insurance activity, but on the other hand, it is argued directly that the insurance undertaking is to fall under the obligations laid down by special laws in the case of other activities, with the CNB possibly to license such activity separately. This method of granting the CNB authorisation cannot be considered to be consistent with EU legislation. On the third issue of the Single European Passport. The purpose of unifying the conditions for granting an authorisation to carry out an insurance activity within the EU, so-called a single European passport is primarily the creation and proper functioning of the European insurance market. If we approach the logic of the petitioners of the amendments, the Member States could voluntarily expand the subject matter of this activity due to a non-unified assessment of the authorised activities of the insurance undertaking. Ad absurdum could thus be operated by an insurance company to operate technical inspection stations, which is related to insurance of vehicles, or to ensure the disposal of biological waste, which is related to protection against infectious diseases. However, this would make the single European passport completely meaningless. If the insurance undertaking intends to operate in the host Member State, it must comply with the so-called notification obligations. If the supervisory authority of the host Member State considers the activity of such an insurance undertaking to be a breach of the equal competitive conditions of competitors in the insurance market, it would have to respond and address this issue at least at the level of the European Insurance Authority, where appropriate, of the European Commission. This would open up so much discussed issue related, i.e. not directly resulting activities. The Ministry does not consider that this has not yet taken place as a reason for arbitrary extension of the authorised activity beyond the scope of the directive. All the more so, it was not the purpose of the directive to create a Slovak, Austrian or Hungarian single European passport. The arguments put forward by Mr Stanjura in the context of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the light of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European It follows from its content that the directive under examination does not prohibit the insurance undertaking from holding a share in the capital of other legal persons participating in commercial activities other than insurance. It follows from the judgment of the EU Court of Justice in this case that the wording of Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 4 (1) (a) (b) that Directive is sufficiently precise and causes the inapplicability of any internal legislation incompatible with it. [[national?]] I recall that Article reads: "The home Member State requires that any insurance undertaking applying for authorisation restricts its business subject to insurance activities and operations directly resulting therefrom, excluding all other business activities'. The amendments should therefore be answered not only by the Ministry but also by the CNB to the questions of how Solvency II is to be assessed in terms of Solvency Capital Requirements, the activity of insurance undertakings which is not risky in the insurance business and which would automatically be considered as an activity arising from insurance activities in the event of the adoption of the proposals in question. Neither the Directives nor the relevant implementing regulations provide for the risks arising from such action. Fourthly, the question of the difference in the scope of the activities of banks and insurance companies. Very often, an example of the activities of banks which do not have such limited scope of activities and offer mediation of a number of insurance products was used as an argument. However, this example merely points to the omission of the fundamental differences between the activities of banks and insurance undertakings. Insurance is itself a risk trade and the aim of regulation is to prevent it from expanding in this field of business by further, not related business risks. Therefore, the legislation in both these areas is different and the regulation of credit institutions lacks such a restriction of activity. To sum up, the only argument for supplementing insurance activities on insurance mediation and other financial services is the legislation of several Member States, without the petitioners of the amendments stating anything more detailed about these adjustments. In Slovakia, insurance undertakings are allowed to provide other financial services, after prior approval by the supervisory authority and after fulfilment of the conditions laid down by other legislation. In Austria, only insurance activities and activities directly resulting therefrom may be carried out, which are considered, for example, to provide building savings, leasing or collective investment. However, in Germany, the activity of an insurance undertaking can only be extended to certain loans and insurance intermediation of other insurance undertakings. In France there is insurance mediation, in the Netherlands or the United Kingdom insurance companies can only carry out insurance activities, excluding other business activities. It is clear from this that the implementation of the directive by individual Member States cannot in any way conclude on the prevailing trend in the broader interpretation of the insurance activity, but, on the contrary, it is possible to trace the effort to limit the activity to the activities of insurance only and thus reduce the maximum risks to which insurance undertakings are exposed in the interests of all policyholders and beneficiaries of the insurance activity not to expand those risks and to properly measure and manage those necessary so that the insurance undertaking is able to meet its obligations at any time. In the end, this is also the sense of the new system of Solvency II. The Ministry's proposal therefore does not prohibit any of the activities directly resulting from the authorised insurance activity, reduces the competitiveness of Czech insurance companies, since insurance companies do not prevent them from carrying out any directly arising activity or from setting up subsidiaries. It does not go against the meaning and purpose of the Solvency II Directive and fully respects the position of the CNB as a supervisory body in the insurance sector arising from European legislation. On the contrary, Stanjura and Syblík's proposals do not comply with European law. They undermine the principles of a single European passport, enabling the activities of an insurance undertaking in the field of financial services to be of major importance than their own insurance activity without the ability of the CNB to supervise this activity properly in accordance with risk and oriented approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening up a debate in which Mr Dolejš, the rapporteur, first came forward. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u4	Unfortunately, by representing the rapporteur, I have a somewhat complicated role to play today, even in the fact that this time, unlike the Minister's position, I have to say that the Committee on Budgets has reached certain conclusions and they are different. We thought it would be easy for us to do this when our colleagues in the coalition agreed that this press would not be a carrier of some appendix that would solve other problems, as it happened to us last year over the 414 press. And whether it was legislative avant-urism or not, work it out, colleagues, in the coalition. But in any case, it was easier because, although delayed, the implementation of the Solvence II standard is certainly appropriate. And as if we voted in favour of something similar last year, it must also be said that late implementation is more than appropriate. But what was going on in the budget committee's debate showed the old well-known truth, i.e. that it can be implemented differently and that, of course, some kind of implementation triggers a reaction in the business that is involved here. And I have to say that this is where the reaction came from, and I guess it's not quite the fact that there's no restriction. That it would all be smooth and we just adopted the Brussels standard as they have it everywhere else in the European Union long before us. Then I guess this debate wouldn't have come up. Unfortunately, she was created because, of course, as the subject of the business in this design is modified, so many representatives of the insurance business have assumed that although they are not forbidden of course, it is not forbidden to engage in other financial services that they have been engaged in so far and which they have provided within a particular service complex. The truth is that it does not solve you with small ones, but all major insurance houses in this country are basically dedicated to providing the whole service complex, and they perceive it as a negative impact, because at least it will take time, but also the costs of proceedings that would be linked to this measure. [[11.50 hours]] And now the question is whether this is necessary means that the Brusel order is rigorous, or whether it is, say, our more extensive interpretation by which we anticipate a certain continuation of the direction that exists objectively in Europe, and that is the separation of the banking and insurance business as a relatively distinctive area, or whether we are going to continue to practice, and those views on the committee have been expressed which is not contrary to European law, and it can be demonstrated by European practice, because Solvence II has been here for some time. Some countries have already gone through this implementation. And yet the practice here is, all these mechanisms, notifications, etc. etc. So, of course, the question is whether we want such an extensive concept. And the proposals of fellow Stanjura and shadow and fellow Syblík address this, i.e. They return us to the original trough, which should not be contrary to the hard Brussels standard. That's the point. If the amendments have been voted on - I will now leave aside the amendment by the chairman of the budget committee of Mr Votava, he has not encountered the slightest problem, but I must say that, of course, the Committee on Budgets, which was present at the meeting that day, recommended the proposal by Mr Stanjura. So, of course, there's a contradiction here. I don't want to be a lawyer, but I have to interpret it with the fact that it is not as clear as the plaintiff, the Minister of Finance, said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now with priority rights, President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u6	Thank you for the floor. So before I get to the contents, something about the form. Note, second reading is under way, MEPs argue, raise questions, the Minister is silent, to read a long reaction at the third reading to what took place at the second reading, which - I have the hypothesis that the Minister did not write it, that it was prepared by the Ministry of Finance's employees. And that's the problem. I'm used to inventives from the Minister. If he says an invective to my address, I'll fight back or I'll pay him back. And you should all support me. We should beg officials to write invectives - Stanjura's proposal has no logic, etc. I beg your pardon. Your officials were unable to respond to the Committee on Budgets, they were unable to defend the Government's proposal to the Committee, the Committee on Budgets accepted it. And I beg the members of the budget committee and the rest of you - don't lose your pride! I know the Treasury Secretary will say he's against it. And what's changed besides hearing from the Treasury Secretary that he's against it? Do not lose your pride, you who have supported the proposal on the Committee on Budgets. But I can react now. I don't need a three-week break to send it to the analysts, write me a speech, and then read - I'd like to respond to Minister Babiš's third reading. And he contradicts himself. About four paragraphs before the end says how well it is in Germany. My proposal is similar to German legislation. So it's either good or bad in Germany. The alternate rapporteur also said key things. The amendment is not contrary to European law. It's not. And I already said that at second reading, Minister. There are two options. Either go the Austrian way, where Austria has specific financial products in its legislation, or go the way, such as Germany, Belgium, Italy, and have it in general wording, and then it will depend on the regulator, which is the Czech National Bank, whether or not to approve the license. If I simplify it, what's the point? If you accept the Government's version and oppose the Committee's expert recommendation, which you have every right to do, insurance companies will take this activity out of their parent companies and set up subsidiaries that can do it. This operation will cost hundreds of millions of crowns. Who's gonna pay for them? Who will pay if there is a legislative or additional cost due to a change in legislation? Clients. Definitely clients. They're not gonna cut the insurance company's profits. Why would they do that? After all, they're in business to make a profit. And that's right. So you have nothing to worry about, the amendment is not against European rules and European law. As the Minister said, there is no established practice in all countries, that is true. But I have appointed you quite significant long-term members of the European Union, such as Germany and Austria, where the model of specific financial products works in one, in the other general definition. I find it a really funny week after brexit, a week after brexit, to argue that Brusel wants us to do something and just not do anything against Brusel. I find it funny. Plus, if the proposed operation goes through as I said it would only create an additional hundred million-dollar cost, which will ultimately be borne by clients, those who conclude insurance contracts or other products. And we create an imbalance in the market. Because other entities operating on financial markets do not have such regulation and can compete freely in areas other than their core business activity. So it's not complicated, we don't have to say 30 times that it's Solvency II or Solvency II. But what's important - the insurance market works for us, doesn't it? Do you remember any problem, a big problem that any insurance company would cause in financial markets and in relation to clients? In my opinion, a good principle is that when something works and there are no problems, I don't interfere very much, because it's highly likely that your intervention will make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u7	Thank you to President Stanjur. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words, maybe. the rapporteur. Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask you, rapporteur, to introduce us to the voting procedure, to present the various amendments and to give us an opinion on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u8	The procedure itself isn't that complicated. I recommend that we proceed in this way, therefore it is the recommendation of the budgetary guarantee committee, that we first vote on Mr Votava's amendment, namely A, would be followed by B, which is Mr Stanjura, which has been mentioned here. And since Amendment C is identical, it makes no sense to vote twice the same thing, so we would make it unvoteable by voting on B, and then all we have left is a vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u9	I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal or a motion to change the procedure? It's not like that. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has put it. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 159 vote, 143 Members and Members signed up, for 143, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u10	So the first step is voting on proposal A, Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u11	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[The Committee recommends.]] Initiating vote on the proposal under letter A. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote of 160, registered 145 Members and Members, for 139, against none. Proposition A has been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u12	Proposal B by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u13	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommends.]] I am opening the vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal under letter B. Whoever is in favour, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 161 vote, 146 Members and Members registered, for 79, against 48. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u14	Thus, the unvoteable proposal C, which is identical, remains to be voted on the whole proposal, unless, of course, the previous vote is contested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u15	I'm gonna wait a little longer because there's a request for a vote check. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Mr Klučka reports with a vote check. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It really doesn't happen to me often. [[Laughter.]] I wanted to vote no, and I've got a pro on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. We shall vote on the proposal to challenge the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of accepting Mr Klučka's objection, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 162, 147 Members are registered, for 141, against none. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the vote on the proposal under letter B. Please, once again, the Minister's position. Disagree. The position of the guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u18	I cannot change what the Committee on Budgets has already said, i.e. recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u19	Agreed. Initiating vote on the motion under letter B. Anyone in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 163, 146 Members and Members, for 73, against 55. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u20	[[After a while:]] If everything's clear, we can talk about the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u21	Everything seems to be clear. We will therefore vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 750, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Also positive.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 164, 147 Members and Members registered, for 103, against 4. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-011-161.u22	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. First of all, allow me to state the apologies received from today's meeting, Mr jeroný Tejc from 13:00 for personal reasons and from 12:00 from Vice-President Bartošek to the end of today's meeting day. We will continue with the approved agenda item number
