ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u1	202. Oral inhalation The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. Before I give the word to the first drawer, allow me to load my apologies. From this afternoon's meeting, Minister Marksová apologizes, between 14:30 and 18:00 for reasons of work from today's day, Mr Sedlář apologizes. Between 14.30 and 18.00, for reasons of work, Mr Hájek apologizes. Mr Havíř apologizes for this afternoon's meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. And now we're going to interpellation. I give the floor to Mr Jaroslav Foldyn, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr Okamura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Good afternoon, colleagues. I have a question prepared for the Prime Minister. Of course, after this important issue about refugees and migration, I have a more prosaic issue, and it concerns our citizens in particular. Prime Minister, family support should be among the pillars of modern state policy. I believe that our state is modern, but the birth rate in the Czech Republic is still falling and many people are worried if they would bear the expense of the arrival of another child. Women have problems and concerns at work, to reconcile jobs, to reconcile family life. I would like to ask after these 25 years of savings, when it was first of all to save on these people, what steps our current government of the Czech Republic will take - sorry - will do. What steps is planned to support the family in order to strengthen its social stability and cohesion so that people simply feel that when they have a child, it is not something that should stop their family standards and lives. So what steps will the government take to change these things, to reconcile the work and family life? Does the current government really have that in mind? That's my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u3	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, there are already some things under the government programme that have been done, and then there are things that we want to open up a debate within the coalition that we would like to convince both coalition partners and, of course, most Members and senators. About the things that went well, I want to mention an increase in tax discounts for two or more children. Last year there was a first increase in this tax discount. She's ready again this year. Unfortunately, as a result of the slow discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, the law has not yet been passed, but it lies here and there is a chance that two or more children will have a higher tax discount. I am very supportive of this journey because it is about motivating working families with children, i.e. that they will have a better chance to keep more of their paychecks at the moment they take care of the children, they have two or more children and at the same time they work, i.e. they are still paying funds to the state in taxes. The second thing that I think is going on, and now it is all about really making use of it by municipalities and cities, is the use of European resources to strengthen the capacity of kindergarten schools. This was a big problem in the past, many municipalities and cities did not have their own resources. Today, in terms of increasing the capacity of nursery and primary schools, there is a better chance of using European funds. In fact, a big problem in terms of family functioning is the reconciliation of family and working life. Here I think that where there is no possibility of placing children in kindergartens, so that children's groups that have managed to land legislatively some time ago could help. But I think that what might also help is a proposal that we would like to discuss within the coalition is a modification of the parental contribution - not to save money, but to give mothers the opportunity to spend the same amount of money in less time. This means that those mothers who want or have the opportunity to return to work very quickly have the opportunity to take care of their children, or have the possibility of having facilities to take care of the child so that there is a chance of shortening the time to receive the parental allowance today, with the fact that, of course, there would be no reduction in the total financial amount. What I consider important at all for the functioning of family life is some help that could exist here in the sickness insurance system, and that is the possibility of having some leave for the caring person, i.e. have a leave of absence for nursing work, which is informally done by family members. It's a situation where you have to take care of your sick parents. It's not always possible to use some kind of social facility. I would very much like us to be able to give people the opportunity to take care of their parents within a few months of such a situation. Another topic that relates to the support of families with children and is, I think, very important is the debate that we have already opened and we are conducting within the government coalition. It concerns social contributions, social security contributions for those people who take care of children. The Ministry of Labour has prepared a proposal for people who care for children to be economically active, pay social security, have a chance to pay lower social security than those who do not care for children. It would be until the child reaches 18 years of age. Then the payment of social security would return to the original level. But once again, I think it's a very interesting possibility if we could agree on how to support families who are responsible and who are caring for children. A matter which is rather symbolic in scope, but I think it is a very important signal, is the question of the weekly father's postpartum care, i.e. As part of sickness insurance, we would very much like to allow men to participate in the care of a newborn child, so that there is a sickness insurance benefit of 70 per cent of the daily assessment base, which would allow their father, after the birth of the child, to take a father's weekly leave within six weeks of birth. Again, it is a kind of signal of how society could treat families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u5	Prime Minister, I'm sorry, your time. Mr Foldyna's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u6	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers, but I would like to ask an additional question, which is certainly not from the point of view. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, at what stage is the proposed law on support for single mothers now, which means so-called. replacement nutritious. At what stage - if you could just tell me roughly whether we'll see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u7	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u8	The proposal for replacement maintenance has been repeatedly presented here in the Chamber of Deputies in the past. I think we've repeatedly had a debate with him here. Its design is known, there are known possible problems associated with it. The Department of Labour prepared the proposal at the beginning of the parliamentary term and a coalition agreement is sought. I would very much like us to return as soon as possible to discuss this proposal at the level of the Coalition Council, to bring this proposal to the meeting by Minister Marksová, and I think that we should reach a decision and we should resolve this problem. I see this as one of the important commitments we have in the current parliamentary term. I don't think we can leave the subject open. When you look at what groups of people are most at risk of poverty in the Czech Republic today, they are parents, they are actually a single parent who is left to raise a child alone. Very often, it is in a situation where the other parent refuses to participate in the upbringing. There are no tools to force him, virtually. the tools are not being used effectively so that it really helps the family in real time. There's been a long lawsuit and all that. Here, I think society should have the ability to react. As far as we know objectively, and we know this for a number of years, at least since the social supplement that has helped these families has been abolished, so since the social supplement has been abolished, we know that this is an endangered category, it is people who take care of the children and are on their own and, of course, it is economical to note the stability of such a family. So, yes, it is one of the commitments that I would like very much for us to reach the end of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u9	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of the next draw in order, and that is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u10	Dear Prime Minister, you haven't answered my questions this morning, which is why I have to ask you again. Your government of the ČSSD, ANO and KDU-ČSL have agreed to accept thousands of illegal immigrants from Arab and African countries to the Czech Republic and you are now starting to implement your government plan by force and against the will of most citizens. Currently, your government is trying to move illegal immigrants into the town of Rabbit in eastern Bohemia. Citizens of Rabbit at Usteckoorlick are desperately resisting your vulgar dictatorship, and therefore, the day before yesterday, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD together with the citizens of Rabbit has declared a national petition to the citizens of the city of Rabbit in the Pardubice Region, as citizens are resisting the location of any type of immigrant facility in their city. And you ignore them. I was literally shocked that the citizens of Rabbit publicly told the press at our press conference two days ago that they had learned of your government's intention to place Facebook immigrants in their city. This is an incredibly awful way for the government to treat citizens, to despise them, to despise the citizens, to despise them. The citizens of Rabbit's decision by the government are subsequently threatened with increased crime, depreciation of property prices, departure of companies from the region, increased unemployment and social tensions. And I ask you directly: Did you agree to accept thousands of immigrants and allocate money to them at the expense of the necessary citizens of the Czech Republic? So tell me and the citizens of the Czech Republic on the level and without dialing out what specific locations you will place immigrants in the Czech Republic. And if you refuse to give the names of specific locations here, then tell me what types of localities, i.e. cities and municipalities, you consider suitable for the placement of immigrants. I therefore ask that, from your perspective, the citizens of these suitable cities and municipalities may begin to defend themselves in time, and I promise that I and our SPD movement will help all citizens to resist this incredible violent dictation of your government and the European Union, as we are now helping the citizens of Rabbit in opposition to your government, who have learned about the location of immigrants from Facebook. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u11	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u12	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like, first of all, to thank the citizens of the municipalities and cities, where the facilities of the Ministry of the Interior are located today, which allow the detachment of illegal migrants who come into our territory and are being held in check by police forces. I would like to thank the municipalities and cities where refugee facilities operate today, for people fleeing the war, for people fleeing persecution and under international treaties and under the laws of this Czech Republic, they have the right to provide asylum for these people before their persecution, to provide them with protection. I know that it is not easy in such municipalities and cities, that there is a need to find a way of cooperation, and I am convinced that such facilities, which operate today in the Czech Republic, operate in a very high standard of security assurance and in a very high standard of communication with their surroundings. I think that no one can deny the fact that such a facility where we can place refugees in the first phase of their stay in the Czech Republic, a facility where we will place illegal migrants at the moment when they are detained in our territory and it is not possible to return them immediately, that we need such facilities in the Czech Republic. The government is not seeking to build up excess capacity, but we must have the capacity that will be needed here. In recent years, we have seen that many of these facilities have been privatised, have been abolished, or have become prisons, and have simply not been envisaged in terms of some conceptual decision making that such a strong migration crisis may occur. Today we have the largest migration wave since the end of World War II. The biggest migration wave facing all Member States of the European Union. I think our people have experience with this, they know that our government is able to guarantee security in the Czech Republic. I would like to remind you that despite the fact that we are facing this strong migration crisis, the Czech Republic is not the target country of migration, we are lying on the edge of the main migration current and last year crime in the Czech Republic fell by 14 percent. So this is a clear result of the government's thinking about security, that we have stabilized the police and that we do not underestimate any security risks that might be linked to some aspects of this migration crisis as such. But I refuse to raise a senseless fear, I refuse to provoke hatred, animosity where there is no need for it, where there is no reason for it. Our government behaves in a responsible way, we follow the rules, we respect the laws, and we also require those who ask for help from us, for asylum, for international protection. Even these people must obey our laws, they must obey our rules, and those who obtain asylum on the basis of international standards in our country should also have the right to help us integrate them into our majority society. In addition to the security aspect, this is another important thing - the integration process, the ability of these people to integrate, to give them the opportunity to work, to give them the opportunity to learn our language well, to learn our culture. This is all part of the integration process and our government wants to improve the integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I think that no society can function as a completely closed society, no society can function on some closed ethnic principle. Every time something like this happened in the past, it only led to backwards and it led to degeneration. We have the right to decide how things will take place in the territory of our Republic. I am in favour of it being the Czech Government, who will decide on demographic developments here with us, who will decide on migration policy. I am in favour of taking into account all the risks associated with migration, but I am also in favour of this country operating on democratic principles and respecting human rights. Once again, I thank all citizens in the municipalities and cities who are involved in the fact that they can operate there in a quiet, decent atmosphere of facilities managed by the Ministry of the Interior and that take care of refugees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u13	Thank you. Mr Okamura wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u14	Prime Minister, when you talk about democracy, do allow citizens a referendum and a direct choice, the rebuttal of the politicians you have rejected and do not oppose their will. As far as 14 percent of the decline in crime is concerned, you forgot to add that it is due to the decline in criminality of Czech citizens and, on the contrary, the criminality of foreigners according to my data has risen from the police year on year, so you didn't tell the truth there a little bit. You know that the real migration wave is yet to come, and apparently it's controlled. You also wrote me back in your letter that when it comes to receiving refugees, your government has committed the Czech Republic to this in the framework of a Europe-wide agreement based on EU membership. So as long as the Czech Republic is under the dictation of the European Union, you will not solve anything, you will only speak out, you have no courage to really resist this invasion. And three times you have rejected our SPD movement here a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union or on the admission of immigrants so that citizens cannot express themselves. And please stop using the word refugees, they're illegal migrants, and finally answer my question of what locations you want to place these immigrants in. You didn't answer my question!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u15	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u16	I think it is clear that the migratory current that Europe is facing today, and which today comes particularly through the Balkans to Central and Western Europe, so the current is not homogeneous. He's really differentiated. If we look at the statistics we have at our disposal, half of these people are people who escaped from Syria. They are joined by war refugees fleeing Iraq. A number of Afghánec are also added. And I don't know if the situation in Afghanistan can be described as war, but the security situation is undoubtedly not peaceful. This would not be such a strong requirement for foreign engagement to remain there for some time. And, of course, these refugees before the war are joined by people who are not going to Europe because they are threatened with persecution or that war is raging in their country, but they are going to Europe because they want to find better existential opportunities. That means they're economic migrants. In a situation where there is an urgent need to take care of such a large number of people fleeing the war, it is not possible to automatically allow economic migrants into Europe's territory without regulation. The current is simply differentiated, and it certainly cannot be ruled out that among those people who come to Europe, so that the chaos is also being used by people who are radicalized, who are connected to Islamist radicals. But they are particularly taking advantage of the chaos that is at the external borders of the European Union, and it is precisely this chaos that needs to be prevented by the consistent protection of the external Schengen border and registration. Otherwise, I strongly disagree with what Mr Okamura has said here that perhaps we should leave the European Union. I think it would be a big mistake to come out of the European Union. The European Union is a guarantee of stability and is to a large extent also a guarantee of prosperity for citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I invite another winner to the microphone, allow me to load two apologies, Mrs Lorencová, who apologizes from today's day from 14.30 to the end of the day, and Mrs Berdychová from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now, I beg you, Mr Klučka, to the microphone, Mr Velebný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. First of all, allow me a small sigh of what great interest we are here today discussing an interpellation to the Prime Minister. As long as we're on a normal basis, we're getting these individual cases out of the way. Dear Prime Minister, there is often a question of wage valorisation among our citizens, if you want pension rates, I am correcting pension rates. The government managed to correct the freezing of valorisation introduced by the former Nečasův Right-wing Government and restore the valorisation of pensions according to inflation and wage growth. Personally, I think that the current measures and corrections made by the government are precisely due to the influence and because of low inflation accompanying good economic growth in the Czech Republic are proving insufficient. They do not fulfill the ideas of seniors about a happy life in old age, i.e. a time when a pension becomes the only income to ensure the living needs of these old people. Prime Minister, what is the current view and opinion of the government, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in this very sensitive and public area? I do not want an analysis here of the details of the coalition agreement, which is a fundamental document of government cooperation, but I ask you what are the current agreements within the coalition council in this crucial area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u19	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u20	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I think this is a serious political issue and I just want to make it clear that this issue will certainly arrive here in a short period of time on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I am extremely dissatisfied with the outcome of the pension valorisation in 2016. I must say that we have received information on how low this valuation will be, that it will only be 40 crowns, from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs until the last minute in the preparation of the state budget. During the whole time we were preparing the state budget for this year, we all, as members of the government, have been counting on this year's valorisation to be around a hundred crowns on average. At the last moment, we received up-to-date data from the officials of these two ministries and it turns out that the conditions for higher valorisation were not fulfilled. Why is it only the 40 crowns? This is because from September to August 2015, prices have risen by only 0.3 percent and pensions are valorized for inflation and pensions are also valorized by 1/3 of real wage growth, but there has been no real wage growth between 2012 and 2014. That means, this valorization, the fact that it's so low, is the result of the fact that our economy has stagnated and didn't grow real wages in recent years. Fortunately, this has changed since 2014 and to a much larger extent by 2015. So I assume that once the valuation for 2017 is calculated, it will be based on higher growth in real wages, but inflation will continue to be very low. How do you solve the problem? In my opinion, the system solution is not what we have chosen. We decided to compensate seniors and disabled pensioners for the extremely low valorization of 40 crowns, so we agreed in the government, and I am glad that Parliament also supported this, that in February we will pay each pensioner an old and every pensioner an invalid of 1,200 crowns. It is meant to compensate precisely for the low valuation, which is this year. But that's certainly not a system solution to match low valorisation with one-off contributions. I would rather be in favour of increasing the government's room for manoeuvre so that, in a situation where wages do not rise, the government has the opportunity to increase pensions on the basis of its decision, but at the same time I am in favour of the upper limit, which means that this is predictable and cannot lead to any disruption in the development of public budgets. I'm in favour of adjusting the pension system. We will discuss this at government level. Minister Marksová is preparing an appropriate bill amendment. I hope the government will support him, and then the proposal will be able to come here to the Chamber of Deputies. I would suggest that the limit should be about 1.7 percent, which means that it would ensure that the valorisation always moves around at least somewhere on average around that hundred crown, if the inflation is extremely low and the growth of real wages is extremely low. So up to 1.7 percent, I would support the idea of the government having room for manoeuvre. It would be a room for manoeuvre in favour of seniors, in favour of higher valorisation, but at the same time, the government could not succumb to temptation to lift pensions in a one-time period, such as before the elections, dramatically and disrupt the development of public budgets. So there's going to be an upper limit for the government's decision-making. I really want to thank the Chamber of Deputies once again. I think that this solution with compensation of CZK 1,200 for each senior, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies and then approved by the Senate, that this is a reasonable solution for this year, for 2016, and for 2017 I would like it if we had a modified rule and the government had a slightly larger room for manoeuvre, although I think the default parameters for pension valorisation will be better than the default parameters last year. Thanks to the fact that the economy has finally stopped stagnating, because real wages are finally starting to rise, parameters for the construction of pension valorisation could also be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u21	Thank you. The time has come for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So I must thank the Prime Minister for this, let's say, quite a comprehensive answer in a short time. But Prime Minister, I have one request, and maybe it is also a question of whether you and Secretary Marksová can agree at the moment that the 600,000 citizens who will be sent a letter saying that there is a danger, if they do not go into retirement insurance, into savings, etc., or especially those who pay the minimums, the minimum contributions, so there is a danger - could they also put in these letters basic information about the situation in which we did this and why we are doing it, and especially what happened in the past, so that they know where the problem of the 40 crowns is?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u23	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u24	It is actually a number of problems at the same time, what the Member has also opened in his supplementary question. I will try to respond very briefly. The first thing is that no such information is likely to get into the announcement of the extraordinary contribution. However, I would very much like the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to pay more attention and energy to explain to the citizens how pension valorisation is actually built, what are the basic assumptions on which this is taking place. That it is not the will of the government today, but that it is a reflection of the economic development that has been here in recent years. Well, if the economic development is bad in the long run, then unfortunately, it will also reflect on the level of pension valorisation. However, I am glad that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has launched an action that I think is useful and that people who are self-employed and have the opportunity to eventually choose a higher social security payment, so that they will actually receive for the first time from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs information on how low their pension will be if they pay only the legal minimum on social security contributions. I understand that there are a number of self-employed people who can't jump, they can't afford to pay higher contributions, on the other hand, it's very important that everyone who does business alone is one of the self-employed who knows that if he pays only minimum legal contributions, then he gets a very extremely low pension. And when I talk to people, with workers at the Czech Social Security Administration, they basically repeat stories that are very similar, they take place in all our regions, and they talk about how surprised and appalled some entrepreneurs are when they reach pension rights, their pensions are measured and in recent years and decades they have paid only the minimum rate of social security contributions. Unfortunately, in such a case, the pension is very low and entrepreneurs should be given this information on time. [[Your time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u25	Thank you. I ask another winner, and that is Mr Velebný to present his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Mr. Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister, once the results of the inspections of the Czech Trade Inspection have been published, there is once again a lot of talk about the issue of speedometering. Rotating speedometers is the most widespread failure in the sale of used vehicles. Czech consumers are so massively cheated, buying old passenger cars for multiple their real value. According to available information, approximately 42 percent of used cars have a curved tachometer. Unfortunately, the speedometer's fraudulent rotation is still increasing, because according to current legislation, rewinding the speedometer is not a criminal offence. Unfortunately, the long-term solution to the amendment to the law, which could limit this negotiation, has not yet reached its successful conclusion. In addition, autobazaars often write an agreement in their contracts that the seller is not responsible for the difference between reality and the state of the speedometer. It is at most time for our citizens and consumers to be better protected from frauds and to get rid of the label of a dirty car washing machine in Europe. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, how the government deals with this area, what it has done and what it is preparing for consumer protection in the automotive sector, but also in general for consumer protection in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u27	I thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u28	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I can confirm what the honourable Member has mentioned here, and I can confirm this from the point of view of the findings of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the sale of used vehicles in cars, but also outside of them, that the biggest failure is the speedometer. Proving and sanctioning these procedures is very difficult under current legislative conditions, so the expert group set up by the Minister of Industry and Trade recommended several steps that could improve the situation. This means, for example, anchoring in the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road, prohibiting modification of the state of the distance travelled by the computer, imposing an obligation on technical inspection stations to record the state of the distance travelled into a large technical licence and into the relevant electronic register, etc. So there are a few concrete conclusions from the working group, and now, of course, it is important that these things are implemented into the rules and into the rule of law. There is also, of course, another question as to whether to anchor in the Criminal Code the substance of the offence of unauthorized interference with the distance computer. There has not yet been an agreement on whether something like this is right to appear within the framework of the new facts. However, in the last two years, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority has focused significantly on this area from the point of view of its control activities. The results of the checks recently published testify to this. In 2015, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority carried out 115 auto-bazaar inspections, and in 56% of them, its inspectors revealed serious shortcomings in the sale of ojentin. I have been informed by the Minister of Industry and Trade that, even from this point of view, he wants to continue to promote that such an act of crime exists here. I would also like to remind you that the consumer has some defence options today. In addition to the fact that it can naturally give the initiative of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, it has the right to withdraw from the concluded purchase contract because the contract was substantially violated by indicating the fundamentally incorrect information. Otherwise, the government is proceeding not only in the area, but also in those other parts of consumer protection to implement a conceptual document called Consumer Policy Priorities 2015-2020. The government approved it last January, which means a year ago. This material is aimed at addressing the most sensitive issues relating to consumer protection, strengthening protection against dangerous products, supporting activities that lead to increased consumer knowledge, raising their awareness, and strengthening the enforcement of the law. Of course, it's not just a matter that the Ministry of Industry and Trade should be dealing with. This issue of consumer protection goes across different ministries, which is why an inter-ministerial expert group, led by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, has been established, but where there are also representatives of other ministries, and that group should continuously evaluate the implementation of the individual measures. This, of course, also concerns the problem, and that brings me back to that, the problem with the speedometer setup. I would also like to remind you that one of the priorities defined in this material in terms of law enforcement is the question of the emergence of a new system of out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes in the Czech Republic. The necessary legislation has been approved and the system should start to work from 1 February this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u29	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? It's not like that. Thank you and please the next drawn in order, and that is Mr Petr Fiala. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u30	Dear Prime Minister. About a year and a half ago, we discussed the service law that we eventually adopted. Your government, your argument at the time, was very clear: We want to separate the political sphere from the administrative sector, we need to create an independent bureaucracy in the Czech Republic, and that is what the service law will serve us for. In addition, you have also put in this service law against our opinion that the officials are also deputy officers, you have created the deputy officers who run the sections, and you have separated the political deputy from it. Okay, it was some kind of fantasy. We even agreed on a compromise, and we all thought that you really meant depoliticizing the government. And we were a little worried that you might want to concrete your people there. So what happens now? I read in the media that some of the Deputys, but the officials, the experts, those who were supposed to be apolitical, would suddenly run for the political parties of the government coalition. I guess there's more than one name. When I see the Minister for Regional Development here, it's her deputy lady. Dostálová is one of the people we're talking about. I would say against this, for example, our candidate, the leader in the Hradec Králové Region, Mr. General Červíček, who announced that he would simply leave the police once he was running. Sounds like an honorable act to me. So I'm asking you, Prime Minister, what's this about the government's apoliticalization? Will you or will you tell those Deputys to step down because they're officials, and they're not supposed to be politically involved, or how it's gonna be? And doesn't that law of service ultimately make sense in this form when it happens that officials run for political parties in elections?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u31	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u32	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, what Mr Fiala mentioned here is a real problem. So I want to confirm that this is a real problem, and I don't think it's entirely in line with what we had in mind when the government passed the Civil Service Act. Firstly, I would like to thank you once again for having managed to reach a certain agreement and consensus here in Parliament, because this was an important moment for the Czech Republic. Even if we had different opinions about the law and a number of reservations are kept by individual parties to this day, so we were able to pass the law and we went through the narrow throat that we simply had to go through, because otherwise European funds would be delayed and not just this government would have paid for it, but two or three other governments that would have come after it, and of course the Czech Republic would have paid for it. So I appreciate that we've managed to reach an agreement, and I think it's important that we do this topic, the subject, whether people who are under the civil service, and it's about 70,000 civil servants today, who are under the regime, so we should be looking for an agreement on whether or not it's appropriate for them to run for election. The law, as it applies, contains a restriction that a person who is in a state service regime must not be in a political party. I think that the political parties are quite heavily aware of this, at least judging by my own political parties, because, of course, we are, if such people are in the civil service, they have no political function in social democracy. However, the law did not address and does not address the question of candidacy in elections. And I'm not a supporter of letting people who go into the state service regime submit to the conditions, perhaps even abandoning the previous job they had, working for the state today, so that we change the rules to those people in a way that doesn't come directly from the law. And I think that if there is an amendment in the future, we should reconsider this subject. We should also perhaps have the ability to distinguish whether the civil servant in question is running for the council of his community, or whether he is running for the region, or even if he is running for the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate. Because I can imagine that when you live in a small village, there's often no one else who's willing to take over the community. And it's a different situation than when you're running for the regional council or running for the Chamber of Deputies. So I definitely see this thing as a problem. I'm thinking about it, too. And I want to make a clear statement of willingness at the moment when an amendment to the Civil Service Act is being made, so I want to declare the willingness and interest to discuss this subject, possibly to resolve this matter directly by law, so that there is no dispute and that there is no other interpretation around it. But I don't want any political pressure or political decision to interfere beyond the obligations defined by the Civil Service Act at the moment. We asked... The Ministry of the Interior also prepared a certain official interpretation based on the relevant law. In that interpretation, if I can at least briefly quote from it: "The Civil Service Act generally does not preclude a civil servant who is in service to the Service Office from running for office in elections to all representative corps, including as a member of a political party or political movement. His candidacy alone in the election will not show up for his service. In the event that such a civil servant acquires a post which is incompatible with the performance of the public service under the relevant law - the list of functions is directly referred to in Section 33 of the Civil Service Act - it will mean the suspension of the performance of the civil service of that civil servant and thus the inclusion of that civil servant outside the service for the suspension of the service until the end of his duties. For the period of inclusion of that civil servant outside the service, the staff member shall not be entitled to pay.'; This is therefore a scheme in case the employee in question is elected to a public office after the elections. So I would like to remind you that for all civil servants, whether they are running for election or not, there is an obligation to perform the service impartially and within the limits of their right to abstain in the performance of the service of anything that could jeopardise confidence in its impartiality. So much for the interpretation of the Ministry of the Interior on this issue. And I reaffirm that I am ready for a debate on possible legislative adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u33	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u34	Prime Minister, I'm glad you see this as a problem. I'm the last person who wants to handle everything by law. You can't handle everything by law. But it was you who vehemently advocated the law of service that created a situation here. We warned that, for example, the Deputy Minister's function is political in many ways, that it is strange to create two types of deputy. Now our concerns are confirmed, because some of the Deputys are going to run for office in the regional elections. And I agree with you on one thing. There's a huge difference between someone being a clerk in a rank and running for office, and someone being a deputy and running for county council. That's just the difference, that's what we have to perceive. And I don't know if it can be treated by law. We just have a bad law in the sense that there are two types of deputys, and now it turns out that there aren't really two types of deputys, that they're political and deputy political, but those one Deputys are going to be political in some kind of special regime. I, Prime Minister, would expect you to stand up to this in some way and suggest some solution to how to deal with it, because by law, we're not going to take people's passive voting rights away. It's just not possible. But it's not even possible for us to say that we have apolitical state administration, they had professional vice-president there, and they ran for election as political deputy. [[Time warning]] [[Time warning again]] That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u35	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u36	I must say that so far, the cases in such a high position as the Deputys in that line of professional management of ministries are few. And I do not think that we can now interfere with their rights without changing legislation, whether from the point of view of the state service or from the point of view of their right to run for office in elections. However, if this matter were regulated by law, and I agree that it is necessary to examine whether we can do such a thing, then I think that it would be appropriate to limit or say that it would be an incompatible candidacy into certain higher structures of self-government or at the level of Parliament of the Czech Republic, to declare it incompatible with the regime of the Civil Service Act, if legally possible. If this is not legally possible, let us discuss other procedures that would lead to this. In terms of common sense, in terms of the logic of the Civil Service Act, in terms of common sense, one would say that an expert deputy should not run anywhere and be a deputy professor. And if there is a political deputy, please, and there will not be restrictions. So I think that although we have different opinions in a number of areas, I think we should be able to agree on a level of common sense and look for a legislative change that would ensure that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u37	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Kovářová, to present her interview to the Prime Minister. Mr. Hovorka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u38	Dear Prime Minister, I read in the press yesterday under the title Billions from the EU on the Internet that - I quote: "The government has spoken a lot on this matter so far, but it has done little. Brusel has offered a multi-billion-dollar subsidy to EU countries with low Internet access rates. But the Czech Republic may lose money. A 14-billion-dollar injection will be available only until the end of this year and nothing much is happening here." So many quotes. The press' communication is undoubtedly very warning. Therefore, I have to ask whether this information is based on the truth, whether the inaction of your government will actually lead to that 14 billion. to increase the speed of internet connection we can write off. If so, which member of the government is responsible. And if this threat is fulfilled, will it remain a member of the government? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u39	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u40	Here's the situation. What is crucial is a document that has a title - and I will read it here to make no mistake - the document is called the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks. This is a document that the government must approve. It is a document that is part of the conditions for us to draw European funds at all. And we agreed when we were preparing all the conditions for the launch of the drawing-up of European funds, that this national plan should be approved in the middle of this year. It's not gonna be easy. I repeatedly face the demands that we extend the deadlines for submitting this material to the government. I'm rejecting it because I think we need to keep the deadline for half a year. And what is relevant, in order not to be just a document for the document, is, so I would like the updated data on Internet coverage to be part of the National Plan for the development of new generation networks. The data is currently being updated by the Czech Telecommunications Office. The latest update of this data according to my information was in 2013. This means we need to have new data, up-to-date, relating to this year. And we need mine. so that we know exactly where to target the support that we have a chance of getting from European funds. This means that the government's aim is for the government to have a completed national plan on its desk in the middle of the year, and the updated data provided by the Czech Telecommunications Authority was part of the national plan. This is the money that will be drawn under the PIK operational program. This operational programme is managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This answers the question of who is responsible. The Minister of Industry and Trade is responsible for Mládek, who must guarantee that, in the middle of the year, the government will be able to approve such a key document - first of all, in order to meet the condition, secondly, so that we do not pick up any delays. I just want to confirm that the means we have to support projects that should improve our connection to the high-speed Internet can be used throughout the programming period. There's no risk of losing the funds at the end of this year. Only this year must we have one of those conditions for drawing and have prepared this national plan, which at the moment must be guaranteed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Czech Telecommunications Office. I firmly believe that the Minister will meet his responsibilities, that this document will be able to be approved by the Government, and that it will then be possible to write out the first calls that will allow the funds to be drawn from these, I think, about 14 billion. CZK, which are so far allocated under the operational programme PIK to support the fast internet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u41	Thank you. Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u42	I might even go back to that supplementary question about what you said this morning about the electronization of the government, that you want to speed up your work with the fact that there will be an electronic identity from 1. 1. 2017. I commend it, but I ask - such a small thing as using photographs from both civil and driver's licenses, so we learned that this option was not taken into account until 2018. So if it goes at this rate, I don't know if it goes at 1. 1. 2017 you can make it. And I would intercede for you to put a little pressure on your members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u43	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u44	I hope that the Minister of the Interior will not be entirely busy dealing with the migration crisis, which I fear is largely creating his agenda, and that he will also have room for pressure on his Deputys and subordinates who are working to implement the concept of electronicisation of the state administration, as it is, after all, enshrined in the official documents approved by the government. I would very much like it if from 1. 1. next year they were the standard of civic IDs, which will be equipped with the electronic identification element, which is the basic tool for people to be in touch with eGovernment and be able to handle their affairs over the Internet with the authorities, but they will have the applications ready for it and they will have the systems ready for it. What's a big problem is data sharing. I think the honourable Member has pointed that out. In the past, information systems have been created here essentially on a restorative basis. Sometimes not even on a restorative basis, but even on the basis of individual resort organizations. We still need to move forward from the point of view of integrating these systems. I hope that's what the Ministry of Interior's steps are going to be about. So, yes, I'm sure I'll talk to the Home Secretary in the coming months about this being an important priority - the electronization of the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u45	Thank you. Now, to Mr Hovorka's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Mrs Hnyková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the House is discussing a bill on health services, which is intended to allow the connection of very sensitive data on each of us from the health documentation and from all health registers in a single central repository, in the so-called "Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Seats." The National Health Information System. Any information from the patient's medical documentation communicated to the physician in confidence will be sent to the central data repository and linked to all personal data including the birth number. This concept was prepared by Mr Julínek and Mr Hrobon and Mr Šnajdr in 2008, but it was not until 2011 that he entered the law as Minister Heger. Shortly after that, one register was abolished by the Constitutional Court and since then NZIS has not been operational. Now Minister Němeček strives for all databases to be connected and operational, but unfortunately without adequate data protection. [[15.30 hours]] The assessment of the bill results in very serious shortcomings for which it is not possible to approve the law. The law does not sufficiently protect the informational self-determination of persons, and even in the case of sensitive data. Data cannot be individually protected by legislation, not even sensitive data. Also, persons who allow access to registers do not have a certain obligation to assess the proportionality of the provision of personal data to others due to the information self-determination of persons, which is required by the Constitutional Court. It is unclear what the status of a technical operator will be. Since this is not mentioned at all in the law, the protection of the operator and of the operator's employees cannot be assessed in any way in this assessment. It is therefore considered missing. The protection of personal data is a fundamental right laid down in the Charter. Restrictions and other handling of fundamental rights are possible only with the law and on the basis of the law. [[Attention on time.]] The Act under consideration also does not imply that a citizen as a data subject should have access to all his data, the personal data that are processed on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u47	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u48	Thank you. The honourable Member, honourable Members, it is interesting that this has worked, but it is precisely Mr Hovorka's interpellation that comes after the previous one, which concerned the very weak electronisation of the state administration. What Mr Hovorka mentions is a perfectly legitimate question which is linked to any further progress in the area of the electronicisation of the state administration in the field of health. I can mention here a number of arguments that say that the Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic is proceeding and will proceed in the administration of the National Health Information System in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and in accordance with other legislation that defines standards and internationally applicable standards relating to information security management. When I made a question based on the interpellation of the Member, the Office guarantees this. However, the debate on Internet security, electronic communications security is always in place when working with as much data as will be used in this system. I am in favour of continuing to be electronized in the field of health through gradual steps. I think it will allow us to work better with data and evaluate them in an effort to assess the quality, safety of health services provided. This should enable us to monitor demographic developments, the consequences of ageing the population, and this should enable us to have a register of health professionals who are engaged in health care professions. It should allow us to register the payment of health services covered by public health insurance. I don't think we're capable and we're not ready to work with data in the healthcare system as modern technology could allow. But I don't want to downplay anything. I don't want to downplay any concerns regarding data security. And I would just like to refer the Member to a professional debate with the Minister of Health and with representatives of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic. I believe the law went through the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, and this is where the debate should be conducted, including insurance against any misuse of information and data that will be collected in the information system. But I don't think we should stop the electronization of health care. In my opinion, however, we should do it well, we should do it conceptually, we should also do it with the hope that it will provide us with as much rational information as possible for good management of the healthcare system. So I'm stressing again, I don't want to downplay any concerns. The evidence I have at my disposal says that there is an effort to comply with all international standards, and I would like to refer to the debate that will take place here in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u49	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u50	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Thank you for saying that Dr. Dušek has everything secured. But the problem is, the law doesn't talk about data security. If you look at other registers, such as the Public Administration Information Systems Act and amending some other laws, there are rules for sharing data and services between individual public administration information systems through the reference interface, etc. etc. This means, for example, that car drivers data have better security than their far more sensitive health data in the upcoming database of the National Health Information System. And what is proposed in the draft law, where we want to evaluate the quality of care, demographic data, we want to evaluate the level of services provided, we want to evaluate economic data, we do not need to link such sensitive data with native numbers. [[Attention on time.]] This can already be taken from health insurance companies today and we do not need to create a new expensive database.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u51	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u52	This is undoubtedly a topic of professional debate on how personal data protection standards are ensured in individual information systems. It's probably not the only law where we're gonna have this topic and this discussion. Tomorrow we will discuss another law concerning electronic sales records. And even there, I know that a number of citizens are wondering if the data is in any way exploitable. I'm sure you don't. And I would like the Minister of Health to be able to disprove all such concerns here at the House of Deputies, possibly to set those standards in a comparable manner. I would like to recommend, Mr Member, and I will certainly draw the Minister's attention to this, that a separate seminar may be held on this subject on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies with experts who, within the framework of eGovernment, are in charge of ensuring the management of private data, perhaps even in cooperation with the Office for Personal Data Protection, so that the House can be sure that if the law is passed, there will be no deaf spots.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u53	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Hnyková's microphone and Mr Kolovratník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you spoke for almost an hour this morning about the migration crisis. Unfortunately, there was no specific information from your mouth about what specific legislative actions the government is preparing to prepare for the possible and very likely arrival of migrants in the Czech Republic, and you did not talk about health risks at all. Since I am a member of the Health and Social Committee, and I have been living my entire professional life in this area, I know the difficulties this resort is facing. I must stress that we are losing our nurses and our doctors, and we are losing our acute beds in this resort. I think it's very important if any infection spreads here. Thanks to the quality of health care in our country, we managed to eradicate diseases that were still dying in the 1950s, let it be tuberculosis, diphtheria, measles, mumps, jaundice, and many others. Unfortunately, these infectious diseases have not disappeared from all over the world and are common and often fatal where migrants come from. That is why I ask you how the government approaches this threat. What specific legislative or other steps do you take to protect citizens of the Czech Republic from these diseases? Did the government have a study drawn up to sum up all the health risks associated with the migration crisis?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u55	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u56	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I felt it on the part of the honourable Member as a slight regret that I spoke less than 50 minutes on the subject of migration. I've already made my point here today. Since I felt here yesterday when I was at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, I felt a really strong demand for a thorough report on the migration situation to be heard here, so I decided to prepare a thorough report. And yet I think less than 50 minutes isn't that long. I think there have already been speeches in this Chamber of Deputies that have been much longer than mine today. But let me respond to the question of the health risk associated with migration. I would like to begin by saying that the Czech Republic is not the target country of migration. I would like to begin by saying that the Czech Republic is on the edge of the main migration stream. In terms of the number of asylum seekers, in terms of the number of illegal migrants detained in the Czech Republic, our numbers are in order below the figures in countries such as Austria or Hungary or, for example, Germany, which is one of the main target countries for migration waves. While we are at the edge of the migration wave, we do not want to underestimate any aspect that is connected with this possible modern-day migration of nations today. The Ministry of Health has therefore taken some concrete steps to protect public health, and I would now like to report on them. Firstly, in cooperation with the professional companies of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně and the State Institute of Health, they processed material called the Proposal for a recommendation on laboratory investigations and vaccination of migrants who are stationed in the relevant facilities of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Health monitors daily information from the World Health Organization, the European Commission on the development of an epidemiological situation in the world with a special focus on refugees. The Ministry of Health monitors the development of the situation in the Czech Republic in cooperation with local authorities for the protection of public health and the State Health Institute. This situation can be considered favourable from an epidemiological point of view. High vaccination rates against diphtheria and other infectious diseases against which children are regularly vaccinated also contribute significantly to maintaining a favourable situation. I merely remind you that such a system of regular vaccination does not exist naturally in a number of countries where refugees come to Europe. The Ministry of Health has set up an expert team whose members have been appointed Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior regularly inform each other about the health situation in migrant facilities, but also about the situation in the countries of origin of this migration wave. All this information is being transmitted to the appropriate health care facility by the circuit health station. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, following consultation with the Ministry of Health, issued a methodology for placing unaccompanied minors in appropriate children's facilities. The Ministry of Health has ensured and included in the inventory list of selected medications, including the fact that the Ministry of Health has checked the reserve capacity of vaccines for regular vaccinations. To conclude, then, if we evaluate the epidemiological situation in refugee facilities, this situation has been and is favourable and the incidence of diagnosed infections is minimal. This is the experience of the past year. So much so very briefly on this question. I just want to remind you that the Czech Republic is, of course, a country which is largely transiting, a country with an important airport in Prague, with a number of regional airports. It is a country where tourism is very intense, and we meet foreigners and tourists from all over the world. And if I compare the probability of any such disease occurring with any of the tourists, and the probability that refugees occur from the point of view of the number of refugees staying in the Czech Republic today, then I think that the probability that concerns refugees is statistically significantly lower. [[Warning of the expiration of time to reply.]] However, I would like to emphasise once again that in no way do we underestimate this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u57	Thank you and I will ask the lady to the microphone, because I see she wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u58	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and for not underestimating it. Still, I'd like to ask you one more question, perhaps a little personal. You can certainly understand the mothers of children that they are worried about the health of their children. That is why these questions fall upon my visits among the citizens. Do you meet them, too? If so, you would certainly be more responsible for the entire debate on the immigration crisis and comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and inform us regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u59	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u60	Thank you. I think it's legitimate questions that people can think of why not. On the other hand, it is legitimate to say that the government is in control of these things. I am very glad that despite all the attacks that have been here in the past, we have managed to maintain a health service. Because you know that, in the past, efforts due to cuts, to reduce the number of civil servants have somehow weakened hygiene. She was jamming her workplace, and I'm glad that this plan didn't go through with it. That is why we are ready for the current situation. And again, these are legitimate questions. The Ministry of Health is ready to respond to them and the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, pays particular attention to all facilities where refugees are staying at the moment, who may be asking for asylum in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u61	I would like to thank you and ask Mr Kolovratník for his interview with the Prime Minister. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u62	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. And to you, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm going to go from health care to transport. On 26 November last year, I verbally interpelled you on the issue of the dispute between the Czech Railways and the company Škoda Transportation. I asked you two specific questions in the interview, and since you were not present at the meeting, I received your written response within a few days for which I thank you. But unfortunately, I have to say that in this material, I did not receive specific answers to specific questions. In my opinion, you avoided the answers. Moreover, the answer seems to be a factual error. The response was only on a general level, and in my opinion, although you are one of the top representatives of the state, you are calling for peace instead of protecting the state firm. Therefore, I would like to ask you these questions again, and I ask for clear answers. Firstly, the judges in this case have admitted the claims for surcharges and additions by the producers. České dráhy must pay almost 1.2 billion. additional crowns, although the item of delivery has not yet been completed. So I ask how you will personally defend the state and the Czech national carrier in a situation where agreement is not reached and the Czech Railways are to pay extra hundreds of millions against their will for unfinished delivery. And the second question is that match. I would like to ask if you are willing to help and how you will personally help Minister Dan Ťok to protect the primary interest of the state carrier, the Czech Railways. If you act on the side of the state, respectively. traffic. I would also like to add correctly that, given that there are a lot more unanswered questions in this case, I would like to point out that I am also sending you a written interview on this matter today, where I would like to detail the request and add further questions. But now I'm going to ask for these two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u63	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u64	Thank you. I must say, honourable Members, that as Prime Minister I have no authority to enter into a dispute between the Czech Railways and one of their suppliers today. I cannot enter into arbitration in any way, nor can I enter into any other dispute that is conducted in this way. And I don't even have any special information as Prime Minister regarding the conduct of this dispute. [[15.50 hours]] I assume that the members of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways have information that the members of the Management Committee of the Czech Railways, which is appointed by the Government, have this information. And here I want to stress that the government, although the Czech Railways are a 100% state enterprise, so the government does not direct the Czech Railways, but the government decides on the composition of the management committee of the Czech Railways, which consequently runs the Czech Railways as such, with the fact that the Czech Railways have a board of directors and have a supervisory board and these correspond on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Commercial Code. So here it's obvious what the direct responsibility is. As far as information on this dispute is concerned, I have this information from the media, i.e. I have information on what has happened, information that historically there has been a proposal for reconciliation in this dispute, information that the proposal has been rejected by the company, a decision has subsequently taken place, and the Czech Railways must, of course, use all the possibilities given to them by the rule of law to defend their position in this business dispute that they are conducting. But as Prime Minister, I cannot enter into this, and I also do not want to assess the various arguments. I would certainly like the Czech Railways to defend their position as a firm wholly owned by the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u65	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member. Yes, he wants to ask a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u66	I understand the explanation, I take it and thank you for it, but I was interested in the moment of the supervisory board, virtually. I would like to ask if this is a topic for you at the moment, which you want to address and perhaps communicate with the Supervisory Board, if any. with Minister Took, or if it is from your point of view as Prime Minister, Head of Government, Manager, the thing you leave fully in the competence of the Minister and Supervisory Board and only following its course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u67	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u68	Thank you. I think it is up to the Minister of Transport if he decides to inform the Government of the Czech Republic of any form of this matter. Probably the Minister of Transport has the tools to provide such information to the government. I certainly do not rule out that this matter may be the subject of any negotiation if the Minister of Transport decides to provide such information. However, at this point, I do not consider it necessary for me to engage in this matter as Prime Minister. There is the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways, there is the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways, there is a functional Management Committee of the Czech Railways and these authorities must be responsible for defending their position and suffering, if possible, the least economic damage resulting from the conduct of this dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u69	I thank the Prime Minister and I would like to see Mr Fiedler's microphone present his interview with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In my interview, I would like to follow up on today's special point, on the form it took place, and on what information has been provided. Through Madam President Prime Minister, we have expected no, and especially citizens who may be watching this, if there is still a transmission, a report not on the migration crisis, how it was going, how it was going or what the facts are, but we have expected, in particular, information on how we are prepared to address possible developments, possible variants of developments, what awaits us, and we have not heard that here. Thanks to the fact that there's already been a stew from this meeting, I've written down two of your sentences from your speech. I quote: Europe is now paying attention to the fact that it has effectively ignored the war in Syria for four years. And I add to that: and the consequences of the war in Syria. And then another sentence that I quote from your speech: And we also pay tribute to the fact that, after the overthrow of Saddám Husajn's regime, no long-term sustainable stability has been achieved in Iraq. And since you are pro-European-oriented, that is clear, Europe has also taken the position of the United States as a power, I add that the citizens of the Czech Republic and I do not want to live to see a year or two, that you will say that the influx of migrants and the consequences that the situation has failed to stabilise and that we have underestimated or ignored security risks. I therefore expect that there will be information on this in the sequel, and that is certainly what citizens would like to hear, as we are prepared to do, to address the alternatives to development, and I expect your answer, in what spirit this information will therefore be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u71	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u72	Thank you. I think that here, and we've seen it in the last few years, we know that it was Arab spring here, that the Western world was addressing the question, and more and more often after the Arab Spring, it was addressing the question of whether stability or human rights violations are better. The question was whether the Arab Spring could have turned out differently than it did in a situation where no strong middle classes were created in those countries through which the Arab Spring had passed, which would have a liberal orientation or democratic orientation, and it was very often shown that in a number of those countries that passed through the Arab Spring, the one that was most organized and best organized were the Islamic radicals. It is simply that the development around Europe in recent years has not been easy at all and cannot be interpreted simply on one side or on the other side. North Africa, the Middle East, what happened in Iraq, what happened in Syria, all this has dramatically aggravated the security situation around the European Union. And the situation in Ukraine has added to that. This means that we have today destabilized a large part of the environment, which is directly linked to Europe. And if I've been talking about for years ignoring the problem in Syria, it's true, just because people in refugee camps were gathering. In fact, Europe didn't even watch if the UN had enough money to help these people, and somehow it was automatically assumed that those people in those refugee camps would always expect to just sit there patiently and wait for what would happen in their country. And by the time the war lasts four or five years, those people have actually spent all the money they have taken with them, their children are growing up to them - and now tell me what the perspective of children growing up in the middle of a refugee camp, where 50, 60, 70,000 people are concentrated. And now something's happened, and I think it's simply a consequence that aspects and impacts of what happened in Syria have been ignored. Just as it was questionable what effect the Arab Spring actually brought to a number of countries. Yes, I agree that respect for human rights is important that the dictatorships were disgusting, but it is important that those disgusting dictatorships replace regimes that will not violate human rights and ensure people's chances of a more dignified life, and this has not happened in a number of cases after the Arab Spring. We see it today on how Libya is broken and how it is actually creating additional room for instability around Europe. I do not think that anyone could have accurately predicted what would happen around Europe, but I think that the European Commission has enough tools, it has agencies, it simply has a rather qualified apparatus at its disposal, and it could have analysed some data in a faster way and, above all, it could have responded to them in a faster way. I am glad that our government has highlighted matters that are essential from the very beginning of the migration crisis. We point out the causes of the migration crisis, we say what the real migration crisis can solve, that Schengen's external borders are no surplus, that they need to be protected, that we cannot think that Europe has infinite capacity to be able to ensure good integration, that there are limits and rules of immigration policy that work in all developed countries in the world, and therefore must exist and operate within the framework of the European Union. So I think that the analysis of our government at the moment we joined and when we began to deal with the effects of the migration crisis was very accurate, and I even note that rather the governments in Western Europe, which initially criticized the V4, are taking over a number of our opinions today and from our positions that we, within the framework of the V4, have been holding in this migration crisis from the very beginning. [[16.00 hours]] I do not think that Europe should allow it to repeat similar mistakes and, therefore, I would also like Europe to have a stronger common foreign policy and, therefore, I would also like Europe to have a stronger common security policy. It is simply the solution to protect our future better, not to break Europe, which would create further and further instability and crisis, but we need a Europe that has stronger tools to deal with the problems that are in its immediate vicinity. There's not gonna be a lot of things going on for Europe. If we don't do this, the conflicts around us will be wet and we'll get smoldered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u73	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u74	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the answer was without surprise. I recommend, through Madam President, that you read the tape, Prime Minister. In the first part of your answer, it was once again a description of what was, how these things took place, what the situation was. In the second part of the general declaration that the external borders of Schengen must be defended and that security and Europe must be maintained. We didn't hear anything concrete again. I guess it's pointless, it's pointless to repeat over and over again. You said the situation is evolving, that it's bad around. We know all that. But citizens and I, as their elected representatives, would like to hear concrete steps, concrete measures that you are preparing, how to defend the situation. I'm afraid we still haven't heard that from you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u75	Your time! I'll ask the Prime Minister if he wants to respond. He doesn't want to. At this point, I must say that we are at 16 o'clock, i.e. the time has passed when it is possible to submit the last oral question to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. At this point, I call on Mrs Miroslava Němcová to give an interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u76	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am addressing you on a project that I learned about yesterday from public sources. Specifically, the Free Forum server stated that you are launching a campaign in schools, primary schools at second level, to better understand the migration crisis, and this campaign aims to encourage sympathy for refugees. It's documented by several stories. The first story tells the situation of an Afghan boy whose allied forces - I underline the ausgerechnet of allied troops - kill his father during the bombing, and this boy is then taken with his mother to Sweden to find his happiness here. I would like to ask if you have seen these documents because the second of these films describes a situation where an atomic bomb will explode in the Czech Republic and 10 million Čech will get an offer to relocate, I think, to some Asian country, but she doesn't really want them, so she asks them different conditions and questions to basically answer those children. And they are supposed to respond, for example, to children at the second grade of primary school: to think about what Czech culture means, how they would like to live in a new homeland, how they would practice their religion there, whether they would want to vote or social benefits, and whether they would respect the holidays and traditions there. I would like to know if you saw this, if you consider this document to be balanced, for example, that when talking about an Afghan boy, if there was also talk about what it would have been, if he were an Afghan girl, and thus became an inferior creature of society, who would have been married to a cousin at about 10 or 12 years old, and at that moment lost any rights, he would not be allowed to drive on the street alone, as the mothers of Czech children can, just as the mothers of Czech children can. My point is whether, if any campaign is launched that aims to make children understand what is happening in the present world, whether this campaign is conducted in a balanced or propagandist sense, when parents do not understand the benefits of multiculturalism, we have to pour it into the children's heads. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u77	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u78	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for interpelling Mrs Němcová. As for the comic book that was published yesterday, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports had nothing to do with it. It did not provide him with a patronage, it did not provide him with financial support, it is not in any way a document by the Ministry of Education. Although the seminar held yesterday by the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees was attended by the Deputy Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, his presence had a completely different meaning and context. He was asked by this office to inform the participants of this seminar with the steps that, in the case of integration of foreigners, I note continuously, the Ministry of Education does. And I have to say that I am very sorry that news coverage of Nova TV, although asked about the connection with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and my deputy has already refused at this seminar and explained that it is not about the material of the Ministry of Education but about the High Commissioner for Refugees, so, unfortunately, the public has been shocked and panicked in the spirit of this connection that there is a campaign going on towards our children in schools. So I, as secretary of education, reject it. It is not the material of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Please, and also thank the Member for interpolating me, for having the opportunity to explain this, so that we do not continue to debate in this spirit, as if it were some kind of campaign by the Ministry of Education. Of course, I will turn to Nova in writing and ask for a correction of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u79	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Secretary. I'm going to ask the lady for an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u80	Thank you for your answer. So I understood that the Minister said that he had nothing to do with it from the very beginning, although the information I had in the media yesterday says that this program comes to school with the sanctification of the Ministry of Education. You say that's not true, and I ask you if, since the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees has already been established, he has put his money into it, and the program is ready, even though it was originally intended for Swedish children, so now modified for Czech children, what will you do to make this programme - I understand that you may not have even seen it - went to Czech schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u81	Thank you, ma'am. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u82	Thank you for the additional question. As for what children learn in schools, this is, of course, in terms of the framework education programme and content, in terms of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. This material is not supported by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in any way. And as for my evaluation, I didn't get to know him because it's not our material, I don't know its contents, but only what was mediated to me after I was preparing for today's reaction, so it's supposed to be the material that is translating Swedish material, which is three years old. In this situation, i.e. in the case of the office of the High Commissioner and the NGO META, only the translation of the material was carried out and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will, of course, not distribute it to schools in any way and it is not a campaign of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I realise that the current situation in the case of the refugee crisis is very sensitive, I think it is a very complex and serious matter for adults, and in no way will I allow children to be haunted or dragged into a serious social debate in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u83	I thank the Minister for her answer. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the preparation of the wine law, will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, I have a simple question. According to my information, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared the wording of the amendment to the wine law. This went through internal and external commentary proceedings and there was some consensus with the wine village. But according to my information, you're going to change this bill after the comments, in the sense that it should be forbidden to sell barrel wine. I want to ask whether it's true or not. In this respect, you will present the law at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, as this would mean for small winemakers who do not bottle, that they will not be able to sell their products elsewhere than in the cellar or only to those who bottle wine. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u85	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u86	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members, Mr Bendle, through Mr President. With regard to the material approved by the government at the government meeting this week on Monday, the final form speaks after all negotiations that lasted more than three quarters of a year: we do not prohibit the sale of barrel wine, we do not make any obligation that any barrel wine would have to be placed in packs only bag-in-boxes. The model will work as follows: If the recipient, i.e. importer of cask wine to the Czech Republic, so this recipient, if he wants to sell the wine as barrels within his sales network of wineries, can do so in the package of keg-sud, as is the case today. The same Moravian and Czech winemaker, who also produces wine and wants to sell them as barrels, can continue to sell them in the wine shop that he operates in the network in keg-sud, can bottle them in these premises. The change occurs for establishments which, say, we know mainly as different curfews, sales points non-stop, etc., so there is de facto the change that if the seller does not meet the criterion of the recipient, i.e. the wine importer, or the producer, will be able to sell the wine and spread it only from bag-in-boxes in a package limited to 20 litres, i.e. packaging, which we cannot re-fill, on which will be a full etiquette. When our supervisory authority comes in, it takes a sample, finds fault, is immediately able to tell who did it, i.e. Whoever's labeled as the one who turned the wine into the bag-in-box. And we have traceability. Now, of course, there's a question. There is a certain penzum of wineries that are not, let's say, in that category of different places that are not entirely ideal, which have the greatest error rate based on the findings of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, but are solvent wineries, but which at this point are not owned by someone or someone who imports or produces wine. [[unintelligible]] And this wine shop has the possibility of becoming a wine producer from the law, if someone orders the wine. That is, if the wine shop orders cask wine from a particular winemaker or recipient who imports wine into the Czech Republic, then the wine can then sell it in the keg-sudu. And it's important to us, again, that we have traceability and we see that the wine that he sells like this has been purchased from that and the supplier, and we are able to ensure the enforcement of the law in case of doubt. That's the compromise we've been trying to find in this whole discussion. Not to go down that road to ban the sale of barrel wine and only bag-in-boxes, which was the original option from the first half of last year, but to find a good compromise solution that would be applicable in the Czech Republic, which would not harm Czech winemakers and honest vendors of barrel wine, who import the wine from abroad. So this is the resulting compromise and we will also present this to the public. I'm preparing a big meeting for the first week of February in South Moravia, where I and my colleagues will explain this principle here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u87	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u88	Thank you for your answer, Minister. My point is, especially those little winemakers aren't too limited. I understand that there is a clear effort here to avoid misleading customers in calling something Moravian wine, while I brought the wine from elsewhere. I understand that. That's something we want to prevent together. But we should not pour out the baby with the bathtub and thus limit the chance of small winemakers to take advantage of the market and the chance of customers to buy good quality Moravian barrel wine from a particular winemaker. I'm sure we'll still have this conversation at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Thank you for your answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u89	I thank both the Minister and the Member. Mr Daniel Korte, who will interpel the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the Visa Services Centre in Minsk, will present the third interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, it is common practice that, in order to simplify and speed up the process of issuing visas, external visa centres are established, which, say, are intermediaries between visa applicants, entry visas, and the competent consular department, which only and exclusively has the decisive power to issue or not to issue visas. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely its department of consular concepts and methodologies, has selected the Russian company Pony Express for the providers of these services in Minsk in the tender procedure. Pony Express is a company's trademark, but its real name is AO FREEIGHT LINK and belongs to the Cypriot business group Goodtek Company Limited. But all this belongs to the holding of Bazova Element, which controls Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, who has relatively close relations with the Kremlin and especially Putin, as well as other contacts with part of the Russian ruling elite. Dear Minister, are you aware of these facts?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u91	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Secretary of State for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u92	Thank you. In fact, some important facts have already been heard here in the interview. That, for example, if this outsourcing occurs, which is a standard tool for the visa process, which we use in a number of countries and is generally used by European countries in the European Union as a standard method. We have used this method here in countries such as Turkey, China, South Africa, India, Thailand, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia - and, of course, where we decide to outsource this visa recruitment, so we are proceeding according to the selection procedure that has taken place here in this case, I believe, in full transparency in accordance with the law. Detailed information on this is publicly available on the web portal www.vhodne-uvrejeneni.cz . There's everything, the procurement documents, the evaluation criteria of the selection procedure. The circle of candidates hasn't been limited here in this trial. You're right to inform about the outcome. The Belarusian concession contract for a transparent tender was signed on 3 September 2015 with FREEIGHT LINK Pony Express. The representative office has not yet started cooperation with the Visa Centre. The way I dealt with it, I didn't really find any mistakes in the whole process that took place there. On the other hand, I recognise that the circumstances that you mentioned are quite important to me, and that is why I have given such a special assessment as to whether there are still certain risks of how this would be managed. It is true what you also indicated in your speech that the Visa Centre does not in any way judge or decide on visa applications. Visa centre personnel do not enter the system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the European Union in any way, so they really do not get there. The first time I found out that the security of the visa system is not in any danger, the visa process, which takes place primarily at the representative office. That's where they take it. That's where they decide. I think from the look of it, there doesn't seem to be any risk. Yet I, to some extent, share some of the questions you are suggesting, and that is why I decided to let the whole thing be assessed in a more thorough way. I repeat, until now, the representative office has not initiated cooperation with the Visa Centre, and I await the results of a more detailed examination that I have recently commissioned, and I will inform you, if you are interested, of the results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u93	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u94	Thank you for the answer. I'm not questioning the properness of the tender. I question whether it is the company that is this close to the Kremlin - it is somewhat disturbing to me that it can have an overview of all the persons who intend to come or come to the Czech Republic from Belarus. I appreciate that you're going to review this, and I beg you to make a written notification about the outcome of your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister has an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u96	I would just like to draw attention to one more fact that it is not so that the person concerned has a complete overview, because even though we would be thus outsourcing the activity and using the service of the visa centre, in any case, the applicant has the opportunity to choose here in Belarus. He can apply through this visa center or personally at the representative office. You're suggesting that someone might be somehow prevented from disappearing from that system because they're going to report to it, but in any case, he has the opportunity not to turn to the visa centre even in Belarus and go directly to the representative office. So it's not that the person then has a monopoly on that approach. That's just information here. But other than that, I think we have an understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u97	There's no better news than when you two got along, Minister. Thank you. Mr Jan Farský, who will interpel the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on the sale of land in Harrachov, will give the fourth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have received information from Mayor Harrachov that in Harrachov alone the state owns large land on which there are slopes, as well as access roads to individual recreational buildings, and this land is also used by the Krkonoše National Park for the management of adjacent forests. Information has come to light that the sale of these land is being considered to be directly addressed to the interested party. I would like to ask what the truth is about whether this sale is actually planned to take place, and whether there is no better option that the State, as it has so far, would collect rents from these land, and they are thus owned by a public entity and accessible to all those connected to it. It is a key issue for Harrachov's future development whether or not these land will remain publicly owned or not. The Krkonoše National Park and the village have also signed up to consider the transfer of ownership, but it seems that the sale is being prepared for the previously appointed candidate. I'd like to hear from you whether that's true or whether it's just a misinterpretation or a misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u99	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Finance for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems, Mr President, that we have never met, but we have met and discussed it. So you guys are making it seem like there's some kind of injustice here, and you know it's just a political matter on your part. You lobby for your mayor Zbrojová, the election is coming up, I understand. Let's see how it is. We discussed this, and you even have a meeting here in the House tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. with Mr. Kremlík of the State Representation Office in property matters. There is a company called Harrachov Sports Area, which has land in rent for a price of 2 million. 178 thousand. CZK annually and which I actually mean from 30. 6. doesn't pay rent. They don't pay rent because we fight for the state and we want the market price. In our view, the market price is 3.5 million. This company, which would probably want to buy the land, isn't willing to pay us 1 mile. 322 thousand. extra crowns, so we've been chatting with her for a long time. This whole problem is actually personal, because the head of the company, and you know it, is the former deputy mayor, and your mayor hates this deputy mayor. And now you're actually trying to make the impression that you're having an interesting concern for some land. So the status quo is that we're in the lease phase, and if we don't agree with the company to raise us by a million and something, we'll sue them by 31. 3. 2016 for unwarranted enrichment. Of course, according to our estimates, the land is worth 60 to 80 miles. CZK, and if our office sells the land, and we're in favour of tearing down transparent property, there's nothing to prevent your mayor from applying for the land. But we're not in that position at all. You know that. So we're in a position to confront the rent, and it would be good for us to say things the way they are here and not do any propaganda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u101	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u102	I've learned a lot, but few answers to my questions. Did I hear it's sold there or not sold there? Someone is currently using the land for no legal reason, I understand. According to my information, the one who uses the land there today for no legal reason and for whom the State will file an action by the end of March, unless he signs an amendment to the contract, is also the one who is supposed to receive the land as a candidate. If that's not the case, I'll be glad. My question was why these lands do not go to KRNAP, Krkonoše National Park. It's in the middle of a national park, it's used to manage the surrounding land, it's used not only by this one company, but also by many other entities that work there. And why does a state that has a regular, non-small annual income want to sell these land at all? What's necessary about them if the state doesn't cost anything and only gets income from it? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'd like to get some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u103	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u104	So one more time. They don't sell land. They can't be sold because the rent isn't settled. That's what I said. The state should behave with proper care if it is dealt with. And if you feel, Mr President, that it is better to receive 3 miles. CZK 80 million a year. All of a sudden, I don't think that's a very good thing for the state. So the land isn't sold. If it settles, I'm sure we want to sell the land, because for us, for the state, it's better to have 80 miles. more than 2.1 miles so far. per year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u105	I thank the Minister for his reply. We'll proceed to the fifth interpellation. Mr Radim Holeček was to intersect the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, but I do not see the Member, he is not here, so his intersitation is failing and we will move on to the next intersecting. This will be Mr Roman Procházka, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the appointment of the Director of the Forest Race Kladská. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am addressing you on the matter of the Director of the Kladská Forest Race. The forest plant is part of the Forests of the Czech Republic. The director of the forest plant was dismissed last year and was also responsible for the management of the forest plant. Subsequently, an invitation to tender was announced for the position of director, to which he applied about, I believe, eleven applicants. None of them, however, were chosen. Then perhaps a second tender was to be announced with the deadline for submission of applications by 4 January, but I could not verify this information anywhere, because I did not find it anywhere. [[16.30 hours]] During the parliamentary days, I was visited by a number of citizens who brought this situation to my attention, even told me that the resigned director should be reappointed. I don't believe it, but I would like to ask you for detailed information on this matter. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u107	Thank you, Mr Procházka. Minister, I beg your answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u108	Thank you, good afternoon again. Quite briefly on this matter. Director Němický has been removed from this post. In the selection of the new director, he is temporarily responsible for the performance of this position of the Forest Race Kladská, with the fact that no new candidate has been selected in the first tender. Now, on January 4th, a second tender was issued, and there are interviews with candidates tomorrow. I just talked to the CEO of the woods, so the competition is really going on. It's gonna be physical tomorrow. The candidates are there. I think five people are invited to an interview tomorrow. If it succeeds in selecting a new director from this selection procedure, he will be appointed and Mr Němický's mandate will end. That's about enough for the tender. The Director General told me that he had quite serious reasons for this, so he decided to call him off. So much for that, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u109	I thank both the Minister and the Member. Mr Marek Ženíšek, who will intersect the absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of psychiatric care reform, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm withdrawing my intervention due to the absence of the Minister. I'm a little surprised by the reason or justification for the absence of the Minister, where the reasons for the work are stated. I think that the minister during the interpellation, if he is not ill or if he is not abroad, should participate in the interpellation. With Minister Němeček, it seems repeatedly as if he went to an interpelation in another House than he was responsible for. I'll wait for the Minister to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on foreign policy of Ukraine, will give the eighth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, if you recall, September 17th, it was Thursday, we discussed here this evening an agreement on the association of the countries of the European Union with Ukraine. It was the House press 310. In my speech, I spoke about why I believe that Ukraine is not ready to be part of the European Union, to think at all, and to be lurking about being in this European Community. I mentioned her policy and her bans. I mentioned, if you remember, actors and artists. I told Mr Depardiea, I mentioned journalist Die Zeit, the BBC, I mentioned politicians, Vice-President of National Democracy, Mr Zemánek, or Senator Mr Doubrava. What is Ukraine's policy at present? From my point of view, it froze in the Soviet Union era. Prohibitions, orders. Again, I will quote: 'Ukraine is not ready to lurch after its membership or association with the European Union.' As you know, I was an observer of the elections with the approval of the Ukrainian Government, and when I arrived at an international conference, I was banned from joining Ukraine, I returned to the Czech Republic and I am an undesirable person. I've asked the Minister, the Minister will answer me, I know the letter is on its way. But I ask, Minister: Is it normal, from your point of view, for a country seeking membership of the European Union to prohibit the European Union's politicians or the Member States of the European Union from entering its territory? And she didn't even have the decency to tell them why she did it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u113	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u114	Yes, thank you for the interview and I'll try to answer it. The first thing I have to stress for starters is to make it clear. Ukraine is not seeking membership of the European Union. I think that no one is suggesting such a thing, and I think Ukraine is aware that at the moment it cannot have the ambition to join the European Union, because it is obvious that it will overwhelm them with the reasons why such membership is something that is absolutely premature to talk about. Also, when we were discussing the agreement that we were dealing with here, I kept pointing out that what we are discussing today, or what we have been discussing here, was not a question of membership, because it is absolutely premature. Ukraine is now in a state of struggle, a conflict in the east, which is really not a state in which to talk about membership. We never talked about discussing membership. Even Ukraine itself does not say that it is about membership today. We were talking about the perspective of this membership, and that's a big difference. We cannot view Ukraine as the country we are now assessing from the point of view of wanting to join the European Union. That's clearly premature. Today, we are working to ensure that Ukraine is part of a process in which the integration process takes place slowly in different areas, and it would be a preparation for something that can only come up in the future. So I repeat, is it, do you understand?, inaccurate and misleading when we talk about membership. This is the case with Ukraine soon, and I don't think any Ukrainian politician will tell you that. That's one thing. Let us not talk about EU membership. The second thing is, about that... which is the problem here, it's that it wasn't allowed to enter Ukraine. My friends, I feel that this is the most crucial principle that we are applying tonight from morning to evening in this House, that every country has the right to decide who they are letting into their territory and who they don't. Do you understand? [[He speaks very strongly.]] That is the fundamental right of every state! And there are no international provisions even within the UN, no treaties that you can force a country to let someone into its territory! Let me, we've been having fun all day. [[unintelligible]] We're talking about migration here, and we're talking about whether we have an obligation to let someone into our territory. And here in the House, it still sounds like no one can force us to do that. Well, friends, if no one can force us to let anyone into our territory, then we can't force it on those countries around us! Or does anyone think that we can say to anyone: you must let this man in the territory of Ukraine? And I do not have the strength to say anywhere in any country - this Member or citizen you must let into your territory. Well, if the country doesn't want to, it doesn't. But don't be mad at me, that's what we've been defending all day. So don't ask me to tell the Ukrajinec right now that they have a duty to let someone in when they say they have reasons not to let him go. We can't measure ourselves any other way than we measure all the others. Does it look like they didn't let me out? And I say to you calmly - forgive me, but that is the sovereign right of that country and there is no international provision, you will not find it that would order a country to let someone into its territory! And that's just, folks, there's no train going through it. Like it or not! And here, in this case, the Ukrainian authorities have some reasons, they're talking about violating Ukrainian laws. You'd probably want the Czech Republic to say -- we don't like this guy here, he broke our laws, we won't let him go -- so you'd all be screaming that we have a sovereign right to decide. And I can tell you - we can't deny this right to anyone else. That's just the way it is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u115	I thank the Minister for his reply. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u116	Too bad I only have one minute. Minister, you're a demagogist! You're a normal demagogy, you just mix apples with pears, you're out of your mind. We are talking about migration and here we are talking about European Union policy and politicians. Don't mix two completely different things. And if Ukraine thinks it's democratic, and what it wants to do... I don't care if Ukraine wants me or not. I want them to open criminal proceedings for me and issue an international arrest warrant. That's their right. But you are a demagogist and do not defend the interests of the Czech Republic! Because entry interviews, and whether it's association or membership, what you call here is one of the things. Yes, but Ukraine is lurking to be part of the European community. And we're supposed to make it clear what our values are. You're not defending those values! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u118	I don't think it should be the subject of our debate, because we don't have to be too interested in that. That's different than thinking about membership. And I would refer you to the association agreement with Ukraine, Article 9, where we talk about the conditions of movement, and there are no legal conditions and no commitments in this area. That means there's nothing you can deduce that Ukraine has a duty to release someone on the basis of that association agreement that she has some responsibilities. There just aren't any. And I'm just telling you, they can't even flow. We can't just force anything on this thing. Yes, we want to improve contacts and do things to improve contacts, but if Ukraine says it doesn't want someone on its territory, just as the Czech Republic can say. As Čech, we can tell the Ukrajinec, we don't want this citizen of yours on our territory. For all sorts of reasons. We have the right, and no one can stop us. And the same Ukraine. These are the conditions in Europe, those are the conditions in the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr Martin Lank, who will intersect the absent Home Secretary Milan Chovanec on the SKPY badge, will also present his interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u120	SKPV, that's a bad transcript, my mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u121	It says "y," it's "V. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u122	Yes, I'm sorry, I guess I misspelled it a little bit. It was supposed to be a "V," it says "Y." It doesn't matter. Let me get this straight. Thank you for your word. Dear, unfortunately absent, Minister, I am referring to you in the matter of the badges of police officers, or the services of criminal police and investigations. I assume you're aware that these had to hand over their badges by December 21st last year, with new badges being issued to them. This has already been decided by Regulation 122/2015 Coll. of 14 May 2015 valid from 1 June 2015, with the exception that existing badges may be used until the end of 2015. It's okay up to here, no offense. Unfortunately, as it turns out, the supplier company was unable to produce new badges in time, or only supplied a few pieces of badges, which it produced manually for the purposes of the selection procedure. The fact that this is supposedly an Italian company that has been involved in the production of buttons up until now, that would not have been fundamentally wrong. However, according to my information even at the beginning of this year, she did not even have an imported machinery in the Czech Republic to produce these badges and the estimated delivery date is sometimes in the first quarter of this year, so I see the problem, and that is quite essential. As a result, CSIs throughout the Republic are currently without badges, so-called placards, which they have been used to proving since time immemorial. Yes, they may prove to be a service license, but I don't think most of the public even knows what such a license looks like, not to mention that for detectives it's the only one, this badge that proves their jurisdiction to the criminal police, because the service license is practically the same from the starter patrolman to the police president. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Two quick questions: I ask why it was necessary to remove the badges from detectives when it was obvious that they are not new and will not just be, two, when they will, and three, who will be responsible for this failure and what consequences will be drawn from it. Thank you, at least I hope for a written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ladislav Velebný, who will interpel the present Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on the issue of privatization of agricultural areas, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u124	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, as early as March 2015, I asked you about the privatisation of agricultural areas, which were privatised by farmers in the 1990s on the basis of privatization projects approved by the Czech Government. Given the fact that I have not received any reply from you for over half a year, I would therefore like to ask a question through this interpelation: How will we address the privatization of agricultural areas? In recent years this issue has been dealt with and dealt with by the State Land Office of the Czech Republic. There was no shift, on the contrary, these properties were transferred by the State Land Office to the administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, which is said to be solved by the privatisation of public competitions. I believe that it may be possible that the buildings that the farmers have assessed so that they can be used for agricultural business at all, such as water distribution, electricity distribution or roof renewal, etc., may not be acquired. The problem is seen by farmers involved, especially in the fact that they submitted applications for re-privatisation from 10 to 15 years ago to the then State Land Fund of the Czech Republic, but their applications were not addressed. Please note that this was not a neglect by farmers, but a sloppy approach by the state institution. Now there is a risk that farmers can pay hard for this. Dear Minister, the farmers of the district of Bruntál, and certainly not just them, do not in any way prevent the payment of doprivatized property, on the contrary, they ask that this question be finally addressed. Therefore, I ask whether you already have at least a methodological instruction on how to proceed so that this problem is finally resolved after many years. Minister, I will be grateful for the clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u125	I thank Mr Velebný. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I am surprised that you have not received an answer. I'd like a copy of the letter, then. I really have been paying attention since taking up my duties to reply to every letter, not just to Members, but to any citizen, of course. So it's weird, I don't think so. And if that's what happened, I'm sure the clerk won't be happy if I talk to him. So I'd like to ask you for a copy of the letter. The general privatisation of agricultural areas is mainly a problem of the State Land Office, so the Ministry of Finance does not play a major role in this. Privatization is ongoing, it is a property that is in the jurisdiction of the management of the State Land Office. This office presents to the Ministry of Finance continuously privatization projects for individual agricultural areas pursuant to Act No. 92/1991 Coll., on the conditions for transfer of state property to other persons, as amended. In privatization it is preferred to tenants of these premises, who operate in the area of agricultural primary production in the long term and successfully. Each sale to a predetermined acquirer without prior tender or public auction must be approved by the Government of the Czech Republic under the quoted law. By the end of 2014, the so-called payment scheme for primary agricultural production, which was notified to the European Commission by the Ministry of Agriculture on the granting of public aid, was applied in these sales. Since the beginning of 2015, as a result of the amendment of the relevant European Union rules, the original repayment scheme for these sales cannot currently be applied. Therefore, preferential sales to tenants of these premises engaged in primary agricultural production take place at prices fixed by judicial experts as prices at the time and place usual without payment arrangements. Any negotiation of a new payment scheme with the European Commission, which could be applied to the sale of agricultural assets, is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, so we do not play such a role there. So I'm gonna ask for a copy of the letter, and I'm sure we'll give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u127	I thank the Minister for this reply. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u128	Thank you for your word. I'm sure I'll deliver a copy of the letter, but rather, Minister, it seems to me that it really looks that good in theory. But since I have information from the Agrarian Chamber and from those involved, it just doesn't work that way in practice. I acted at the State Land Office, they're prepared, but they tell me the Ministry of Finance is holding them back. So the practice is different. So I'm sorry, but it's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u129	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u130	Okay. In that case, I'll ask you if you could arrange a meeting, and if everyone would come in: the Agrarian Chamber, the Land Office, the farmers. And I'll prepare our officials, and we'll talk it over at the desk live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u131	I thank the Minister for this approach and his response. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will intersect the absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of protecting sensitive citizens' data, will give an 11th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u132	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the National Health Information System is supposed to be the central repository of all detailed information on health, social relations and employment of each of us. Upon approval of this Act, data from all medical registers and all medical reports, together with birth numbers, should be collected at the Office for Health Information and Statistics. Can you please explain to me why all sensitive data, such as psychological problems, urological, sexual, abortion, need to be sent to one place about everything recorded in the medical documentation, including residence and birth number, and how will these data help to address the quality, availability, safety, optimization of care and optimization of the network of providers? Where does the law provide for the status of the technical operator of the system and its employees and the associated protection of sensitive data? How will individual sensitive data be particularly legally protected from abuse? How will persons who will allow access to registers have a defined obligation to assess the proportionality of the provision of personal data to others in view of the information self-determination of persons? How will persons, patients, have access to their data to be processed? Why is the health information system not governed by the same strict rules as other basic registers? Why is the data about the driver of the car from the road safety point of view protected better than far more sensitive health data? Why are existing data from health insurance companies not used to manage the economy? Why is it necessary for the new DRG to link all information about the health, social and working history exclusively with the birth numbers and not an anonymous identifier? Why is it now necessary to quickly and rapidly approve this House's press, link all the databases, and then prepare a quality law? You do not think that in the case of NZIS it must be exactly the same mode as for other registers according to the Act on the Basic Register No. 111/2009 Coll.? That the agenda and data management must be separated? The Basic Registry Act determines the definitions of the registry, the scope of the data collected, the links between the agendas, the data access log, the agenda administrator and, inter alia, the record keeping of events related to the operation of health registers. It must be obvious who, when, what and for what purpose he did in the data system. Unfortunately, this is completely missing in the Houses of the Press 614 and the reference to the explanatory administration is not enough. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u133	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek on fraud related to public financing, will give the 12th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u134	Mr President, I intercede to the absent Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek on two issues that have recently appeared in the media, information on them, and which show that the financing of research based on the provision of public finances for the results declared may involve systematic fraud and unauthorized drawing, the issuing of these funds. One of these problems concerns the patent dispute about Hemagel, where it is not important who owns the patent, but it is essential that information appeared in the dispute, submitted by the director of the Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Mr.František Rypáček, that the original result was only formally declared so that the patent application would be filed only in order to report the result in the grant project. It says that the data were not true, the application was withdrawn and then replaced by other authors, and there is a litigation that is irrelevant in terms of this problem. Other issues of the same nature are publications in so-called predatory journals, or information that there are institutions that pay special scholarships for fictional publications in publishing houses that publish anything, but then public funds for institutional support for research and development are accepted on the basis of published publications. [[Attention on time.]] Both of these problems show that there is a problem of fictitious reporting, and I ask how it is controlled, who specifically controlled these things and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u135	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you will be answered in writing. We'll proceed to the 13th interpellation. Mr. Jiří Petrů will intersect the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman in relation to the Ministry of Culture's approach to the processing of municipal territorial plans. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u136	Thank you. Dear Minister, today's interview concerns the access of the staff of the National Heritage Institute and the Ministry of Culture to the amended territorial plans of the municipalities and towns of the Lednice-Valtice complex, but mainly Lednice and Valtice. As far as Lednice is concerned, the municipality's action on the acquisition of a new zoning plan lies with the Municipal Court in Prague, and therefore I will not comment on this zoning plan. The representative of the municipality of Lednice is also determined to turn to the Constitutional Court. However, following the procedure of the Ministry of Culture's staff, Valtice's zoning plan leads to a similar conclusion. Because of the time limit, I will now state only one reason. In 2000, Valtice's zoning plan was taken and approved with the city bypass. The route and location of the construction was respected according to the requirements of the then State Heritage Institute and Ministry of Culture and these entities had no reservations about the bypass. For 15 years millions of crowns have been spent by the city and the state to secure the land and to make land adjustments so that today the Ministry of Culture with a crazy idea of putting the bypass around Valtice into the tunnel under cover of the protection of Bezruč's alley. Not only is this traffic nonsense, when the bypass would not meet one of the essential requirements, which is the connection to the road to Valtice and Lednice, but, even worse, it would mean total devastation of the wide surroundings of this alley in the range of hundreds of meters. Dear Minister, why do the National Heritage Institute and the Ministry of Culture support the construction of the Blanka Tunnel in Valtice, in the Lednice-Valtice complex listed in the UNESCO Cultural and Natural Heritage List? Second: Why are the staff of the National Heritage Institute and the Ministry of Culture promoting a completely senseless concrete lobby at a time when the land plan with a bypass approved in 2000 is valid without the comments of the conservation authorities and without the comments of UNESCO representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister of Culture for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Member, the Lednice-Valtice complex is an extremely valuable landscape unit with an area of more than 283 square kilometers. It is a world unique complex of composed landscapes and architectures, castles, hunting locks, sights and various landscape elements. In 1992 the Lednice-Valtice area was declared a landscape landmark zone. In 1995 the castles in Lednice and Valtice were declared national cultural monuments and in 1996 the premises were listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List for their extraordinary world value. The Ministry of Culture shall, within its jurisdiction, comment on all the territorial plans of the municipalities located on the territory of the Lednice-Valtice complex. In the recent past, for example, it was in Sedlec near Mikulov, Hlohovec, Valtice or Břeclav. They must always process their position with regard to compliance with the conditions set out in Decree No. 484/1992 on the declaration of the Lednice-Valtice complex in South Moravia for the monument zone for the protection and security of the historical values of the zone, respectively. [[17,00 hours]] From a procedural point of view, each proposal for a zoning plan is first presented on the so-called joint negotiations. It is then possible to apply comments on the proposal for a zoning plan. The Ministry of Culture does so after discussing the matter with the National Monument Institute after very careful consideration of all relevant facts, when the correctness and correctness of its procedure is also demonstrated by the fact that, when discussing the territorial plans of the aforementioned municipalities, there was an agreement between the Ministry of Culture and the collector of the zoning plan, while the resulting consensual materials respect both the development and urban interests of the municipalities, including the adjustment of transport conditions in peace and in motion, as well as the monument values of the place. Only when discussing the proposal of the Lednice zoning plan was a contradiction between the recipient of the Lednice zoning plan and the authority concerned, the Ministry of Culture, which was not settled between these parties. The procedure followed, i.e. that the conflict was resolved at the level of the Ministry of Regional Development, when the Ministry of Culture clearly declared that the position of the Ministry of Regional Development would be fully respected. The Ministry of Culture has fulfilled this commitment completely, because without any comments it accepted the draft agreement of the Ministry of Regional Development, and between these parties, i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Culture, the agreement was concluded under the number of the Ministry of Procedure for Regional Development - I will quote the agreement number - 41466/2014-81-2 of 9 March 2015. The municipality of Lednice however with this standard course of discussion of the zoning plan, virtually. with its result, the plaintiff of the municipality of Lednice against the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as the Ministry of Culture, has not accepted and brought an action in legal proceedings against the Ministry of Regional Development, in order to protect against the alleged illegal prohibition, order or coercion of the administrative authority, which was also delivered to the Ministry of Culture on 8 December 2015, together with a request from the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u139	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u140	Thank you, Minister. He described the situation as to how it should be implemented, although I did not receive an answer on why the Ministry and the National Monument Institute changed their position on the Valtice bypass after 15 years. I would also mention that documentation was prepared to include the Lednice-Valtice complex in the UNESCO list of sites of cultural and natural heritage, which contained some claims that were not fulfilled at the time. For example, the question of ownership of the property which is subject to protection as well as its unambiguous definition. Similarly, the method of protection was built on several general terms of the Decree, which was referred to by the Minister, 484/1992 Coll. There has been no development of the method of protection and definition of specific values over 20 years. The decisions and opinions issued by the conservation authorities are thus completely unpredictable. Worst of all, such a situation creates room for completely biased, professionally unsubstantiated expressions of individual persons who, by the way, over the entire territory - by the way, the minister said so, 283 square kilometers - have gained unlimited power and, without any responsibility of their own, have the possibility of completely preventing the implementation of the legitimate intentions of the municipalities. The revised zoning plans are an example of this. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Responsible spatial planning is only effective if it is consistent, long-term and respects sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u141	Thank you. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u142	Yes. Here were some thesis. Of course, it's always a point of view, an opinion against an opinion. As I said, the lawsuit was delivered to the Ministry of Culture on 8 December 2015. The court is now in session. We don't want to enter. There is a need for an independent court among these - an opinion against the opinion - to judge and judge for itself, which, of course, we will respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u143	Thank you, Minister. Mr Adolf Beznoska will give another interview. But he's not present, so his interpellation is failing. Mrs Věra Kovářová will give an interview to the already absent Minister Andrej Babiš - the Minister has duly apologized, for in a moment he represents the government at a meeting with the Minister of Finance Sasko - on tax simplification. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u144	Dear Minister, your actions, which should lead to increased tax collection, certainly do not simplify the current system and it is a question of whether it is simplification, reducing the administrative burden is not what could produce fruit in the form of increased tax collection. This view is shared by a number of tax experts. Unfortunately, I do not see the attempt to simplify and remove unnecessary bureaucracy on the part of the Ministry of Finance at this time. Or am I wrong and I missed her? Thank you for your answer. Just a moment ago, I was hoping to see the Minister's personal participation after nine months. So I hope to get a detailed answer to my question this time. I understand he's properly excused, but I don't think I'm lucky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u145	Thank you, ma'am. It will certainly be answered in writing and I hope properly. Mr Václav Klučka, who will interpel the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, will give the 16th interview on the concept of prison. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u146	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm glad the Minister is here. It's gonna be a bit of a follow-up to today's meeting of the Sub-Committee on Prisons, where we are mine. they discussed matters relating to the concept of Prison Service. I mean, we've heard a lot about the concept from the beginning of this parliamentary term. We have even heard such intentions that could be believed that the concept would apply within six months, three quarters of a year. Well, it didn't. This was most likely not done for some objective reasons. But at this point, I know about it, and I had the opportunity to get the concept yesterday that the concept existed. It's quite a large number of pages, if I'm not mistaken for over 120. The concept deals with a very important area of prison of the Czech Republic, solves matters related to the Prison Service. Minister, my question is accompanied by a kind of hope that you will tell me when you expect the concept to be approved in the government or in the subsequent time, we will be fulfilling how much we will be able to do before the end of the parliamentary term. And the second part of the question: Is it a concept that would only be processed by the Ministry of Justice, or did you have the opportunity to consult and cooperate with other institutions and organisations? I know it was in the commentary process. Please tell us a little more about this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u147	And I'm sure the Minister would like to say more on this matter. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u148	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the question and for the opportunity to say a little bit about the prepared concept of prison, which, by the way, has 162 pages, but the length is not everything. I really think that we can boast a rather unprecedented step in this direction, because the concept of prisons appeared here every five years or so, but the evaluation was missing after the previous period, which was fulfilled or not fulfilled - and it mostly did not - and, on the other hand, it was a concept developed exclusively by the Prison Service and dealt with basically technical issues of security, construction of prisons etc. We followed a completely different path - that is why it was delayed - and decided to look at it with the optics of a man, a prisoner. That means putting together everyone who somehow participates in the trial and tries to make the person who comes to our prison a proper citizen. [[17.10 hours]] So that concept together was created by almost fifty experts on the word taken. They were people from the Prison Service, from Probation and Mediation Services, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, from the Institute of Criminology and Social Prevention, from the Ministry of Health. I hope I haven't forgotten anyone. And then from the academic sphere, and from the Ministry of the Interior. Now I haven't forgotten anyone. The concept is that our goal is to enable prisoners, to work with prisoners in such a way as to gain the chance to move into normal non-criminal life, to teach him to work, to teach him to talk to authorities, to behave in a normal society, to learn him often and somehow elementary things, because we have a problem with that, to solve his debt situation, to help him from different addictions, etc. It is indeed a very ambitious plan, a very challenging task. And with that concept, it's all really just starting. We don't want it to be another document on which to sit dust for ten years, and in ten years, it's basically written again. That is why the almost 50-member commission did not end its work by completing the concept, but it turned into a permanent body to oversee the implementation of the concept, and it will evaluate it on a regular basis. At the same time, the concept counts directly, declaring that it will be developed into so-called. Action plans, which will describe quite specific procedures gradually fulfilling individual, as I say, very ambitious objectives of the concept. Your question - what can we do? I am convinced that we will certainly be able to implement individual programming for prisoners, which means that when a prisoner comes to prison together, a psychologist, a tutor and other persons will actually build him an individual program that should run ideally until after leaving the prison, because it is an important element of the concept. Our work with the prisoner must not end the moment he leaves the prison. The programme should address precisely what education we will provide, what other measures we will take to raise it, etc. [[Attention on time.]] That's the first thing. [[And the last one! Laughs in the hall.]] Please second - we believe that we will still build three hostels this year, which should be model hostels corresponding to the new, modern concept, and see what it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u149	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u150	Thank you, Minister. I think the information was very interesting to those who weren't here. Maybe they'll listen to them on the record. But I'm sorry - one more thing. Czech prisons will be good when the Prison Service is in good shape. Recently, we have seen a certain twist in the leadership of the Prison Service. He managed to sort it out somehow. I want to ask whether, with this change for the future of the Prison Service, there is some perspective that will help us solve some of the problems that have arisen in the Prison Service. And the second thing - if there will be any more time afterwards also in the Sub-Committee for Prisons at Probation and Mediation Services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u151	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, now you have two minutes for the other stuff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u152	I'll try, instructed after a previous setback, to be more brief. Yes, I believe that staff stabilization in the leadership of the Prison Service will improve the functioning of the Prison Service. Uncertainty, the period of uncertainty that we've been through has not benefited the prison service. I'm glad we have the only CEO at this point, that we're confident we'll have him here for the rest of our term of office if he doesn't do anything. At the same time, I have taken the necessary steps to implement the very concept, which means we are introducing normal management management systems, where its remuneration will be linked to precisely defined and discussed objectives, measurable targets that it will have to meet in a given year. He himself, he likes it, he projectes it himself down again towards his subordinates. So I believe that our prisons will actually begin to approach Western Europe where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u153	Thank you, Minister. Your faith has saved you, it is written in the Bible. Mrs Helena Langšádlová will give another interview. He will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the VAT inspection report. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u154	Good afternoon, Mr President. Dear First Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Finance absent, you and your government seem to take a number of measures in the name of combating tax evasion, which primarily burden honest entrepreneurs, such as control reports or electronic records of sales. For TV Nova, for television newspapers that were broadcast on 30 December last year, you stated the following - I quote: "It is true that sanctions are severe, and we are preparing a proposal for their forgiveness and essentially the Financial Administration, given that it is a new instrument, will, of course, be benevolent at the beginning." I would like to ask if this statement was meant. On the one hand, you claim to be affecting cheaters, on the other hand, you will say that the Financial Administration will be benevolent. Benevolent in the event that sanctions are firmly laid down in the law means that the Financial Administration would have to act illegally. Minister of Finance, you yourself have enforced these sanctions into the law. I want to ask if you have given any instructions to the Financial Administration for this procedure. And if so, I request that it be provided. I wonder how the benevolence is specifically defined. In addition, it was stated in the report by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets that special personnel with security clearance will be earmarked for the examination of data and analyses from the inspection report. My question is: how many of these analysts with background checks are now employed by the tax administration? And what level of clearance do they have? How is it ensured that data and information will not be used in particular for the benefit of your own economic interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u155	I thank the lady for her question, to which she will be answered in writing. And we're going to proceed to the 18th interpellation. Mr Karel Rais will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on foreign development cooperation of the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u156	Minister, Mr President, dear colleagues and guests, I think the Czech Republic has a well-established system of humanitarian aid and foreign development cooperation. It is active in a number of places that, thanks to humanitarian measures, take immediate migratory pressures. [[unintelligible]] For example, the morning mentioned Jordanian refugee camp Zátarí, where more than 80,000 refugees from Syria, including 10,000 children, live, and where the Czech Republic helps quite significantly. In the long term, we support development projects that improve the conditions for decent living in a given place so that it does not have to be left behind, which means that we focus on the causes of migration, not on firefighting. I consider this long-term support strategy key. If the European Union's elites paid attention to supporting migrants in the vicinity of the war and did not allow them to move freely, very difficult to control, throughout Europe, the overall situation in Europe would certainly be better today, even within the whole of the European Union. [[17.20 hours]] After all, it is necessary to realise that there are currently about one million people not only in Germany, of which some 7,000 potential jihadists are estimated to be security services, of which 75 percent are converts. It is important to note that every day the EU's overstepping of government elites will bring about 6 000 new people from Greece and thousands of people from Turkey to the EU before this problem. In its accession to the European Union, the Czech Republic undertook to gradually increase the budget for foreign development cooperation in order to correspond to about 0.33 of the gross national income in 2015. This was a commitment by the new quotation marks of the Member States. The old Member States have committed themselves to 0,7 per cent of gross national income. Many of them do it, some of them go beyond it. We have invested only 0.11% of gross national income in external development cooperation over the long term, and this share has stagnated for several years. I believe that it is not enough just to strengthen security measures at the external borders and to carry a burden on transit countries and to focus on prevention too. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Oh, I'll go straight to the questions. I thought I had infinite time. So I have two specific questions. Do you not think, Minister, that, at the level of the government and at the level of the elite of the European Union, it would be necessary to prefer the assistance of those affected in the place or near the conflict of war, than it has been so far, that is to say, to increase the stagnant support of the Czech Republic, which is now at the level of 0.11% of GDP? That's the first question. And two: What are you doing to make the idea of a preference for support particularly at the site or near the emergence of a local war conflict at the level of the EU's government elite? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Although I'm tolerance alone, please next time about keeping the time limit. Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u158	Thank you for asking. It's not easy to answer at that time that's available, but I'll try. Because that thing can be viewed differently. It could be said that we are giving little, and you actually mentioned that we do not actually meet the obligation to give 0.33 percent of GDP to development aid. In 2014, it was only 0.11, so it's pretty deep below what we would have, what we had committed. And now the question is, what are we going to talk about? Something else is official development aid, humanitarian aid. And then you specifically said how we focus on those places that are crucial in terms of migration today. That means you're wondering to what extent you probably mean we're able to shift our attention to those countries that are the biggest source of migration. That's probably for a big show, but I'm gonna try to give you a hint. I agree with you that development aid, humanitarian aid, should also, in my opinion, increase. For one thing, this corresponds to the commitments, the strength of the economy of the Czech Republic, and it also corresponds to the fact that we have a relatively large number of crisis situations that are growing, and that help is needed there. I, too, intend to submit a request to the government this year to raise funds for humanitarian aid. And it's the help that's going to be given to the source countries. So it's something that we're talking about in the government, and I can say that we're preparing the material that we're going to submit for the State Department and where we'd like to raise the development aid in cooperation with other people. To be precise - we have succeeded in the last two years in view of the crises that have arisen in Iraq, Syria, around us, and in view of the migration crisis, we have managed to obtain extraordinary resources together with the Ministry of the Interior, which has increased the assistance of the most crisis regions. Also for humanitarian aid. [[unintelligible]] When you look at how much we gave in 2015, there was - 70 miles. In fact, we only put Iraq, Syria on those crisis countries, those internally displaced from those countries into other areas, Lebanon, Jordan. And especially if you ask me how much Syria could have done, I'll give you one number: since 2012, over 200 miles have been spent on Syria. to assist the internally displaced population and Syrian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey. So that's the sum of what we gave in two, three, four years for, say, specially Syrian refugees. This also requires the New elite programme for Syria, where we are trying to support the scholarship programme for Syrian students. We started this in November. In the Czech Republic, 18 Syrian refugees from Jordan began their studies. You mentioned the camp in Zatarí, which is on the border of Jordan and Syria. I was in that camp. That's about 90 grand, of course. people when I was there. I was there because we have several programs that we implement right in that camp. It's the support of young boys, young girls. We teach boys how to control computers, girls... We do not do this directly, we give it to Christian organizations with whom we have experience and which the girls and boys teach what would help them to navigate the labour market. Because they actually have the opportunity to get a job in that space over there, in Jordan. They're not being held in that camp, they're going out, and a lot of them are able to get a job. So we're increasing their ability to get a job. The guys I've seen, 18, 17 years. So it's a very good thing. I think it's very well given money. The companies we're giving it to are mostly Protestant, Christian organizations, I think they're very reliable, and they do it well. That's what I did with my own eyes. So I think that these are very useful things and it's worth raising these resources here. It's actually that we're trying to keep these people from going away to Europe, but to educate themselves and find work right there. I think we both agree that we need to support this. And we will try to increase the scope of this aid. I don't have much time left, but let me tell you, it's not easy for those programs we're doing today in Ethiopia, Palestine and elsewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina to say, "This is going to end and we're going to move on." Because that would be a huge waste, and it's unimaginable to me. So the solution is to get more resources, and then you concentrate on the places you have in mind. Where there are the sources of the migration crisis. But I think there are limited possibilities of getting the funds there that we're going to limit what we have and put it somewhere else. [[Warning of the expiration of time to reply.]] That could be one in part. The main thing is to get the money new.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u159	Not only means, but time is limited, Minister. I ask the honourable Member a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u160	Thank you. Basically, I do not have an additional question of where we are in agreement in the basic strategic directions. Because I think that the efficiency of the crown spent in those developing countries is far better than it is here to retrain basically unqualified people. This is going to cost us dearly, and I would like that opinion, as you have said here, to share the government elites of the European Union. That was the second question. So if you want to see how you will try to implement this into the conditions of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u161	Thank you. Please, Minister, your two minutes of follow-up answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u162	Thank you for the opportunity to continue, because one thing I wanted to mention here, which I find quite interesting. One thing is that we agree that the Czech Republic could put more resources in those source sites. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to try to make it go effectively where, of course, we have a chance of getting those displaced by the means to stay and not move up... That's for sure. But what's interesting is the question you suggested. What about the European funds? This is interesting because it is an unimaginablely robust resource that Europe is giving for development aid. I'm not talking about the Czech Republic right now. I'm talking about Europe. These are hundreds of billions flowing to Asia, Africa. It's the money that actually, the flows have been generated for decades. They are linked to countries that have a huge history in those countries, including colonial and others. Today, there are really unimaginable money flows, where it is very interesting today to ask how these traditional flows are hundreds of billions of euros, how effective they are. This is what I have been talking about recently, both with Federica Mogherin and with the Dutch Presidency and many others, to what extent we are able to have a debate today about this huge money that traditionally flows to different continents of the world and which we today need to focus on those places where there are the biggest crises, and which, if we could largely transform, it is money of such magnitude that they would actually be able to create, to change the conditions. And the question is, to what extent in Europe we are able and willing to talk about such fundamental changes. [[17.30 hours]] You can imagine that these are the flows that have been generated for decades, at a time when we were not even in the European Union. They are linked to the traditional donors and are, of course, connected with certain structures that have been developed for decades. But Europe is in a really serious situation today, and it would be worth talking about how the whole development aid, how to recapture it in the face of what is happening and rethink it. [[The President draws attention to the time]] And that's what we're trying to do, and I hope it does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u163	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jana Černochová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Defence on recruitment, will give the 19th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, our army has long faced recruitment problems. You know very well that the fullness of some units unfortunately does not reach half of the required condition. I am very pleased that we have managed together with the approval of the amendment of the defence legislation, in particular the amendment of the defence law and the new Act on reserve soldiers, to take the first steps to remedy this situation. However, legislation alone is not the only solution, and our work certainly does not end. We are faced with the task of fulfilling the numbers of both professional soldiers and the number of active reserve agents. With colleagues on the Defence Committee, we see the area of recruitment as key to the future of our defence, and we are aware that we need to step up work to build a stronger bond between citizens and the military, to make it popular and to increase public interest in the issues of homeland defence and the feeling of co-responsible for ensuring it. In the context of the debate on this issue, we have repeatedly discussed projects that could be achieved in the past. One of them was the opportunity to use television production for this purpose, e.g. in the production of specialized programmes or series that would draw public attention to questions related to the military and defence. In this sense, I would expect greater support from the public media, namely Czech Television, because we are witnessing a police series after another, a number of documents are being filmed to which the Czech Television contributes a great deal, but somehow we lack that there is a programme that would focus on this issue. So in this context, I would like to ask you whether and what projects in this segment of the Ministry of Defence are preparing, whether or not it intends to support any of the projects that are being offered, or whether such projects at all, Minister, you know and at what stage communication takes place e.g. with the Czech Television it was about the appearance of a show that would thematically focus on the Army of the Czech Republic. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u165	I thank the lady who will be answered in writing. Mrs Jana Hnyková will give the 20th interview. It will be an interview with the Minister of Health on the number of beds in Czech hospitals. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u166	Thank you, Mr President, you forgot to deliver the absent Minister of Health. An article of 18 led me to interpelation. 1. 2016 in Hospodářské noviny under the name The Ministry's plan is failing, the beds for the acutely ill are declining, but there is no place for seniors. It says: Patient beds have been disappearing from Czech hospitals for years. Places for acutely ill people are being canceled, whose need for modern medicine, for example, is falling continuously. But according to the assumption of the Ministry of Health, this bed should not be completely destroyed. It should move to a facility that cares for seniors and infirms who are jumping in the population. Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček promised to appoint a special committee to oversee the creation of the necessary beds. But the plan went quietly, and the number of senior seats still does not increase. There is no commission, nor is it planned, says Minister Němeček today. So many quotes. Over 40 years, the number of 80-year-old seniors, Minister, is estimated to increase by up to four times the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and according to the statistics, there are only eight thousand beds of follow-up care in hospitals. Do you know that there are unregistered facilities in our country that address the lack of places in residential services - but under what conditions do people live there? Not only does Mrs. Ombudswoman draw attention to this in a number of her reports. Any concept in health care is missing in the Czech Republic. I see it in our Liberec region. Currently, the survival of the hospital in Semily is being addressed and the complications caused to the residents of Frýdlantsko to abolish acute care in the local hospital. [[The President draws attention to the time]] And I'm asking why this committee didn't come. What led you to do this, why do we not yet have a health concept here? And the last question: How do you want to provide health care for our citizens in the future, will our health care still be viable, without any planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u167	I thank the Member who will be answered in writing for the absence of the Minister. Mrs Nina Nováková, Mrs Nina Nováková, will interpelise the Minister of Education in the field of artistic education. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u168	In the beginning, I would like to address the absent minister, who apologized, with the fact that we certainly are not in conflict, that we should also place emphasis, or at least remember, on artistic disciplines, as well as on the universal development of children in the field of art or through art, in the framework of the educational and educational process. And it's these two things that come together in my question or my reminder. We know that there is a very interesting one within the schools, with a hundred-year tradition of the existing Jan Deyl Conservatory for the visually impaired, and in this conservatory there is also a secondary school for the visually impaired, where one can study the field, which is just on the border of craft and art, and this is the field of tuning. This school is established by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and yet here, to the great surprise of many of us, there is a situation that I would perhaps best call inclusion inside out, or some exclusion or anti-inclusion. The principal may accept only applicants with diagnosed visual impairment and other applicants have access to this school. For the sake of completeness, production and maintenance of musical instruments can be studied closest in Hradec Králové. We can argue that the current labour market does not seem to need thousands of tuners and repairers of musical instruments, and that, unfortunately, muses are less in the class now than weapons, but that cannot mean we give up our efforts to develop our children in a versatile way. If the aim of the Ministry is inclusion, although in our ideas it should be very sensitive and at the right pace of joint education, then it is the Ministry that should set an example at the school itself. So my question is: Why can't those who are not diagnosed with visual impairment at the school that works at the Jan Deyl Conservatory here in Prague also study? [[The President draws attention to the time]] This has been possible so far, and I think that it is harmful to the industry and that it is also harmful to those children with visual disabilities who are studying at this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u169	Thank you, ma'am. She will be answered in writing for the Minister's apology. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will give the second second interview and will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the amendment to the Social Services Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u170	Good afternoon. About a year ago, we amended the Social Services Act. We have accepted a rather groundbreaking solution, we have transferred responsibility for funding from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the region. But many things remained unfinished. A few examples: How to ensure that regions do not prefer their budget at the expense of private and other social care providers? Or further: What will be the case with quality finance? The Ministry has promised to develop certain standards according to which subsidies should be allocated. To this day, these standards are basically unknown. All this was promised by the administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in another big amendment, which was originally to come into force 1. 1. 2017. Now they're talking about 1. 7. 2017 and the Ministry has not even published its main intentions. In doing so, as we know, there is quite a long time from the publication of intentions to the validity of the law. This results in the nervousness of social service providers who are looking to me in the Karlovy Vary region. [[17.40 hours]] Question: Madam Secretary, what is the deadline for the amendment? Next question: What is the estimate of the legislative process? And can you suggest how the novel wants to deal with problems? I have an additional question here, I'll use my time. From the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs it has leaked that the formula for the financing of social services is expected with 20% participation of private sources and contributions of municipalities. However, no legislation has imposed this obligation on the citizens so far. The House has not yet passed any proposal to extend the tax return for them. What will the municipalities pay for social services, the 20 percent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u171	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Mrs Jitka Chalánková, who is not present, will have another interview, and therefore her interpelation is failing. We're getting to the 24th interpellation. Mr Josef Šenfeld will interpel the present Minister Jan Mládek on the Brownfield solution programme. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I'm glad you could make it. I'd like to say with my interpellation that I was approached by one of the mayors in my constituency. You were supposed to make a public promise to announce the newly prepared program of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, a program that would allow cities and municipalities to buy out so-called. Brownfields from private people. The programme should be called "Regeneration and business use of brownfields, revitalization and revival of obsolete and unused industrial areas, preparation of industrial areas and buildings for business in the territory of structurally affected regions of Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký, Karlovy Vary and economically troubled regions according to the Regional Development Strategy of the Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020." As it follows from the title, one of the conditions should be that such purchased property would have to be used only for industry and business, so some mayors very much welcomed this intention. This particular mayor of mine is asking me whether the proposal has already been passed through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, whether this proposal has been discussed by the government, or when it will be discussed, when it can be expected to launch this program. And if the program is running, how big the allocation will be for this grant title. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u173	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask Minister Mládek for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this Brownfield interview. It is that this programme, which should address brownfields in the three structurally affected areas, i.e. in the Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, it was already prepared for the meeting of the government in Ústí nad Labem, which took place in October last year. The truth is, however, that he ended up in the interdepartment because there was a disagreement with the Ministry of Finance. And the disagreement was just about the one point you mentioned. On the one hand, the will to spend money is assumed to be two billion crowns, to develop industrial zones, to solve brownfields. They're brownfields that would be an event. were used for industrial production or services. They are not brownfields in general, which would then be rebuilt into a park or some facility that serves the city. This belongs to Minister Šlechtová, Ministry of Regional Development. The issue was one of those you mentioned, i.e. whether they are to be able to benefit from it by private persons, i.e. to sell to cities. This is one of the things we need to work out. At this point, the material is in front of a meeting at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. After the internal meeting and the commentary procedure, we will pass it on to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, because we are interested in going back to that, even if the first attempt to enforce this plan failed. This, of course, has to do with it, although it is discussed separately, it is a zone above Barbora, where we would also like to move and make a large industrial zone there just because in the Moravian-Silesian region there was a sort of social agreement that all other industrial zones would be brownfields. This, of course, is a very commendable interest in environmental protection, but it is far from simple in terms of speed and cost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u175	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who is not present, should have further interpellation, therefore her interpelation is failing. We're getting to the 26th interpellation. Mr Martin Plíšek will intersect the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on electronic bracelets. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u176	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I would like to ask you about the fate of the project of electronic monitoring of sentenced persons, i.e. electronic bracelets for prisoners, and I'll be back by last year. Early January last year The probation and mediation service has published a preliminary notice of its intention to award a public contract for the acquisition of a system and the operation of an electronic monitoring system for sentenced persons. Subsequently, in August, the Probation and Mediation Service announced this contract. In the meantime, she subsequently resigned from her post as Director of the Probation and Mediation Services and the Probation and Mediation Service postponed the autumn deadline for submitting applications to this tender on 23 December. This means, on the basis of questions from potential candidates, preliminary questions, some technical terms of the procurement documents were still changed during the procurement procedure. On 23 December, however, during the opening of envelopes, this public contract ended in a fiasco because not a single tenderer entered into the contract. Therefore, the invitation to tender had to be cancelled. I would like to ask you, Minister, why, in your opinion, this was the case. What are the personal or other consequences you may have drawn against those involved in the procurement procedure? And then I want to ask you, of course, whether this project will continue, whether you will announce a new tender for electronic bracelets or how you intend to proceed on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister of Justice for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u178	Mr President, honourable Members, if I was bragging about the previous interview, I really have nothing to brag about here. It was a big surprise for us, as you rightly pointed out. During the course of the procedure, we released the conditions following the reactions of potential suppliers to increase the expected competition, the win in the tender. We have noted many questions from many potential suppliers and there has been no situation where we would say to one of the suppliers that something he requires is not possible. So we really didn't have any signal that this was going to happen. Just like before we even wrote the tender, an external contractor made us so called. a feasibility study, where, therefore, also on the basis of market consultations, it assured us that there were no unrealistic requirements. Why did it turn out like this, I admit it, I don't know. We were trying to get reactions from potential suppliers. The reactions basically said it wasn't a good enough project for them, just like we set the conditions. They didn't say it was impossible. They didn't say it wasn't convenient, they just said it wasn't convenient enough. I suspect there may have been some agreement between those potential suppliers, but, of course, it's just my suspicions that I don't have direct evidence for. [[17.50 hours]] I tried to solve the situation first by reaching out to the VZLÚ, a Research and Testing Institute which, through its name, belongs to the state and through its name deals with geolocation technologies and applied research in this area. He was really concerned with the possibility of creating this system for us. After 14 days, he unfortunately told us that he wasn't really able to create the system fast enough. So this brings us to a point where we do not have such a solution and our next plan is that we go the way of the so-called competitive dialogue, which is the only option under the Public Procurement Act. It's a very untested path, but it's the only way to negotiate with potential suppliers, because we just have to admit that we can't set the conditions blindly, because we could do the same thing the second time. So we must negotiate with proper forms what conditions are and are not acceptable. It's not gonna be pleasant. I'll make some changes in the team that prepared it, narrow it down, it was too wide in my opinion. Otherwise, I'm not taking responsibility for personnel because, as I say, it was a surprise, I think, for everyone involved. In the end, I'm paraphrasing one of the anonymous statements by one of the suppliers that the media brought it up, that it was the first clean competition in this thing and that it came up according to it. The next one's gonna be clean, too, so hopefully it'll turn out differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u179	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u180	Thank you for your answer. Since he really lost his job last year in vain, I would like to ask you here, Minister, when do you expect the electronic bracelet project to be launched and whether it will still be under your control in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u181	Please, Minister, fortune tellers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u182	Depends on how long I'm gonna work in this government, right? We didn't exactly lose that year. We have devoted a considerable part of that year to technical research into what we need, etc., so we have some competence that we did not have at the beginning, and we have some experience from the first tender. Of course, we'll use that in the next phase. I'm afraid I can't answer at this point. We just don't have a schedule yet. But as you can see, I'm an inexhaustible optimist, so I believe, and we will do everything we can to make it to the end of the term. I hope it's real. Unfortunately, we just depend on what those private subjects do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u183	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Petr Kudela will give an interview to the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the transfer of the building built in action Z in the municipality of Březová in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u184	Hello, Minister. I ask you for advice on how to proceed in the matter of the municipality of Březová to acquire for its operation and development the building of the office. The village Březová is located in the district of Opava at an altitude of about 525 meters. It consists of five local parts, with a total population of 1,400. The office of the municipality is located in a building built in the framework of the Z event owned by the Czech Republic through the Office for State representation in property matters. The municipality of Březová has been trying for many years to get this building into its possession. The building is rented, but it's like a stranger. In this case, the state really treats the village as a stranger. The building is currently used by the municipality for its municipal office, the branch of the Czech Post, the hairdresser and Telefónica, which has a digital switchboard for the whole of Březov on the basis of a material burden. The municipality has repeatedly dealt with the State Representation Office in property matters. The Authority offers two options - either to submit a project using a building in the public interest or to buy a building for 2.8 million. Crowns. This is unattainable for the community. Although the Authority accepts a free transfer, none of the projects submitted by the municipality has yet met the condition of transfer in the public interest. The public interest according to the Authority is not the use of the building for the municipal authority, it is not the public interest to use the building for a nursing home or to set up a space for the services of citizens. And so the building decays. The municipality cannot invest in it because it would invest in foreign property, and the Office of State representation does not care about the property situation of the building. He doesn't even want to deal with a cracked toilet flush tube that is part of the building, according to inventory. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So please, Mr Vice-President, order the office, or please grant $2.8 million. for the municipality of Březová, or please recommend how the municipality should proceed in order to secure the building of the municipal office for its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-003-202.u185	Thank you. We are getting to the next - and we are not getting any more, because according to the Rules of Procedure, the last interpelration can be given no later than five minutes before 18 o'clock. It's four minutes before 6:00. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'm done with today's meeting. Tomorrow morning, at 9 o'clock, we will continue the extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for electronic records of sales.
