ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u1	144. Government proposal to submit to Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for ratification of the Sustainable Transport Protocol to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathian Republic - First reading We dealt with this House press on 14 April of this year at the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies when we are Resolution No. 1171 adjourned his hearing until another proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The general debate has been interrupted. [[12.40 hours]] I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Pavel Holík. If I understand correctly, will there be a change in the rapporteur? As we find ourselves at first reading, I must put to the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, when Mr Pavel Holík will be replaced by Mr Rom Kostřica. I'm gonna call my coworker and coworkers from the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees to change the rapporteur at first reading, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 190, registered 127 Members, for proposal 97, against 8. I note that the proposal has been approved, and I ask Mr Kostřica to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. So now we will continue the interrupted general debate and I ask who is reporting for the debate. Because... President Stanjura is duly reporting to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u2	Mr President, I believe, in accordance with you, that we have already started the debate. However, when you open the website of the Chamber of Deputies - I wanted to see exactly where we left off last time and what I said about not repeating myself - you will find that, according to the record of the Chamber of Deputies, we have not yet started discussing this point. And I would like to clarify this approach. You can check quickly, or we have co-workers from the Chamber of Deputies. Because then it doesn't apply that the point is interrupted. Then we have to start with the opening word of the Minister, who I don't think was here last time. Was it? He wasn't. I think I suggested a recess to the Minister's presence. So either the debate was and the opening word and the rapporteur's word were heard, then we didn't have to change it, or we didn't. We should clear this up. I will then, of course, apply with a specific speech on this point, but this should be clarified in a procedural manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u3	Okay. I'm registering your request. Anyway, the evidence I have in front of me shows that we should continue the interrupted general debate, but I will check it with legislation. I'll take a short, three-minute break. I'll check it out, and we'll continue on that basis. I'm interrupting the meeting for three minutes until 12:45. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.43 to 12.45 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. For the sake of clarity, let me sum up at which stage we interrupted this point in the last discussion. It was that we started discussing this point. Minister Brabec has appeared. The rapporteur then spoke, Mr Holík, whom we changed for Mr Kostřic. I opened the debate. At that moment, you, Mr President, spoke up and asked to interrupt the point. This means that we are continuing the debate that has been launched. You're reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So my memory wasn't fooling me. I'd just like you to arrange for the next time on the web to match information on the discussion of some material of reality. I've done this before. And it won't make me try and convince you not to do it again. My question, which I'll ask the Minister to answer when I'm done. What happens if we don't approve? If it hurts anyone. I wouldn't like that. Really, no. And if the Minister says that there are serious reasons for us to sign this absurd document in my opinion, I will withdraw my proposal. But I'll try to read to you... I think the opening statement is the opening statement, the opening words go against each other. If I had to sign under a document where I would say "this color is black," and I'm also saying that this color is white. And the third point is that it's going to say "and I realize it's a problem to determine the color," so I wouldn't sign up for this document. However, we have here that the Contracting Parties are aware that the Carpathian ecosystems and landscapes are particularly sensitive. At the same time, the Contracting Parties recognise that an efficient transport system is essential for the quality of life of citizens and enables economic growth and job creation. I agree with that. But right below it is: they are aware that the development of transport infrastructure and the increasing intensity of transport can cause fragmentation of habitats and can have a serious impact on ecosystems. So we say that traffic is important, but at the same time we say that the traffic is making a problem for us. Then, at the same time, we say a sentence that I agree with. The Contracting Parties are convinced that the local population must be able to determine its own social, cultural and economic development and participate in its implementation within its existing institutional framework. Does this mean that if we sign this, we will actually withdraw the right to enter decision-making processes for environmental organisations that do not make up the local population? If that's the case, I'm in. But I'm afraid it's not. But I would really like to know, because I think it's the right idea that what's on their territory should primarily be decided by the population of that territory, that region. In the conditions of the Czech Republic self-government, whether municipal, urban or regional. It is true that this is not particularly the case in the Czech Republic. If we could at least get it through Carpathian territory, okay. Perhaps then we can learn something from the territory of Carpathians and promote it at home in the Czech Republic. I'm already the last time, Minister - I know it's not your fault, it's probably started working on it before you came to the Ministry, because official life is so long and there are still some documents being produced. The various modes of transport are described here. I was slightly ironically quoting what everything is important to transport. I'm not gonna read it again, so it's not gonna be there twice. Let me just get this straight. The important thing is... I have to turn it over... to road traffic. There's always a few articles on how key it is. There's railroad traffic right below it. Also very important. Then water transport - very important. Then air transport - very important. Then the non-motor transport - also very important because, among other things, the Contracting Parties recognise the essential benefits of non-motor transport. The economic development of the region seems to include job creation. I don't know. [[12.50 hours]] So I want to ask you what it's really for, a document where we're going to declare general truths, general goals, we're going to name all modes of transport, and we're going to say that all modes of transport are very important. I really don't understand. And I consider the document completely useless. But I'm saying I don't have all the information, which is why I'm asking what would happen if we didn't approve, if we didn't hurt anyone in his development plans or something. Or is it just one of the dozens of contracts that are created in all the departments of all governments because it just has to be done? Each department has some foreign union, it's doing some kind of activity, and somebody's keeping it, then I guess it's gonna have to be controlled. I do not know how often we will be, if we approve this protocol, how often and who will deal with it at the Ministry of Transport or at the Ministry of the Environment, whether the Minister or his deputy will receive a report once a year, recommendations on further action, etc. This document has a bit of bad luck because we have read it in such detail. I am sure that we discuss similar protocols, conventions and agreements and often very mechanically approve at almost every meeting. So it's not like all the other points in the contract block that we've been discussing in two and a half years are meaningful and great, and this protocol is problematic and weird. That wouldn't be fair to the text. But I think that from time to time it is worth reading in detail the proposals from the contract block and thinking about what it is for, and not just mechanically approving other and other documents. Thank you, Minister, for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u5	Thank you very much. The Minister is here to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I have one thing to say here. So I've got a two-page speech set up here, but I'm gonna try it in my own words. I agree, on the one hand, with Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, that the state administration has a great ability to produce documents that, unfortunately, can sometimes be seen as documents that are merely self-effective and useless. In defence of this document - yes, it began to prepare someone before me, however, I understand it as a document on which the countries passing through the Carpathians have agreed and which they are debating, and those who live in this territory exchange their experience with how well or how difficult they manage to promote transport structures in this territory. Why do we tell ourselves why such a document will be created, yet there are basically repeated thesis that the European Commission or the European Commission's regulation on environmental protection and transport and all things combined. The reason for this is that Ukraine or Serbia, which are not members of the European Union, is also out there, so that these things are done in this way. I would like to say that it is, of course, a document that is very general and full of such phrases. But unfortunately, these are all documents that have an international character, and they are looking for a five-, six-sided act to put in such a document to make sense, but to make everyone agree. So I would like to conclude by saying yes, if we pull out the sentences from most of the documents that are being discussed or from the contracts that are being negotiated, so we can prove that they're going against each other and that they don't make any sense. On the other hand, this is a kind of declaration so that those regions can have fun so that they can exchange experiences, debate matters, and the Czech Republic has signed up for this. I would like to ask here, although it may seem that this document is not entirely important for the Chamber of Deputies to release this document to committee meetings, or it will simply decide otherwise. I don't want to impose anything. I don't think it's any worse than any other contract, and it certainly has a sense for those people who exchange experiences, how they do or fail to build in the Carpathian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u7	Thank you, too, Minister. Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u8	The protocol was signed by the Czech Minister of Transport in August 2014. That was almost two years ago, and nothing happened when we didn't approve. So I don't know if it's really hurting anyone or not. But it's not entirely innocent, because if you look, based on this protocol, a secretariat is created. That's some kind of institution. So I'm wondering if the Czech Republic has representation there, if we're paying for it in any way, how much it costs us. At the same time, it is in one of those provisions that a conference is regularly convened. And since it has been two years, I would like to ask the Minister how many times the conference was and who goes there to see the Czech Republic, or what the results were. Or they just arrived, had a sandwich, took a picture of themselves at the flag of the European Union, documented the presentation document, and thus charged the project correctly and we obtained European money, for example, for international cooperation in the area of non-motor transport in the Carpathian region. I'm really wondering if it's happened at least once in two years. Otherwise, it really is completely formal and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. If I don't see anyone, I'm ending the general debate. I ask the final words: rapporteur, Minister? It's not like that. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? Please, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u10	So it's all about traffic. The economic committee is undoubtedly in charge of transport in the Chamber of Deputies, so I propose ordering this protocol also to the Economic Committee. It's already witnessed by the Minister of Transport and not the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u11	Okay, thank you. I'm not registering any further suggestions. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I shall call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and read the motion for a resolution. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. We will vote on a proposal that agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the foreign committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 191, with 110 Members registered, for proposal 105, against 2. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We will also be voting on this proposal to be directed to the Economic Committee. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 192, 110 Members and Members registered, for proposal 101, against 2. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the Government's proposal has been directed to the Foreign Committee and the Economic Committee. I thank you, end the discussion of this point and adjourn the meeting until 14:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-006-144.u12	I'm very sorry, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would very much like to initiate an oral interview with the absent Prime Minister, but there is not one member of the government. [[Minister Brabec reports presence.]] . I'm sorry, I see one. He's such a stealthy member of the government. It's okay. So we have one member of the government. Well, I'm initiating an oral interview with the Prime Minister, who is unfortunately absent.
