ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u1	124. Proposal by Members Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek and Petr Kudela for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (Law on the Register of Contracts) /Household printing 699/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 699/1 and please refer the proposal to Mr Marian Jurečka for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good evening. I would like to be brief as far as possible, although the issue is quite extensive, and I would like to comment on the proposal already mentioned. Although Budvar is an important employer, he makes part of the profit in the Czech Republic's state budget every year in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. The role that Budjovický Budvar holds in spreading the good name of the Czech Republic abroad is also significant. There are more reasons why this proposal is justified. However, the petitioners consider the following to be crucial. First of all, the specific position of Budvar as an entity operating in a highly developed domestic and international competitive market, the legal uncertainty associated with the protection of business secrets, the deterioration of the status in trade marks, the restriction of contractual freedom and the imminent deterioration of the business results of Budvar, with effects on the state budget and employment. Below, I would like to discuss some of the reasons in more detail. The specific position of Budvar as an entity operating in a highly developed domestic and international competitive market. First of all, it is necessary to take into account the very nature of Budvar and the purpose for which it was founded. Budvar is a legal entity established in private law for the purpose of producing and selling products in the field of fast-track goods. This is therefore exclusively a business activity developed in a highly competitive environment aimed at achieving profit. As part of its activities, Budvar concludes countless contracts with its business partners on both the purchase and sale side, with the value of the transactions in the vast majority of cases exceeding CZK 50 000. These contracts are the result of trade negotiations between two or more entities on the basis of many specific facts arising from the nature of the subject matter of the performance, but also from the nature of the parties themselves. Budvar is in the field of fast-track goods, which is characterised by a high degree of competition, which is largely made up of multinationals with a majority market share. For this reason, it is essential for Budvar to maintain the ability to negotiate the terms of the supplier-customer relationship so that these are the most advantageous for Budvar and, at the same time, to have no competition. In a situation where Budvar is subject to an obligation to publish contracts concluded by Budvar, he is forced to reveal to competition all his trading conditions agreed with specific partners on the sales side of the goods. This is also the case with the purchase of raw materials and materials, when the publication of contracts makes Budvar lose any possibility of providing suppliers with more favourable condition. In the end, the situation may result in Budvar being forced to accept conditions completely disadvantageous and non-profitable. At the same time, Budvar becomes less attractive to potential business partners who are interested in maintaining the confidentiality of the full text of the contracts. Legal uncertainty related to the protection of business secrets. If the Act on the Register of Contracts contains the protection of business secrets, then such protection is from a competitive point of view -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will request that you lower your left side of the hall in order to understand what you're talking about. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u4	According to the Civil Code, commercial secrecy is defined as competitive, significant, identifiable, appreciated and in the relevant business circles normally inaccessible facts related to the plant and the owner of which ensures, in its interest, their confidentiality accordingly. These characters are always assessed in relation to a specific case. However, it should be taken into account that, in addition to business secrets, contracts contain other competitively important facts which do not benefit from the protection of business secrets, but are so delicate and significant for the parties that the parties have an urgent interest in their secrecy. These facts include the text of the contract itself, as it reflects the business strategy of the company and also know-how, which, although not having its own legal definition, but the professional literature describes it clearly as a manufacturing-technical, but also technological, organisational, commercial or other knowledge that is not usually the result of creative activities, but a long-term reality with the optimal course of a process of technology and recipe. The relationship between know-how and business secrets cannot be defined unambiguously, and these concepts are often misidentified. These are two separate asset values that can only overlap. In some cases, therefore, the know-how contained in the Budvar contracts does not have to enjoy the protection of business secrets. This does not mean, however, that it is not a matter of substance for a business strategy and a competitive position. In this way, I could continue with a very detailed analysis of the fundamental priorities that I was talking about. However, I want to say that these are the main reasons which were the motive for submitting this bill. Since the Act on the Register of Contracts will become effective on 1 July 2016, which is the day on which this law must also take effect, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies comply with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, gave its consent to the draft law at first reading. If the Chamber of Deputies does not agree to the approval of the law at first reading, I would like to ask for the possibility of shortening the discussions in the Chamber of Deputies committees to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u5	Thank you, Minister. Now, the rapporteur for the first reading, to which the Organising Committee has appointed Mr Radek Vondráček, should take the floor, but on a proposal from the President of the Constitutional Committee, there is a request for a change of the rapporteur, so that Mr Chvojka becomes Mr. Given the fact that I am registering here the request to amend the rapporteur, I will put it to a vote. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the proposal for a change to the rapporteur for this press to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 84. Members and Members are registered 158, for proposal 129, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I will therefore ask the rapporteur Chvojka to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't think I have anything to add to what the Minister said. It's basically a very short amendment that has a certain ratio. Rather, I would like to point out that the government's position was neutral, and I would almost say neutral by decision, but when one reads the reasoning of that opinion, it is rather slightly negative. Therefore, I believe that it might be better not to approve the law at first reading in an accelerated procedure, but to refer it to the Committees, in particular, on the ground of a constitutionally legal committee. But, of course, the decision is ours. Anyway, I'd like to thank you for the gift or the challenge, for being the reporter of the contract register, which was basically completed in November, and now here he is again. So I felt a certain emptiness in my parliamentary work, even though I had enough of the job, but I missed the register of contracts. I was in charge of him for a year and a half, so he's here again, and I'm glad and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u7	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Jan Klán has the first and Mr Farský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, fellow Members, honourable Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we come to a point which was here a certain Evergreen in the previous and in this Chamber of Deputies, a register of treaties. The form of the Act on the Register of Contracts went through the approval at the end of last year when he returned it to us in the version in which he accepted it. It was de facto the one Budvar we are dealing with. He introduced the UOHS there, albeit senselessly, and a lot of other things. However, the House has accepted its version, which we are now going to do a little bit of repairing. My appeal, when I spoke here last year, that the introduction of a register of contracts would put Budvar in jeopardy as part of the market's competitiveness, and in order to be exempted, no one accepted. Everyone laughed at me that it was absolute nonsense, that it wasn't true, because it could black out things, business secrets, and it could black out what it wanted. So suddenly the representatives of all sides came from right to left and suddenly they said: we must remove this Budvar as ČEZ. Although no one applied to ČEZ when he got an exception from the scope of the register of contracts, because it is a listed company, but Budvar was forgotten. [[17.50 hours]] Suddenly, Minister Jurečka woke up and said: it is necessary to remove Budvar. But he didn't just wake up, Minister Jurečka. When the Senate law came back, Minister Mládek woke up when he said - he was telling us clearly which state-owned companies would be in danger. So let's think about what's really going on in the contract register. So there are a few butes. Let's continue. When I pointed out e.g. To threaten Budvar's national enterprise, so everyone was laughing. If we look at it all in the face of the present, then state, semi-state or municipal companies are taking their profits into the relevant budget. In the case of state and semi-state enterprises, their profit is the income of the state budget, in the case of municipal or regional firms the municipal or regional budget. If these firms in the register of contracts are forced to publish their concluded contracts over 50,000, as the law on the register of contracts imposes, this will certainly put them at risk of competitiveness. That's my opinion. But I don't think it's just mine. If I take the words of the director of the national company Budvar Jiří Boček, the register of contracts in the case of Budvar will be damaged by Budvar in stamp disputes with Anheuser-Busch, who, as I said, is already here snooping like a dog and is in Plzeň. So let's be very careful about that. In addition, in his view, Budvar's register of contracts would put up a loss of up to half a billion crowns. I wonder where the state would then receive such wasted funds. So I'm definitely in favour of Budvar getting out of the law. However, we are now coming to other state and semi-state enterprises. There's no need to remove those from the contract register? I say it's necessary. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the register of contracts is not about healing our system, because it's supposed to be some kind of anti-corruption law, but it's not about anti-corruption law. And when we ask ourselves the fundamental question of whether a citizen who looks into the contract register will save anything. It's not like he's gonna save anything. If the contract is concluded at a disadvantage, he'll just look at it sadly. The registration of contracts is about proving that the state is a bad economy in our terms, ladies and gentlemen. And we're at the core of the problem. Now, I'm going to show you two thought experiments with thought experiments, where I'm going to show you that the state can't be a good or a bad economy, as the state says. At the same time, I'll show you in the example of Budvar what will happen if he is not removed from the contract register law. Of course, the same applies to other state and semi-state enterprises. Example one. The argument for the introduction of a register of contracts is that the state is a poor economy. Let us admit that the state is a bad economy in the Czech Republic. But the state itself is neither a bad nor a good caretaker. The result, which we refer to as a bad economyman, is primarily due to inappropriate, ineffective, incorrect or poorly set regulations, i.e. primarily by laws. These rules are designed to enable public administrations and public administrations to behave in a manner that results in what is called: the state is a poor economy. In fact, it's the result of the behavior of individual government bodies that act that way because it allows them to restrain, the rules of conduct given by the laws...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u9	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask you, colleagues, to keep it down so that we can hear what Mr Klán is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u10	Thank you for the peace of mind. The consequence of such behaviour is inefficiency, inefficiency and inefficiency of the management of public resources. The idea that the register of contracts will change that is a complete illusion. After all, it will show a further development, whether it will or not. The problem is that it is necessary to set up an effective general regulation, especially the Public Finance Control Act, which is still out of sight, and the Public Procurement Act, which we will approve here this Friday. And these two laws in practice require. The Act on the Register of Contracts only solves a partial problem. The whole system needs to be solved or treated. It's like a disease. A good doctor does not treat symptoms, i.e. symptoms, e. g. pain, just analgesics or sedatives, but he's looking for what's causing the pain. When removing the cause solves the problem. So let us be good doctors in our case. The contract register itself won't solve it. Let's heal the system as a whole. The register of contracts can only be one of the partial instruments, but it would not be necessary if we had fully functioning key laws, the law on public procurement, the law on public finance control, the Act on property control, budgetary rules and many others. There are holes everywhere in these laws and holes are made in new ones. Like in the Civil Service Act, for example. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as the case may be, the register of contracts does not heal anything and is only a partial instrument for controlling the management of public money or goods. Example two, already mentioned here Budvar. This single national enterprise is threatened by the introduction of a register of contracts in the context of competitiveness on the market, in particular in the area of the Budweiser dispute with Anheuser-Busch. At the same time, it brings considerable funds to the state budget. The idea experiment rests on the following thing. Budvar will have to publish in the register of contracts all contracts with a nominal value of CZK 50,000. However, this is already waiting for the tender competition, which is ready to damage Budvar with all possible means. As soon as the contract is published in the contract register, anyone can look into it. Well, even predatory competition. The claim that Budvar can blacken the data that would put him at risk on the market did not convince me in any way, because the price will also have a determining factor in this case, but also other identification data. I can actually imagine that competition will deliberately lower some of the prices on the market in order to liquidate Budvar. As this way slowly but surely destroys our gem, it will already prepare to divide this weakened prey. Budvar will then be labeled as inefficient, uncompetitive, loser, etc. So it will be gradually privatized, or let us understand liquidation. That's what fresh competition is waiting for. As Budvar is gradually privatized, there will be a weakening of the flow of money into the state budget. Then I wonder where governments will take money when privatization only brings profits once, while the functioning of state enterprises keeps making profits. So it is necessary, in my opinion, to remove all state and parastate enterprises from the register of contracts. And example three. The problem of the relationship between state monopolists and private monopolists. I was here at the end of last year saying the problem with the Czech Railways versus the Student Agency. They both want to be certain monopolists in some way. The Czech Railways are a national carrier, so in some ways they are a state monopolist, whereas the Student Agency would like to be a private monopolist. In its essence, both monopolyists are somehow bad, but a state monopoly can be regulated by the state in the public interest. Private can't, it's only about profit. In my opinion, the State should have under it strategic enterprises, companies or transport and many others, precisely companies and infrastructure, which is regulated or can be regulated by the State in the public interest. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we must realise what is really going on here. In the contract register, it is not about healing the system as a whole, but only about using information from contracts, for example. third parties. From this, I appeal to the government to remove from the contract register not only the Budvar that is mentioned here, but also other state-owned companies, even parastate companies, or to name them by tax, which will not be covered by the contract register. There's a state-owned enterprise law, so let's put it in him when he's here to discuss it. That doesn't just have to be in the contract register. If he does not do so, he will bear his share of the blame for their liquidation, or in the terminology of right-wing neoliberal parties to privatise them. [[18.00 hours]] It is precisely because I am worried about Budvar, but also about other state enterprises, so I will vote, as well as, I suppose, the entire KSČM parliamentary club, for removing Budvar from the register of contracts. And if the 90th is vetoed, which is not expected in any way so far, I will, of course, also support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days for committee discussions and submit an appropriate amendment to remove state firms from the register of contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have three factual points here. First of all, Mr Stupčuk, the rapporteur, and then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is sad that we have a government bill that has not yet entered into force. This tells a lot about the quality of the legislative process relating to the approval of this law. What the Minister says, of course, is true, the arguments are relevant to the debate. I just want to point out that all these arguments have already been made in the adoption of the law. I do not understand why we then voted in favour of the final form. I also don't think it's appropriate for us to approach this in such a case. In my view, there is no difference between Budvar and state-owned enterprises from the point of view of the material concept relating to the activities of state-owned enterprises and the national undertaking. That is why I think that if we want to have this debate, we should also conduct it so that we can include the state enterprises, if any. other state organisations where these negative impacts may be in the form of externalities resulting from an approved law. In this sense, I would also like to suggest whether it would be more appropriate to consider delaying the effectiveness of this law in order to create a time-frame for mapping precisely the effects on individual state organisations, in particular state enterprises and Budvar, because I think that in this situation it would be most responsible than in such a way that Budvar would be able to do so. I think the Minister has in his department not only a national enterprise but also a number of state enterprises and other state organisations. So I'd take that as a subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u13	Thank you, too. Now, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u14	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the harsh speech of my colleague Klán and the speech of my colleague Stupčuk. Some things I'd like to add, some things I'd like to sort of fix. First of all, of course, or not of course, but through Mr Stupčuk. It's not a government proposal, it's an MP's proposal. The government spoke to him and had a negative opinion, but rather a negative one, as I said in my opening speech. [[You didn't?]] I think it is precisely because she has given some guidance on what should still be adjusted, so I think that we should not solve the problem only within the accelerated first reading, but at least refer the press to the guarantee committee, which was constitutionally legal in the past period, and should, of course, remain. It is quite funny and perhaps sad, as the law, the closer it is to its effectiveness, as some subjects and, after all, journalists, because perhaps I recommend a large, comprehensive article in the Lidové noviny on Monday, on the whole page that covered the register of contracts and which was rather negative to this standard. Two years before that, Lidové noviny was almost fanatical in support of this law. So who would like to read something about the register of contracts other than seen positively, get Monday's Lidové noviny. I would still like to correct my colleague Kláno through Mr President. The Act on the Register of Contracts does not contain a single word, as he said, the exception of ČEZ. There is no exception for ČEZ. It is simply an exception for companies listed on the stock exchange and does not, of course, prevent any other company from the law, if it is possible for it to be listed on the stock exchange, and it would also fall out of the registration obligation in the register of contracts. So that's it, some supplement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u15	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I was inspired by my colleague Klán by the wise call to address the causes, not the symptoms. The reason, let's face it, is the fact that our state still owns a brewery. State, let's see him as a company, which is the definition of . Babiš, or whether we see him as a community of people, which is the definition of profesor Weber, people have set up for every possible reason for the performance of public services, but certainly not to own a brewery and cook a bottom-flavored lager. This is simply an activity beyond the function of the state. And for more than 20 years, some of us have tried in vain to eliminate this systemic deficiency, and from the left, or from the right, we have always encountered resistance. Even the forged members of the ODS always shouted: No, never! We can't sell Budvar as national silver! So if we can't do it this way, let's try to fix the symptoms in the spirit of policy in the last few days by reverse - nationalization, Nošovice, Staropramen, Lobkowicz chain, it's all going to be state, it's going to be subject to a register of contracts, and then the breweries will publish their contracts in a fully competitive environment and there will be no comparative disadvantage. Be an honor to work!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u17	Another point of fact is made by Mr Jan Zahradník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u18	Mr Vice-President, I would like to comment on this. Definitely longtime ODS members who are South Bohemia's politicians who still feel like South Bohemia's politics, which Mr. previous spokesperson certainly is no longer, are sure that once Budvar's national enterprise is released from this statute for a hundred seconds and is transformed into a joint-stock company to be sold, the lawyers of Anheuser-Busch will jump on it in this set of seconds and, as a bold prey, they will bite it and be the veto after it. That is why I think and therefore it is my belief that South Bohemian Budvar must remain a national enterprise and that it must not be privatised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u19	Thank you. Another with priority rights is the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u20	So I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here. First of all, the Minister of Agriculture has not slept. There was simply a mistake, which I honestly admit, when he failed to load in time - and my colleagues from the resort were responsible for this - and I had long been talking to them - an amendment at the time in the Chamber of Deputies, so that Budvar would be removed by then. However, we then sought intensive communication in the Senate, which complied with this, but unfortunately added some other parts, which the Chamber of Deputies then refused to accept here. That is why we have come to this stage when I am presenting a Member of the amendment to this law. However, in practice I tried to explain here that for this Budvar it is really difficult to comply with the diction of the law in what is therefore allowed and must not publish what is an indication that we can black out and which can not, because even the nature of the treaties and texts can be what is crucial for the future of Budvar. And I have to say that I didn't want to come to this stage in order to have a discussion here over other businesses, because that should be the case for the ministers who might be here to comment on this for these departments, it is not for me to discuss, but I am here to defend the Czech Republic and Budvar as such. [[18.10 hours]] And what Mr Kalousek said, is it absurd or is it not whether the state should or should not be brewing beer? You know, I asked myself these questions a few years ago, too. And when I look at many other countries and Western Europe, I look at states like Germany, Sweden, Norway, when I go north, these are states that normally own quite large corporations through various funds, even businesses that do business in the Czech Republic. They employ tens of thousands of people around the world. And I say one thing: the state has and can do business. If he can do it, it makes sense, and it's an asset to the state and society, then let the state cook beer. On the example of Budvar, I think it's one of the examples of God's thanks that this Budvar is still a national enterprise. 'Cause the beer's cooking in Budejovice. Because the question is, what would happen if Anheuser-Busch could control Budvar if he was even interested in cooking there? And then it's also a sample of one of the key breweries that the state hasn't put into privatization and which really spreads the good name of Czech beer around the world because it exports to more than 70 countries. The other breweries, such as Plzeňský Prazdroj and so on, of course, here the policy of the parent companies, which clearly determine the export strategy and which is not always, let's say, ideally in line with the development of traditional good Czech brewing in the world. So I am clearly convinced that it needs to be said here that for this state, for taxpayers the ownership of the national company Budvar is clearly an asset. It is verifiable for employment, for the amounts that this company makes to the state tax and tax budgets for its employees and also for the contributions of the profit that Budvar makes, which it also makes to the state budget. So please, let us also look at this from this point of view, that this business is really, from a social perspective, an asset to the national economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u21	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. Mr Kalousek, Mr Jan Klán and Mr Stupčuk, have the first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u22	I'm sorry, I'm gonna stop because it's not a debate about privatizing national businesses. But I couldn't help but overreact to that word about the symptoms. I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture, a member of the Conservative Christian Party, really believed what he's saying right now. As if what would happen to Budvar, the evil Helmut would put him on a wheelbarrow, take him somewhere and throw him into the abyss and stop brewing and the good name of the Czech brewery would stop spreading just as much as when we privatized the Prazdroj. Or Starobrno or Staropramen. So the foreigner invested quite significantly in this, and the brand Prazdroje, although it is not in the hands of the Czech state today, in the case of the Ministry of Agriculture under Minister Jurečka, I must say thank God, it spreads the good name of Czech brewery and the brand Plzeňský Prazdroj around the world and has increased its exhibitions several times and increased its exports to the whole world. That's what happened to the Privatized Prazdroj. The same thing would happen to a privatized Budvar. For proboha's sake, no one buys anything like that to destroy it, but to develop it, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u23	Thank you. Before I give my word, Mr Klán, I would like to ask, Minister - I have registered your application, but I do not know if it is a factual remark or a preferential right. [[Call off the microphone.]] With priority rights, okay. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u24	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to my previous speakers. First of all, by means of you on behalf of my colleague Kalousek. For example, we can compare this to sugar factories. How many there were and how many they cost today, how many they make today. I don't know if it was a purpose or an intention to eliminate them, but that's another thing and another question. As far as Pilsner Urquell is concerned, Pilsner Urquell and Anheuser-Busch have recently merged with InBev. It was almost over a billion crowns - not crowns, billion dollars. No, it was a dollar, if I'm not mistaken, and the state didn't see a penny of it, everything was taken abroad. Here we have to realize that Budvar brings money to the state budget. And even in a number of respects, the government is counting on that income. I'm just worried that if we privatize the Budvar, the profits will go abroad. For example, tax havens and other places. That's all science. And if - here I would still respond to Minister Jurečka, whether he was sleeping or not, or then he woke up about this problem with Budvar, I say he probably slept because two years of the contract register was being discussed here in a certain way. It could have been negotiated a long time ago, and we didn't have to deal with it here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u25	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk, Mr Zahradník, will now be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u26	Thank you for the floor. No, then, Minister, I agree with you, I already said it in my first performance. I just think, and I don't think you should hold on to the only national business in Budvar. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture is also the founder of certain state enterprises, so I think that at least for them you should strive to include the list, the negative list, also those state enterprises. Even if your argument is that the activity is not as sensitive materially in those business relationships as in Budvar, you must feel a certain shared responsibility as a member of the government for other state enterprises. And I think that if there's such a opener on the job that we really should think seriously about not spreading the negative list to those state-owned businesses, maybe it could be other organizations, I didn't do the analysis. And I think it's a shame that the analysis of the impact of the law just wasn't here when we passed the law. And that's the basic problem. Again, until today, no one has explained who will be responsible or who will judge the correctness of the blacking of those data that represent deviations from the general regulation, such as the application of business secrets, because of course there is a binding efficiency. That means who says you should have blacked this one out, not this one anymore, and that's why the contract is invalid backwards. And, of course, the addressees of that obligation do not know who will then judge the application of the law that they will do. If they have to do it, or if the person who's going to publish the contracts is responsible for the correctness, that is to say, publish the contracts on the portal. So I want to say that, of course, the issue is much more complex, but I am glad that you have come up with this proposal, I understand it and I support it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u27	Thank you. Now, Mr Zahradník, Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u28	Mr Vice-President, I'm just going to add a technical note. The situation with Budvar is a little different. It is world-renowned not only because it produces excellent beer, but also because it has a world-renowned protected brand, which is actually based on the German name of the regional city of the South Bohemia Region, i.e. České Budějovice, German Budweis. So it's a beer sold under the name Budweiser Budvar. And there is a large brewery in the American city of Saint Luis, which produces a liquid, which is also called beer, under the very same protected brand, also Budweiser Beer. And they're going all over the world, or after a large part of it, marked disputes about this brand. And I just wanted to say, by the hundredth of a second, I meant that if Budvar's company is transformed in any way, then in that hundredth of a second, when it's all going to be free, those lawyers who are rehearsed and already know what to do, they're going to jump on that brand and without a brand, however good a beer, however good it is, without that brand, its sales value and the value of the brewery will be broken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u29	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to return to Mr Klán's first speech, if I may address him through you. You know, it's kind of a bad day to discuss property. We ran into a problem this morning, whether it's okay or not, or is it going to be some kind of nationalization in the area of public health insurance? And now we have a little bit of the opposite problem, and we're getting into this loop. I'd presume I have nothing against state-owned businesses. For years, I've been running a big fellowship state organization. And the business is probably what the classic says: If you want to be employed with us, you don't have to be crazy, but it will help. So if you're a little crazy, even that state enterprise can manage and earn and prosper. But what you're saying here about the bad conditions of these businesses is really going to put you at an impasse with this state enterprise, because now you're hearing the debate that it would be best if all state companies didn't fall under the contract register law, so it would be best to break the law according to this logic that you're running here. And then you come up with a logic similar to the fact that if all state-owned enterprises have poor conditions for their management, then they all have to get into better conditions and the better ones will be the same as the private companies, or, in fact, you want to privatize them. That's how it works for me. I'm sorry. I hope it doesn't hurt your side, but it seems to be coming to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Václav Votava, Mr Václav Votava, has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Heger and I have already explained something about nationalizing this morning. He's not listening to me right now. I say, Mr President, that we have already talked about nationalization here in the morning and explained how your speech was meant at all. If it's not the other way around now. About privatization. Or a sneaking first step into privatization. Not to some, but to privatize Budvar. It's true that if Budvar has to be subject to, like, a yes so far, he's actually going to be subject to the publication of contracts in that register, he's going to be completely naked. Totally naked. And I'm sure he's in a competitive environment, and that's not just about the trademark disputes, it's just that he's in that environment. And maybe he's already in someone's mind: the weaker he gets, the better he gets for sale, the better he gets. I don't know. My colleague Kalousek nods, so I don't know if, colleague, by means of that, if you agree with what I'm saying. [[A note from Mr Kalousek from the diaper.]] Oh, okay. I don't blame you for that. God forbid. No, my colleague Heger here also said that it would be best to abolish the entire law. I think it would be appropriate, because the law is really bad. It's bad, it's bad, it's bad for businesses with state-owned assets, obviously. And it shouldn't have been a parliamentary proposal at all. I can say this with a calm conscience, because I did not vote for it, for this proposal, precisely because it harms businesses with state ownership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u33	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr. Votava is leaving the microphone.]] Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u34	Thank you. So I just want to say briefly, the looks are different. I really have a fairly conservative view that the state should protect its property, develop a national economy, primarily develop domestic capital, support domestic companies, although it should not, of course, defend itself against foreign investment. The magic of Budvar compared to Plzeňský Prazdroj is that Budvar, Budějovický from 99.9%, buys its raw materials for all its production only from Czech suppliers in the Czech Republic. I know that for sure. So that's the difference in the fact that Budvar here can really pull all of his suppliers from the Czech Republic, whether they're farmers, glass suppliers, top suppliers, paper labels, and I don't know what else. This is the huge added value when this company, which owns the state, is thus responsible to domestic suppliers, domestic economies and in a hard market environment. We cannot always say that about those who have come and bought breweries in the Czech Republic and are foreign owners. And just for the record, I've been looking into the specifics. For example, such a company, Stora Enso, which employs 30,000 people worldwide, in the Czech Republic more than a thousand, is owned by the Finnish and Swedish states. So here's a demonstration that even big companies can be owned by the state and they can be very successful. However, this is not the subject of discussion as to whether Budvar privatizes yes or no. We are discussing whether to grant him this exemption within the framework of the amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts. That's the essence of tonight's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u35	Thank you. Mr. Kalousek's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u36	Thank you. Through the President, Minister, it is getting better and better. Don't name for God the managers of your own state-owned businesses whose founder you are, unwittingly into misfortune. Either all sub-contractors buy from 99 percent in the Czech Republic, because it is simply the most advantageous, I want to believe it, and then it is very right, or it is not the most advantageous, they commit protectionism and crime violations of obligations in the management of foreign property. So please don't put that as a priority. I like to believe they buy everything in the Czech Republic. And I have no choice but to believe if they act by the law that it is because it is simply the most advantageous purchase possible. Otherwise, they can't do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u37	Thank you. So now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u38	Thanks for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in November we voted here, and it was 110 votes which, knowing all the information, and I would like to say that no new ones even spoke today, voted over the law that came in the Senate version, where Budvar was actually excluded. If I recall correctly, there were no agricultural subsidies, which now turns out that their biggest beneficiary is Agrofert. At the time, I had no idea why we were going to bring this up from the law, and now it's a little bit clearer. Yet there were 110 voices that said, and I think it was sometimes November 26th that they took the law as proposed. And two or three months have passed, and we have not learned anything new, and I do not see the whole reason for this to change today. I looked for him in the documents that went to the government that assessed this parliamentary proposal. And since you certainly haven't all had a chance to get acquainted with the presentation report on this press, I would just like to say that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture have spoken about it. The Ministry of Finance does not recommend accepting this proposal by Minister Jurečka. The Ministry of Industry also gives a negative opinion stating that it is nonsystemic and cannot be considered compatible with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The Justice Department is giving a negative opinion and saying it's a non-conceptional proposal. The Ministry of Interior here reveals something from last year's negotiations and writes that the proposed text corresponds to the agreement reached at the level of political representation, because Budvar and the protection of publicly owned enterprises were the topic that delayed the adoption of the law for a year was the topic that was dealt with for a year. And the answer to Budvar and his comments on the fact that it weakens his position, puts him at a disadvantage is § 5 para. 6, which, contrary to the Act on Free Access to Information, Act No. 106/1999 Coll., extends the possibility of using business secrets. [[18.30 hours]] In other words, if any contract, which Budvar has and is interesting and valuable for competition, if the competition wants it, it will receive it today, and if it doesn't want to give it, it will end up as Prague and can be declared a execution on Budvar, which we certainly do not want either Budvar or any of us. The register of contracts requires the publication of less information than is approved under 106. So even this argument is kind of on the water. But a year has been worked out how to have a register of contracts, and yet not to harm and endanger publicly owned enterprises. The government came to a solution, defined mandatory entities, defined a pretty wide exception, although I was not entirely pleased with it, but I accepted it because it was a compromise that was reached in this political representation. Next The Ministry of the Interior adds that this proposed solution does not appear to be systemic, raises issues of equality parties, and expresses disagreement. The Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government then demonstrates that although the explanatory memorandum refers to the shortcomings of the Act on the Register of Contracts, the problems and damages that practice will bring but is not specific on these points. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Perhaps it is not surprising that one ministry expressed its support for this proposal, namely the Ministry of Agriculture. So if we make a score, it's a four-time negative opinion from the ministries on this proposal and one positive opinion from the Ministry of Minister Jurečka. This background has also been translated into the Government's position, and I dare say here that the fact that it has received a neutral and not a negative position is due only to the fact that the petitioner was a colleague, a member of the government. Because when you read your own text, you read about unsystematicity, you will read about the mentioned section 5 paragraph. 6 where the national undertaking's right not to publish metadata relating to the identification of the parties or the price is regulated when the subject of a business secret for the protection of the business activity of the national undertaking. This paragraph was just inserted into the Act on the Register of Contracts for Budvar. Furthermore, it says that the same argument as used for Budvar can also be applied to a number of other entities which are essentially in the same position. And I would like to emphasise that, because if this coalition has decided that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u39	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but once again the noise level is very high. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u40	Thank you. I mean, if the coalition has decided to remove Budvar from the contract register law, then if it has that will to remove business entities, then let it propose removing all of them. But just to look out for Budvar, to leave others there, it's unsystical, it's wrong, and it's part of the government's position. So if the coalition wants to gut the contract register, let it do it, but with an open look and not hide behind the ram of this proposal in the '90s. And since, as unsystmatic as this proposal is, it is unsystemic to its solution, I suggest rejecting it from this point at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u41	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, are you suggesting that you refuse at first reading? Thank you, I will note this and give the floor to Mr Komárek, who is reporting with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u42	I want to respond to my colleague Farský. As far as content is concerned, I would very much like to support it, because the contract register law was long and painfully created, and I considered it a great victory for transparency and decency when we approved it. Please, let's not make exceptions. Let's open the door. And it's like with the jews. Budvar's little finger sticks in there, and all the state, non-state and other institutions are about to come in. Please don't do this. I cannot, however, respond to such minor political nudges that I don't think had anything to do with the otherwise very good content of Mr Farský's speech when he was talking about Agrofert. I know it's kind of folklore, talking about Agrofert all the time, it's nice to be advertising him like that, but maybe he doesn't need it. But Mr. Farský should remember, and he remembers that it was ANO that helped him the most, and it was his credit that he came up with the law, but ANO helped him the most to actually pass the law. AND YES voted against the exceptions. I hope that YES will continue to vote against the exceptions. So please, Mr Farský, through Mr President, let us keep these political kicks when we are actually on the same page on this issue. It's stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u43	Thank you. A real point is made by Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to add that the law was passed by votes across the political spectrum and would never have passed if the opposition had not supported it, because the coalition did not have enough votes to approve it. And I want to use this comment to appeal just now to those 110 Members who supported this law last November, two months ago - and I firmly believe they knew what they were voting about - to support my proposal to reject this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u45	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u46	Thank you for the floor. I, like my colleague Farský, want to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Komárek, who, of course, as most people, is always wrong. Because the law really didn't pass because of YES. Exactly as my colleague Farský said, almost all parties voted for the law in cross-cutting terms. Of course, it is not 100% for what it looks like in the finals, some things were simply not politically accessible at the time, especially a three-member group of people who negotiated for the coalition, i.e. I, for example, your colleague Vondráček and colleague Mihola. So it's not something that ANO is responsible for, and that if it didn't support it, it wouldn't be here. That's just a lie. A lot of people voted for the law. Of course, there were various amendments, some of which have passed, some of which have not. It's a question of how it's gonna be now. I think the closer it comes to proving that the law will be effective, i.e. From now on, in three months and some 29 days, the more it turns out that the law can just cause some problems. For example, I've been remembering two pretty major objections over the past month. First from the director of Motol Hospital, which I think is quite a relevant person who might have a problem with the law. He argues that in some cases the lives of some people may even be at risk because it simply takes a machine or medication to be delivered immediately and must not wait for a contract. The second thing, the director of Czech Television also argued, for example, among others. by making it a big problem to broadcast some programs or buy rights on them simply because the law does not make it possible according to how it was approved. So no yes. All coalition parties, plus the opposition, voted in favour of the law, and everyone, of course, may have had a different opinion about the law as to what it should look like, but it certainly wasn't just because of YES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u47	Thank you. Before I give another word, I'll read the note. From 6:00 p.m. during today's work, Mr Šarapatka apologizes, from 5:35 p.m. to the end of the day, for family reasons, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes, and from 18:00 p.m. for health reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologises. I'm registering a few factual remarks. Mr Stupčuk, Mr Komárek, has the first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u48	Thank you for the floor. I guess I haven't understood the law to this day, which is why I would like to turn to my colleague Farský. Publication of contracts - is this administrative activity according to the administrative order? Who will assess the eligibility of application of individual exceptions to blacking or business secrets or other exceptions? Is it the authority that's responsible for the publication, or is it someone else? And if there is a dispute as to whether the right exception is applied, who will judge such a dispute? And still in a situation where, of course, the effectiveness of contracts is bound to this publication. I still don't know. The law has already been published in the Collection, but I don't know if it's administrative. Who is responsible, which authority, to assess the exceptions? Will the administrative order be followed? Will this be a review under the Administrative Code of Procedure? These are all questions that remain unanswered and which, I think, would need to be answered here in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u49	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Komárek. I will ask you repeatedly, colleagues and colleagues, for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This room isn't called House of Cards, but sometimes we don't listen to each other. It's about Mr Chvojka. I wasn't talking about voting. Of course, I am very pleased that at this rational point, part of the coalition was able to agree with part of the opposition to pass a law that I consider extremely necessary and important. I also appreciate how Mr Chvojka helped him. I simply responded to the useless undertone of my colleague Farský, whom I otherwise support and admire for how he fought for this law. But I must insist that YES, and especially some members of YES have actually done their utmost to ensure that this law passes in a relatively strong form so that compromises are bearable to all parties to the dispute. I repeat, opening the door for exceptions is a road to hell. I agree with Mr Farský on that. Please, let's not do this. I do not think it is absolutely necessary to reject this proposal directly, because the parliamentary procedure is really useful, it is not some kindergarten. It's not important. But I'm definitely prepared to vote against this law unless someone convinces me of something other than the phrases that fall here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u51	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u52	I just think Mr. Stupčuk here has made it clear what kind of trouble this could bring. I'm not a lawyer, but I understand that, too. Business secret - and now I'm going to bring it up on the Budvar case - is the other party. Is that a sensitive figure? Is it a business secret? I think in a number of cases, yes, if the competition knows who Budvar is dealing with. And if Budvar blacks it out, he puts it in the register, who's going to assess whether it could be there or not, whether he's done the formalities or not? There's really a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u53	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u54	Thank you for the floor. I think we have many experienced a celebration of the adoption of the law, where the arrivals personally welcomed Andrej Babiš and said that they pushed for it. In my opinion, a slight poke from my colleague Farský was still mild. The government coalition has 111 votes. I am speaking to Mr Komárek, through the Vice-President. The government coalition has 111 votes and can use them, for example, when it renames November 17. 70 government MPs voted in favour of this law, so 41 fell down. And 40 opposition Members voted in favour of it. And even ten civil democrats, including me. Without ten votes of civil democrats, the law would get 100 votes and fall under the table. The fact that one party, one politician, took it upon himself, rather than everyone thanking my colleague Farský, with whom I personally discussed it for three years, knew my opinion, in the end we both voted because they had passed some amendments to the law, and we accepted it. Today, we are in a situation where the law is not yet effective, and already government MPs, and even the minister is proposing a change. I'm pointing out that we didn't adopt the law quickly, we've been discussing it for almost two years. It was distributed to the Members in December 2013 and the final vote on the Senate version was in November 2015. Good morning, Minister. After two years, you're awake. [[The Minister of Agriculture.]] I already talked about it when we discussed it in the Senate version of what you were doing. But I want to remind you, and only some of us who were lucky enough to get an appointment from the President's hands, and if you remember correctly, Minister, the president says, "I name you as a member of the government," that's crucial, and then he says to most, "and I entrust you to the management of a particular resort." So your argument that you're the Minister of Agriculture and that the problem concerns other members of the government and you don't care is really alibi. First of all, you are a member of the government, you are voting on all the bills of law, all the matters that the government decides, and then you are the Minister of Agriculture. When you read the Government's statement, it says neutral only because coalition MPs and minister put it there. If you read the justification, and so did my predecessors, if the same bill had been filed by opposition Members, that would have been the same position in substance by the government, but it would have been rejected. I understand. That's how it's done. That's how our coalition government does it. It's done in terms of good coalition relationships. I will not repeat the arguments of many previous speakers. Many of you on the microphone or privately told me: veto it. You don't have the guts. I'll do it. On behalf of the two ODS and TOP 09 MPs, I veto the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2. We're done here. The non-systemic solution for Budvar is gone. I, among the 110, will vote in favour of the proposal by my colleague Farský to reject this proposal. Not because the arguments we've heard today aren't valid. But they're not new. We've heard them all over the two years we've acted in. Many of the amendments, including mine, that would mitigate the law, protect some companies, you legitimately rejected them. There's no point in saying who voted. The law will only be effective in four months. What kind of job is it that we're trying to novelize? As long as I'm looking at it in the ministry, what about ČD Cargo? I know it's from the Department of Transport, but you're a member of the government, Minister of Agriculture, and I'm sure you've heard of ČD Cargo's economic problems, which is a company that deserves privatisation, which operates in a completely open market for freight transport, and there the negativity of publication is the same as in Budvar. Moreover, I believe that Budvar, ČD Cargo and other companies can protect their business secrets thanks to the final wording of the law. Firstly, this will concern new contracts and only new contracts. This means that it is on the Contracting Parties that it designates in the contents of the contract as a business secret. [[18.50 hours]] Even the nullity penalty is postponed by a year, I think. That means from 1. 7. 2017 threatens a possible nullification of the business relationship. That means partners have enough time to learn how to make deals with business secrets and possibly black it out. It may not be comfortable for business directors to have to black out, and they may be under pressure from those who say: we want to know everything. If Martin Stropnickýý were there, he'd undoubtedly publish everything, because he's not gonna lie and he's not gonna black out. It's just to remind ourselves that restraint, discretion, secrecy has a place in politics. Not complete openness on-line discussion of everything. It just doesn't work. That's what I said. The Minister wants to close the meeting by 19 o'clock, so I'll leave further comments on the next hearing. Unless, by chance, we reject this in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u55	Thank you. A real point is made by Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, most often and quickly, laws are being amended that were never meant to come into existence. I'm not saying it's a contract register, but we've moved from 26th place to 27th place in the eGovernment area related to digitization. The cause is a lot, but one is basic, and that is the creation of the legislative spaghetti that we do here by constantly adopting unnecessary laws and then amending them. When we try to digitize this, it's not eGovernment, it's just e-spaghetti. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u57	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on this bill that I would generally support, but I was inspired by the statement and the previous speaker actually took a little wind from my sails. I'll read you something. Article 23 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the promise of a Member and a Senator is: I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to keep her Constitution and laws... and so on. That's the first sentence. And now I quote to you Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms: Everyone has the right to own property. The property rights of all owners have the same legal content and protection. There. This law is precisely that it violates the Constitution of the Czech Republic because it creates different conditions for different owners! Either we respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic as Members and Senators, or there will be nothing left but the law to abolish before the Constitutional Court for a clear violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. [[He speaks very strongly.]] Because it divides owners according to whether someone should publish and the other shouldn't publish! Please, are you really okay with the fact that where a solar baron doesn't publish anything and everyone who has public property is publishing everything? I don't care! If we continue in this way and do not allow those who are public law entities to behave in the same way as those who are under private law, then we have embezzled from our own promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u59	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jandák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a colleague of Stanjur's foreman. I didn't vote for the law. However, let me give you a message through the President and say something to the people of this country. If you sabotage this, screw up Budvar, good luck with the next election. I hope people hear that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u61	Thank you. I am now not registering any application for a general debate. I wonder if that's the case. That's right. I am ending the general debate. I appeal to the final words of the rapporteur or the appellant - whether you want to take the final word. It's not like that. Since the veto of two MPs has fallen, we cannot discuss this law at first reading. There was a motion for rejection in the first reading. I will put it to the vote as the first proposal. I'll check you all out first, register your application for your check-out. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I repeat what we will be voting on. There is a motion to reject this proposal at first reading. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 85. 147 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 83. This proposal was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't. In that case, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 86. 155 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 152, against 1. I note that this proposal has been approved and this press has been ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? Mr. Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u62	I've got a designer wheel here today. I propose, on the one hand, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as well as the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-014-124.u63	Does anyone else have another motion for a commandment to other committees? I can't see, in which case we'll vote. First of all, I am opening the vote on who the Regional Development Committee is in favour of the commandment of this press. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 87. 155 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 88, against 39. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Second draft. I am opening the vote on who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the Economic Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 88. Registered 155 Members, for proposal 117, against 20. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been approved. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Regional Development and the Economic Committee as another committee. At the same time, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline to 30 days for discussion. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline for 30 days, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 89. 153 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 87, against 51. I note that we have reduced the discussion of this press to 30 days. Given that we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made, I am ending the discussion of this point. I'm also interrupting this meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a nice rest of the day.
