ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 678/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be made by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you a proposal for a law amending the already mentioned Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, and at the same time Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees. The aim of the bill is, above all, to fulfil the commitments made in the context of international cooperation in the field of low-emission zones and to ensure full transposition of European Union regulations and, of course, not least, I dare say even more importantly, to strengthen air and human health protection against the effects of emissions from air pollution sources, in particular by adjusting the new control powers of air protection authorities, which will enable the enforcement of statutory obligations more effectively. I suppose, of course, this will be a subject that will not only be of interest to the opposition, but other colleagues will be particularly interested, so I will allow myself to stay with him for a while. In the Czech Republic, the emission limits laid down by the Law for fine dust particles in the air are constantly exceeded. These particles penetrate the respiratory tract where respiratory diseases and other diseases are stored and caused. One of the most important sources of fine dust particles is the combustion sources for solid fuels used for domestic heating. The problem is the large representation of outdated combustion plants, which are called burning and burning boilers, which account for between 70 and 80 per cent, which do not meet stricter emission parameters and allow their operators to burn waste in conflict with the law. Although the Air Protection Act contains tools to regulate emissions from combustion sources in households, such as the ban on the incineration of waste, emission parameters of sources placed newly on the market, mandatory control of the state of the source and its operation, since 2022 even the ban on the operation of resources with the worst emission parameters, without the possibility of direct control of sources operated in households, these instruments are unenforceable. It is therefore proposed to introduce an obligation for domestic combustion energy operators to allow persons certified by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope of access to resources and their accessories and used fuels to check compliance with the obligations under the Air Protection Act. The condition is that the competent air protection authority, which is the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, is repeatedly suspected that the stationary source is operated in breach of the obligations laid down by the Air Protection Act. In the event of the first suspicion of an operator's air protection authority, it shall inform the operator in writing of the suspicion of breach of its obligations and of the consequences of repeated suspicion in the form of the possibility of carrying out direct control at source. Following the second suspicion of a violation of the law, the municipal authority of the municipality will then be entitled to carry out control of the source on the basis of the law. [[15.50 hours]] Let's say so much officially and now unofficially. The Ministry of the Environment and hundreds of mayors in the Czech Republic are constantly under pressure, and the situation has taken several years since the legislature gave the option, virtually. has banned, for example, the incineration of waste and has imposed strict sanctions for it, quite correctly, but it is not quite possible to check this ban. Authorities use a measurement method from the 18th or 19th century, so that I don't exaggerate, so-called. Ringelmannův's black smoke scale. Maybe you saw it. It is based on a comparison of the darkness of the smoke train from the chimney emissions to certain scales, where the person performing the measurements must, of course, compare the darkness of the smoke with that scale, with the individual fields. And it has a few small limitations, for example, that it cannot be done in the dark, when it is often drowning enough, of course in the winter in the dark, that it cannot be done when the wind blows, and a number of other restrictions. In other words, we have, of course, spoken to a number of people who are really carrying out checks in the construction of this amendment, because, of course, a number of citizens are already turning to these municipalities today with complaints that their neighbors are bothering them with the environment, they are poisoning them with air, for example, by burning waste. Everyone knows, the whole village knows, the mayor knows, but the mayor doesn't have a legal way to prove it today. And I can really tell you the specific names of the people who are dealing with it, who have told us their experiences. I know that I will be humbled, I will be blunted here for what we are proposing, but I would really like to assure all my colleagues and colleagues that we have very well considered the possibility that, of course, is here, and this is an assessment of the constitutionality of the proposed regulation on checks on households and, therefore, a conflict of constitutional rights - on the one hand, the constitutional right to a healthy or favourable environment and, on the other hand, the right to the inviolability of private dwellings. And it's indisputable that law exists here, of course. We had a whole series of discussions with the Government's Legislative Council, we had some discussions with constitutional lawyers, and I dare say that we succeeded, and after all, the Government's Legislative Council actually without notes, or with one rather tightening up, our proposal approved that we managed to balance the conflict of two constitutional rights so as to pass the test, because the fundamental right to inviolability of dwellings is not limitless. And I may surprise you because I didn't realize it either, to not play smart, but for those who will definitely say here from their point of view that this is a precedent for breaking the inviolability of dwellings, so I would like to point out to the House that on 1 December last year, the amendment to the Public Health Act, where permission for entry into the homes of persons has been added - I stress natural persons, not legal persons or not entrepreneurs - in order to check how they comply with noise protection obligations, vibrations or non-ionizing radiation from public health authorities, e.g. regional health stations, possibly. The Ministry of Health, and this entry into the residence of a natural person, can be enforced in criminal proceedings by a fine of up to 500 thousand. Kč. This House approved this, and then there was an amendment within the Senate, because the senators argued that this could break the constitutional right to the protection of dwellings, which is only possible for the purpose of protecting life, health or property, and the Senate version of the law where the provisions in question were deleted, the Chamber of Deputies rejected and only 40 Members voted in favour of the Senate version and only 6 out of 181 Members present voted against the version of the law. So 148 Members voted in favour of this amendment. I'm saying this because it's an entirely analog situation. I even dare say that if it is possible to enter the dwelling because noise limits are being exceeded there, so if there is a reasonable suspicion that waste and carcinogen production are actually being incinerated, which, in the case of burning, for example, plastic bottles, those popular Ostrava rockets, is quite clearly occurring, it is, in my view, a significantly worse error against the environment and health. I would really like to say, in this context, that we have considered very well all the restrictions that result from this, and, among other things, from this point of view. Let me just remind you that already in 2011, the Minister, I suspect, tried to make a proposal for the Chalupa for the ODS, because there was a long-term pressure from the municipalities, especially from the Moravian-Silesian Region, so that with this situation, when the legislature gave the municipalities the opportunity to enforce something, but did not give them the absolute possibility of control of how to enforce it, so it simply grew constantly from the municipalities and regions. In 2013, the Moravian-Silesian Region attempted something similar with its legislative initiative, but unsuccessfully, because at that time the Legislative Council of the Government - in fact, even in the context of government discussions, it was said that the system did not balance the conflict of constitutional rights well. And I'm convinced we did it for the first time. Dear colleagues, it is very clear to me what will be said in the debate, but believe me, we have really considered all the pros and cons of these methods. I want to stress that no one is going to break into people's homes. Of course, no police squad in black cocoons. There is, of course, an opportunity to refuse control. Everything will be under the Control Act, and I think there is a very good way of defending against bullying by, for example, neighbors or even authorities. And yet I am convinced that it is the only one today, and therefore the ultimate option, because I firmly believe that in most cases of perverted perverts who today are poisoning life in many municipalities, the only thing that will be enshrined in the law is that it will discourage them from doing so and will not have to be controlled. Because believe me, it is not our plezier to give access to households, but it is really an extreme means, and I think that the extreme means will happen in absolutely extraordinary cases, because there will have to be other certain possibilities. We are thus reaching out to hundreds, and I dare say to thousands of people today who are in vain to point out that neighbors are poisoning their environment, and they cannot resist it. I'm sorry I've been staying a little longer at this point. I'm sure we can continue to discuss this in the course of the discussion. Of course, we also considered the possibility of other technical solutions. I'm sure there'll be a possibility of using drones, etc., I don't want to hold it up right now. I'll respond to any questions I may have. As part of this law or this amendment, there is also mutual recognition of the system of low-emission zones, where, following several years of bilateral negotiations between Germany and the Czech Republic, it is proposed to supplement the provision according to which there would be no announcement in low-emission zones in the Czech Republic, but thus no recognition of emissions plaques issued in countries where the setting of low-emission zones is similar to that in the Czech Republic, especially Germany. Furthermore, the emission limit for dust microparticles from 25 microns to 20 microns is anchored, where the emission limit for health protection in point one of Annex number one to the Law is proposed to change from 25 micrograms per metre to 20 micrograms per metre. However, the effectiveness of this amendment point is proposed as of 1 January 2020, from which this emission limit under Directive 2008/50/EC is binding on the Member States. There is also a change in the legal form of setting up low-emission zones from a generally binding decree to a measure of a general nature, and there is also a block of other substantive and legislative technical adaptations that I do not want to mention now. [[16.00 hours]] Finally, my introductory words: Dear colleagues, although I am clear about what comments will be, I suppose, especially on the possibility of home controls. But I want to assure you that we have worked on this for many months and have dealt with dozens of experts so that the system is not exploitable, that it doesn't go anywhere we don't want to go, and that it really does what it has to do. That it should end with those who break the law and on whom the arm of the law cannot fall today, because it is not possible in any way to gather evidence against them, and on the other hand not to mean bullying decent people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Every time an amendment to the Air Act is made to the House, it is closely monitored because this issue is one of the key issues in our society. I'll follow up on the minister. I will try to be more brief and a little summorized of what the proposed amendment relates to. From my point of view, there are four basic points, although on the media level, this amendment has only been reduced to controversial or seemingly controversial domestic controls, but we will get to that. There are four basic circles of change. The first concerns the already mentioned low-emission zones, where the proposed regulation addresses the mutual recognition of plaques with neighbouring countries, such as Germany. I think it's a good idea. The second set of adjustments concerns the already mentioned local heating sites, where it gives room for air protection authorities so that, in the event of a suspicion of misdemeanor activity, they can carry out an inspection of the furnace for natural persons after some warning. The third series of amendments concerns tightening the limits for fine dust particles TM 2.5, where tightening is anchored in the Annex to this Act. Since 2020, the limit of 25 micrograms per m3 to 20 micrograms per m3 has been tightened. I'm just pointing out that the dust is one of the main agents of smog situations, and it's certainly right that this tightening up is happening. After all, it is also a requirement of the European Directive 2008/50/EC, which has already been mentioned here. The fourth larger range of changes concerns the announcement of smog situations, where practice shows that announcements in particular places are inflexible and often the smog situation is in full swing because the announcement is based on 24 hour diameters of dust particles and this is not completely flexible. So there's a change that takes into account twelve-hour averages, and there's also a prediction of weather and concentration developments. Again, I think it's a move for the better. In addition, this regulation also concerns the possibility for authorities which order regulation during smog situations where specific sources take into account the possibility that certain individual assessments are possible for this source, if it is in the best available technology mode. It concerns paragraph 10 of the Air Protection Act. In addition to these four basic large circuits, major changes, there are a number of minor changes to the legislative technical nature. Perhaps I would point out a change in the authorisation to verify greenhouse gas emissions, which was originally imposed by Law No. 383/2012 Coll., and where authorisation is no longer required today, only accreditation is sufficient. Therefore, the amendment of the Air Protection Act, which also mentions this area, is necessary and there is a need to align compliance. Another minor adjustment is the revision of Annex 2, which appoints stationary resources with which the law continues to operate. Then there are 7 or 8 more minor modifications, which are legislatively technical. I'd say so much for the introduction. I have yet to enter into a general debate, not as rapporteur, but as a Member, so that I do not abuse my position as rapporteur, and I will address the very practical issue of home controls. For the moment, it's all on my side, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Zahradník first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to this draft air protection law, which has an EU frontboard on our board, which means that it is a law to implement European Union standards. So it is one of the laws that the European Union seems to require of us under some sanctions. However, the substance of why we are here, why the Minister and the rapporteur have been acting for so long are the two most important parts of this law. It is, on the one hand, the announcement of low-emission zones in our municipalities and places, and then it is also the introduction of the possibility of controlling the heating sites and entering citizens' dwellings, directly by the provision of a special law. First, ladies and gentlemen, I would allow myself to comment on the low-emission zones. There, in my opinion, it is not only about introducing and adapting our legal environment to those certificates, emission plaques acquired by car owners abroad and which we want to make applicable to our municipalities, but also about the fact that we are once again introducing for our municipalities and cities the possibility of their advice, i.e. to the board of municipalities in charge of delegation, to declare low-emission zones. This means zones which will be prohibited from entering certain types of cars which do not comply with the standards laid down for motor vehicles by their emissions by mostly the European Union. This possibility to announce a low-emission zone already exists in our legal environment and the municipality has that option. It must be said that no such low-emission zone has yet been declared. I think Prague was planning this for 2017, but since most of the city's parts were opposed, the announcement has not yet been made. The fact that the zones have not yet been declared has its origin in that it is not possible to find a detour that would allow people with their vehicles to get to the location without having to enter the zone and thereby violate the ban on their vehicles. The fact that our citizens do not all have state-of-the-art vehicles is known. The age of our vehicles is over 14 years, and despite all the measures that governments and the Union are trying to do here, this is not improving. We well know what led to the European Union's strong efforts to improve and to improve and improve vehicles in an effort to achieve as little as possible. Finally, the standards, the strict standards, were so strict that they just weren't feasible and they started to go around, which is what many car companies are doing today, and they even went by the name of dieselgate. [[16.10 hours]] So we're trying to be strict here, too, to be super strict. I even read somewhere that the Minister is going to increase the environmental tax in this fight, the environmental tax. It turns out these things don't have the purpose, they don't meet the objective of why they're being declared. It might as well be with those low-emission zones. I would also like to draw attention to one more thing, namely the way in which these low-emission zones can be declared in our cities and municipalities. The Delegated Council will do so by means of a so-called general measure. I understand that there is a special effort here, i.e. limiting the entry of vehicles in a given characteristic to a special place, i.e. to some part of the community defined in that measure of a general nature, simply by an enumeration, for an indeterminate circle of inhabitants, which it can touch. But on the other hand, I have already pointed out here, when discussing the amendment to Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, that measures of a general nature in this respect are not the most appropriate instrument. That the village can enter into this indeterminate number of different opponents and can prevent them from doing so. Maybe I'm a little conflicted right now. I hope I'm understood. I'm here to criticise the announcement of low-emission zones, further restrictions on freedom for the purpose of the sacred reduction of air pollution. There's just a large number of people here in our country who can't afford an expensive, car-compliant standard, and they just have to use their car, even if it doesn't meet those standards. The fact that you will eventually increase the environmental tax, which will probably also happen because you will increase the time until these cars continue to run. So these are the low-emission zones. Now I would look at the second thing and that is Section 17 and its rebuilt, redesigned paragraph 2, which now introduces the right of the supervisory authority to enter the residence of a citizen. This, of course, violates the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms establishing the integrity of dwellings, the right to privacy. Of course, there is an exception in the Charter to allow entry into dwellings in order to protect health. That's a conflict. It is known that constitutional lawyers are not entirely sure of their views here, but the truth is that the integrity of dwellings is one of the fundamental freedoms that you are now trying to break with this provision. The question is, why is this happening? Why people release smoke from the chimneys of their dwellings, which pollutes the air, annoys their neighbors, increases the concentration of harmful substances in the air, and thus causes criticism for the homeowners. I don't know, maybe someone has a modern boiler, a good boiler, a good fuel, but they can't flood. When it's flooded, he smokes quite a lot from the chimney. And neither will the Minister. That's what this guy's gonna have to learn. But then it can happen that you have a good boiler, they think you have a good fuel. He bought from his coal supplier, who is convinced by the supplier that he is of good quality, but that, as we know, is not good quality. A number of cases occur when people buy coal in the belief that they buy a quality class of coal, and it is not quality coal. Then, of course, it may be a major smoke in its surroundings. And then, of course, they're people who don't have the resources to get a good way of heating - gas, electricity, some of those highly sophisticated smart organic boilers burning different alternative fuels, for example, or including that quality coal, and then there's a lot of help. I am so worried that these people are targeted by the law maker and think that by their measure in Section 17 paragraph. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Unfortunately, I don't think he's going to succeed in simply allowing people who burn different Ostrava rockets or bugs left over from coal or other plastics and other waste to be intimidated and convinced. I'm bohužel not. What will such a check do, which, after all possible prior warnings, will come to the house and pound and demand entry, and will not be open to it? Well, he'll write a fine that, according to my previous information, could reach CZK 50,000. Will the fine be enforceable, or will it increase the number of people, the number of people to whom various kinds of executions are imposed? And when the control body finally entered the house, it was able to enter, it would again argue with those people who were actually drowning, whether the swab taken from the chimney vent was proven or not, etc. The question is, therefore, whether a certain intimidating effect, which the petitioner apparently promises from the law, will be achieved. In his opening words, the minister said that the control itself would be extremely exceptional, that it would be something that would not actually happen. Then I don't understand if he wants to put it into the law. This is the law - it is not a law, it is not a criminal code which he certainly has, and we know it well, in his provision the right for police equipped with a court order to enter the house, and even possibly arrange for violence even to enter the house if this entry is denied. Here it is completely different in the law, in the Act on Air Protection: it will allow us to enter a foreign house. Ladies and gentlemen, I've studied this in detail, and I've been talking about it for a long time. I think it might be more appropriate here than to try to convince us to support this proposal to scare the maximum number of people away from burning illegal waste for the minimum resources spent, that the Minister should rather try to follow the path, which he also indicated a little, which he therefore called the 19th century journey. He was talking about Ringelmannův's rehearsal. I think, Minister, maybe we should really go down that path of uncontact proof of homeowners' misconduct when burning in their boilers of unauthorised waste. Just try to find a way to make it possible. On the one hand, we recently passed a law that will prove that someone paid some amount to a trader at a given time, in a given place, it will be clear, it will all be sent to one center via the Internet. It would also be possible at a given time, in a given place to document it with a time frame, such as GPS data, which could locate the site, to take a smoke sample that comes from the chimney, for example through the drone you mentioned here and whose development takes as all these modern methods by miles. I would suggest that we deal with this way. For the Ministry to check whether it is possible to follow the path of non-contact proof of violations of the previous paragraphs in the law. In fact, he is the subject of Article 17 (1) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 which lists the errors, which are then referred to by the plaintiff of the law. [[16.20 hours]] Where any of the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 are violated: 1 which, however, cannot be demonstrated, can be checked. We can promise ourselves a hundred times that these controls will be the last step in the process of trying to prevent a person from burning illegal waste. In the end, however, it may become a rule that controls, whether justified or bullying, will be on the order of the day, that the environmental control authorities or bodies designated by the municipalities will find popularity in controlling people - it is not so difficult, from history we know the cases where it is very popular with those control authorities, especially those controlled by them, so less - and they will carry out bulwark checks and enter the houses, referring to our law. That is why I would like to warn the House about this law. I would like to ask the House to support my proposal, which I am proposing to reject this law at first reading, and to give the Minister the chance for his ministry, the hundreds of experts that he has there, to test the other way, or to consider whether it is not possible to leave the control on some human agreement that may be possible, even though the Minister mentioned the very supernegative cases, when the agreement simply cannot be reached and when the individual concerned does not respond to the neighbourly arrangements in the pub or the informal address of the mayor on the street when they meet, and simply keeps doing what he does. To place his name, address on some sort of tab, not to be honored in a pub or in a local store simply cannot, this is hindered by the law on personality protection of course. We are very consistent here, and on the contrary, we protect these people very consistently. On the other hand, we'll be breaking into their homes. The reason why I propose rejection is not that I would not want to protect all the residents of Moravian-Silesian and other regions where this is taking place from the negative effects of their unworthy, unseemly neighbours. But I just don't think it's gonna have any effect. That the only effect we can expect from this may be the deterrent effect. The fact that these people might be scared. But they're gonna be scared for a while, but then they're gonna get tough, and if we don't start doing these checks in mass, that's just not gonna be the point. At the same time, however, mass checks lead to even more massive and even those who are actually innocent in doing so will be affected. My proposal is that I propose rejection at first reading. I already have such an experience from my previous proposals that it is common for this proposal to be submitted by a member of the government coalition, which is, in the case of the Minister, and he is, I would say, a firm article by the government coalition, that there will be no rejection, so I would like to continue to propose as a second proposal in the order of returning the bill to the petitioner for revision, which I think is also possible at first reading, Minister. I guess so. Well, if my proposal didn't pass, which I fear, but I hope most of the House will find in this regard the will to support it if it didn't happen, then I would try to propose at first reading which committees this proposal should be given for discussion, which I will do on the spot when it comes to that. At this point, I hope I said everything I wanted to say. If there is a debate and the Minister will, of course, respond, then I will allow myself, if necessary, to continue in the debate or to react in the form of a substantive remark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u7	I thank Mr Zahradník. I'm registering his motion to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u8	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister was probably right to predict that the biggest discussion would be around § 17 para. 2, so I'm not going to be the exception, and I'm going to say my opinion, which is probably going to coincide with Mr. Zahradník's opinion this time. However, when we look at it, the Minister said so, after all, we actually have two constitutional freedoms against each other, both home freedom or, rightly speaking, the inviolability of dwellings, and against that is the freedom, the right to a favourable environment. However, the question now is as if to say and determine what is worth more to us and what is more important to us. I think what we're going to say about this is, it's complicated that if we break through here, it's more or less irreversible, it's a yes or no decision. Whereas when we look at the right to a favourable environment, we still have a wide range of options and measures to achieve this favorable environment without having to limit people to other rights and other freedoms. Of course, the moment we break home freedom, then we can ask ourselves what comes next, for what other reasons these officials will come to our house to control things. Whether it's next time, if we're sorting the waste well or if we don't use water from the city tap to water the garden, etc. And of course, we would have found a whole series of examples, and now the question is, do we want this and do we really want this here? That's one thing. However, I do not think that the second thing has yet to be said here, namely that, from my point of view, this measure quite means increased administration, bureaucracy. If I understand the proposal correctly, then first there must be some incentive for the third-degree community, which will invite polluters to document the relevant documents, I don't know what they're drowning and what boiler they're in, and so on. And that alone, in my opinion, is a lot of increased administration and bureaucracy. Another thing, when I looked into the explanatory note, when I was reading it, of course, to find out if there's really something wrong burning in those boilers, the best way we're gonna figure out is if we're gonna do an analysis. And, of course, it's not free. There will also be quite a lot of increased financial demands for budgets, and I have not quite seen the quantification in the explanatory report. I found it a lot in my estimates, and I don't think the numbers were entirely accurate. That's the other two things I don't like about the proposal. In order not to just talk here and say some of my feelings, I did, I would say, a small survey, I approached a few dozen mayors in our region in Pardubice, where I asked them how they perceived this problem and if it really is that people burn in boilers what should not be, if it is really a widespread phenomenon, if it really is a plague, or if there are only some isolated cases. I have received several answers, of course not all answered, and it is true that most, though such, I would say, mild majority of the mayors who answered me are not for this proposal. On the one hand, they say that there are really isolated cases in their communities, that most of them are just a few individuals who burn something in their villages that shouldn't be burned there. They also point out that when it happens, it is quite often enough for individuals who are, I would say, socially weaker or simply do not have much money. [[16.30 hours]] And then they're wondering what we're gonna take on these people if we're gonna ask them for the ticket. They won't be able to pay for it anyway, so what the result will be, what good will it do us if we don't take anything on these people anyway. Of course, the mayors of these small villages are logically concerned that this mechanism will be able to be abused in such neighborly disputes, and it will only lead to a slightly worse atmosphere in the villages. As I was saying, they also see some increase in bureaucracy, although it is true that it will not be the small villages that touch it, but only the oerpéčkých ones. At the same time, the mayors presented some kind of correction that they would see helping the condition. It's some kind of more communication, awareness, personal dealings with these people, I'm sure things like pot subsidies that they think should definitely be continued are helping. I'm just here to print out two brief answers from the mayors or vice-mayors to see how they feel about it, what it often sounds like, two representative samples. So here the Vice Mayor of Bystré wrote to me that - I quote: "The problem with waste burning occurs in our city in units of cases and it is still the same household. Nevertheless, I am not sure whether the possibility of officials to carry out checks in households will contribute to solving the problem. Those who today burn waste do this mostly for economic reasons, and any sanctions have no impact on them. If you don't have anything, the fines don't bother you. In my opinion, the possibility of controlling domestic officials will only lead to the addition of an additional tool to deal with neighbourly disputes. I am therefore not in favour of introducing this possibility into the law." So it was one opinion of a deputy mayor. Then the mayor of one small village, there it is a little bit more bitter: "It is a problem for us, but it is true that it was worse before. Burning something that doesn't belong in the boiler certainly doesn't happen in the daylight, but in the evening after dark, things happen in some boilers! It's a couple of toasters again. It's far from true of everyone. I believe that control from the ORP is completely useless. In the future, Drudil will easily obtain proof of his boiler and fuel control, and if he pours his oil into coal after leaving, he can have a boiler of class 5 and pollutes it as Semtín, and if he gets dusted by a neighbor, otherwise it won't be, then the bureaucrat will draw proof of control, then the neighbor will call him a whistleblower, and he will poison his dog in return. Then there's gonna be a group of socially weaker people who want a quality boiler, and I'm not talking about quality fuel, it just won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't, it won't. Boiler subsidies don't mean anything to them, they just don't have the financial, informational, technical, and worse, many even mentally. Personally, I think that the best solution would be thorough education, e.g. as it is in the collection and sorting of waste. Something like, "Turn so we can't even feel you." So these were some of the opinions I picked up in the field. To conclude, I would not be as radical as my fellow Member Zahradník, and I would not suggest rejecting or returning to the first reading, there are, of course, other things in the amendment, but I think that we should have a lot of fun here in the committees and wonder if there really are no other options, let's say it's some kind of enlightenment, whether it's things like boiler subsidies, new technologies, etc., and if this extreme solution really cannot be prevented. So I'd like us to try to find this in some way and really not have to touch on that extreme solution. Everything on my side, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u9	I thank Mr Junek. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u10	Thank you for the floor. Let me make it clear that at this point, I am not speaking as a rapporteur to the press, but as an ordinary Member. As could be expected, the debate only shrunk to § 17, domestic control, domestic heating sites. I may have a bit of an advantage in this regard, because my last job before joining the Chamber of Deputies was professional air protection, because I was working at the Regional Authority just in the Air Protection Department as a leader. In addition, of course, I have also been through the extended community, where many colleagues have just dealt with air protection, so I can or I know the direct effects, the practice as it is, and I want to sort of introduce you to that, and I want to give you my knowledge. First of all, the problem is not about normal combustion. A fellow Zahradník here said that someone can buy a good boiler and get a bad batch of coal, and suddenly it spills out. Of course, there may be different combustion quality, different input quality, but I don't think that's the problem with this measure. The mayors have been mentioned here. I can assure you that the first people at that office in that community with extended authority were those who cried, who were the mayors who swore to us to do something about it, so that we could finally hit those notorious firemen in some way, that they just didn't know what to do with them. So they're the first ones to come and ask for help at the Air Protection Authority. As far as the scale is concerned, as has already been said here, and so has my previous speaker, Mr Junek, who is not a mass or a major problem. I can say that in such a common district of municipalities with extended scope, let's say the extent of 50 municipalities, this concerns two or three cases. So it's not like it's tens or hundreds of people. They're more of an exception. It is also a myth that they are only socially weak citizens. On the contrary, I've noticed cases where they were businessmen who used it to get rid of all kinds of business waste and annoy the neighbors. So it's probably a myth. What's with the housekeeping? Is it a violation of freedom, or isn't it? Let's see what we can do today. When you get a gas meter check or an electrical appliance check, you let them go to the place where they need it. Or if you have a gas appliance with a problem. I think the possibility of entry concerns only the place where it's a hotbed, which means the clerk won't be going through your whole apartment, snooping around or looking for something. I don't want to say perpetrator, but a stoker or a firecracker is drowning. Plus, it's not like someone came in and kicked your door in. There is, of course, a process. As I looked at the proposal, the complaint will be recorded there first, the official concerned must investigate. That means there has to be some evidence, for example. photography, testimony, and if it is confirmed, it will only invite the lawbreaker concerned to make amends, and only if the law has been broken repeatedly can he request access to the furnace. So it's not like anybody just happened to come in, insult you right there at the entrance, get in there and check something out for you without your knowledge. So please, let's not demonize the problem, it's not gonna be that big a change. And the really problematic people who are so annoying about their surroundings are a few, not some big crowds. As far as technical solutions are concerned, of course I have noticed various proposals such as drones etc. The problem is, when the stick is doing its job, it usually does, when it's suspected they know about it, maybe it burns at night. How do you know it's hot right now? You guys just need to take a sample out of that furnace to find out exactly what he was burning in there. Then there are optical methods, photos. Okay, you take a picture, he tells you-- it just blew out of me, I blew up the furnace, I just blew up the black smoke, that's not usual. Then, of course, there's the so-called one. Ringelmannův's dark smoke table already mentioned. It's an optical method minimally effective. Ask any reporter about an office that deals with air protection, so he tells you - it's basically useless. The proposed change is actually a possibility, such a last emergency brake, how to actually hit those notorious firemen who are basically laughing at everyone. They mock the neighbors, mock the authorities, and basically they're invincible. It burns trash. Personally, I don't think I see any other choice. Of course, it shouldn't be a rule. It shouldn't be a rule that they're just gonna be checking in. But as I said before, there has to be some justification, there has to be some cause, some consequence, some violation of the law, which, of course, falls into the office. [[16.40 hours]] The burden of bureaucracy or some increase in bureaucracy has been mentioned here. Yeah, I'm sure there's gonna be a little bit of an increase in activity. But like I said, it's not a lot of cases, it's an individual order. That means, I think that every office will find a certain window or a certain space for it to carry out this activity. I don't know how much it takes to process a complaint. I don't think it's that much of a burden that would lead to some heavy burden on the authorities. On the contrary, I think that a number of officials and a number of authorities will welcome this, that they will have the opportunity to be affected by the so-called notorious firemen. So here I said my point of view from the position of the person who worked in this area. I hope you'll take that into account, and I hope we don't spread any unnecessary myths here. To some extent I understand the concerns of, for example, my fellow Zahradník, it is also unacceptable for me to be unnecessarily disturbed by freedom. And, of course, if there's no cause, that freedom, that house freedom will not be violated. There really must be some repeated violations. If someone commits a crime to you, we're not gonna ask for personal freedom, and we're gonna be affected. It certainly shouldn't become a rule, and it certainly shouldn't be a whip or it shouldn't be the result of some personal revenge. And let me say again, there's this procedure that these cases, if there's any personal vendetta, would have to be some kind of neighborhood feud that should just rule these cases out. Of course, it depends on the subjective assessment of the particular official. But I firmly believe that most of these so-called neighborhood disputes will be sorted out, and if this amendment passes, only those offenders, those who burn the garbage, those who poison the air around and that it will not be abused. Thank you for listening. This is my personal view and take it into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u11	Thank you. Mr Josef Šenfeld is now registered with the factual remark. No, someone leaned on his button. Please, Mr. Okleštěk, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only use your help to my colleague Zahradník - when reading the law or the bill, we will learn everything that fellow Zemek has interpreted here. So maybe before that fear, it would just take a little bit deeper to begin with, and then we'll find that there's no major violation of rights or freedoms or home freedoms, and that there's some room before some supervisory authority even enters that household.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u13	With another factual remark by Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Have a good afternoon. At the beginning, the Minister asked us to ask questions about him. We are here discussing an amendment to the Act on Air Protection and I visited the town of Mimoň during my travels around the Liberec Region, where the mayor complained that the protection of citizens against smells - they have pigs and rendering facilities near the city and the smell is somewhat annoying there, especially last year when it was such a hot summer. The methodology is issued on the one hand, but the mayor has put it on my heart to ask you, Minister, what are they like in this law - whether the implementing rules are already established for the mayor to have some competence to protect citizens against the smells. So if on the one hand you actually want to go to your homes and control the heaters, how are we going to protect the citizens against these unpleasant smells? So please, when you answer, I'd like to know the answer to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Mr Václav Zemek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u16	Thank you. It's kind of my thing again. Trouble with the smells, the smells, the particles, it has nothing to do with air protection. It's more of a hygiene issue. It's always a problem here, because, of course, the smell is subjective. Of course there are different operations. I'll give you an example. Maybe there's a distillery here on Smíchov (?), and when you walk by, it smells like baked potatoes. It just stinks to somebody, doesn't smell to somebody. But, of course, there are types of operations, such as rendering machines or waste treatment that stink, but it's more a matter of hygiene than air protection. Because the Air Protection Act affects certain substances, emissions of certain substances, but the scent ones, it is subjective and even in the assessment it is called hygiene. So it's a little out of the law that we're judging here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u17	That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Herbert Pavera is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u18	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Minister. Allow me just a few responses to the current amendment to the Air Protection Act. You probably know that I'm from the Moravian-Silesian region of Hlučín region, which is located near Ostrava, and here we talk about Ostrava's rockets. I don't know if you even know what it is, so I'll explain it to you, although I don't know if it's the kind of thing that belongs only in Ostrava, I think I've heard that it should be in other regions. Ostrava rocket, they say it's a plastic bottle filled with sawdust soaked in oil. I've never met it in my neighborhood. I know there's been talk of it as a concept that has been heard here several times today. But personally, I think a lot of people haven't burned things like that in the cauldron in a long time, and I'm gonna get to that why. As far as the incineration of inappropriate substances is concerned, of course, it's still happening. Of course, a man who has an old boiler burns in his boilers sometimes fuels that don't belong in that boiler. It's also about old clothes, old shoes, when the older citizen thinks they're gonna burn it down, at least it'll warm up. But I think there's a lot of work to be done here on all of us who work in self-government and elsewhere, so that we can make sure that this doesn't happen in the future. I think that here I see the main contribution of self-government, regions and the Ministry of the Environment, that they should do the kind of education that would really teach people how to properly drown, what to burn, and so on. As far as I'm concerned, but I'm gonna get to that, too. It was also said here that thanks to the new law, officials from the municipalities should be allowed to visit and control local heating sites. It exists today, if you don't know. Already today it is possible to ask the environmental department of the municipality with extended scope to carry out checks in a certain family home, but it comes up with one thing. The clerk will write a letter to the person, of course, the man will not open it, so it is completely unnecessary. In developed countries, people do not allow themselves to drown completely by what they must not. And if that were to happen, they would, of course, be fined. The way it's done is there's no clerk to check in, but there's a chimney sweeper or a review technician that revises the boiler or revises the chimney. Because each of us has a duty to review the chimney, to do re-examinations of the boilers. I think that would be a good way to not disturb the privacy of citizens and not send any civil servants in, but to do it really so as to do it when someone's already going to check into those households on the chimney and on the boiler. I think that would probably be more acceptable than anything else. And as I said before, prevention is more important. Maybe we've been sorting waste in our village since the early 1990s. I know that some five years ago some big promotional campaign started here in Prague "Let's waste" so I had to smile that they came up with a cross after a funeral when it's been sorted out in towns and small towns since the beginning of the 1990s. [[16.50 hours]] I can certainly say from my own experience, we regularly do what two years of measuring air purity. We are a community with 4,400 inhabitants, yet we are willing to pay over 20,000 for one measure to know what our citizens are breathing. I just got my last readings yesterday, and I have to say, we've done a huge job, even though it's still not what we want, but maybe we've reduced the dust by 100 percent. We had an excess of about 100 units of dust, only 50 should be correct. We're under 50 units today. So I think we have chosen the right path when we have organized a series of discussions and lectures on how to properly drown people over the last 15 years. We also had a demonstration from the Mining College - a smokeman who came and showed people what was created in bad combustion and what was going into the air. I think it's quite impressed people, too. Of course, we have also issued a decree banning certain fuels. Even though we don't do any checks, I think the education that went to people, that it hurts people's health, has worked for the vast majority of people. And the smoke that comes often from those old boilers goes mainly because when the boiler is cold, so when it's sinking, and before the chimney warms up, of course, there's black smoke at first. We're fighting this awfully, too. We want to make it better all the time. But if we don't go down the road of education, of course we won't have the atmosphere we want. Also, there's been a boiler grant here. They'll bring some success. I'm sure you do. But I don't think for people who are burning inappropriate waste in a stove right now. My colleagues have already said that, and I'm sure my colleagues will say that, and they know that it is mostly people who are socially weak or those who have been used to such things in the past. I was particularly talking about older people who still follow their traditions. I don't think they're really going to get to the socially weak at all. Personally, I would have handled it differently, but that's for another gig. I think that we should really consider whether we should really address the entry into the control of local heating sites through the officials of municipalities with extended scope. Personally, I don't recommend it. I think it's the wrong thing to do. And I believe that, thanks to some discussion here, we will find another better solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u19	Thank you, Mr Paver. Now I have four factual points. First of all, Mr Petr Kudela, then Mr Josef Hájek, then Mr Igor Jakubčík, then Mr Jan Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Paver very much for his speech, especially for his opposition to the concept of Ostrava rocket, or whatever it is called. Please, I've never seen this before. I've heard about it so many times. If you see someone drowning it, I'd like to see how efficient it is, how much work it takes to fill it, how many bottles of PET to drown it one day, and so on. So, thank you to my colleague Paver for resisting the media, let's say, nonsense. But what I want to say is, this education thing is very important, because thanks to the boiler subsidies, a huge piece of work has been done on the villagers, it is really obvious. So thanks to my colleague Paver.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u21	I thank Mr Kudel. With another factual remark, Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. I'm the rocket, we used to call it Kalouskův's briquette, but whatever, I saw her, but that's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted more or less to follow up on the words of my colleague Zemek here because it is very good or useful if one can project the bill from some of his own experience. And my own experience in this issue is that when I became a Member, the first case I dealt with was a married couple, retired people who came to me asking me to help find a solution to their neighbor, who terrorizes them with smoke, that means he deliberately burned their tires there, just undefined some fuel, just totally destroying them, and I couldn't help them even though I was involved, I was on the Environment Department of Havířov City, I just wasn't able to help. And now there's a certain tool that can help solve this. I'm not saying it's 100%, but at this point, I might be able to help or advise those citizens who came to me. Another thing that concerns, I also agree with my colleagues, is the question of allowing people to sort, that is, really, to a small village, starting with a small village, a housing estate, to put containers for separated waste, so that people can put plastics where they belong. And the real advantage is that the kids are learning, like, or maybe also here, when you were that young age, we were competitive, I kept drying up the healing herbs, the slides, the swimmers, I had to pick up the deaf with these hands, like you can imagine what it was. [[shows his hands]] But we competed. And if I didn't have that five-pound bottle of field watershed at home, I was embarrassed in class. So I'll be happy to get this into our kids and the kids will compete to collect plastic bottles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u23	I thank Mr Hájek for his contribution. Another duly registered, i.e. another with a factual point, is Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u24	Thank you. A really factual point on Mr Paver through Mr President. If we lower the amount of dust by 100 percent, we lower it to zero. So I think it's 50, 60, so be it. 100 percent, I don't think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u25	I thank Mr Jakubčík for his point of view. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u26	First, I respond to my colleague - it's not 100 per cent to zero. We had 100 units, that's measuring in units, the amount of dust in the air, and we reduced it to 50 units, that means we had it twice as much, that means 100% is 50 units, 200 percent is 100 units. Just to explain mathematically. Otherwise, I would like to say to the Minister - the current law on air protection, so he commands in fact to each of us who has a family house or who has a boiler, that he must have a review of the boiler after 2017. I'm just gonna point out that he's already here, so it's all worth taking advantage of. And what did I forget? There is one more thing we have done even in the entire region of Hlučín. In 31 municipalities and cities, last autumn, we did three months of training or discussions for citizens, for children, how to properly sort, how to drown and what it will bring to the Air Protection Act, that citizens have an obligation to have a review of boilers after 2017, and that after 2022 only boilers can have efficiency, I think there is a standard number 4 to 5 after 2022. So much to add to the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u27	Thank you, Mr Paver. With another factual remark, Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u28	Thank you. I would respond to Mr Pavera's colleague, and I would like to ask the Minister what other mechanisms the Ministry of Environment considered which could be used for the control in the apartments. He mentioned the chimney sweeps here, and we know that today it's an obligation to carry out an annual review of the chimney every year, that is, if the community suspects, or someone suspects that a neighbor or someone is burning some bad garbage, then actually a chimney sweeper could swab it without having to enter the boiler house. [[17,00 hours]] I understand, of course, that not all citizens may regularly review the chimney, but there are certainly some sanctions for those people who don't do them. And the revision must probably be registered somewhere. That means if we don't choose another mechanism through chimney sweeps and inspections so that we don't have to climb people's homes to go over the roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u29	Thank you, Mr Vách, that was the last point in fact so far. Mr Kolovratník now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u30	Good afternoon, thank you. Now, I was rushing to the microphone after I patiently waited for the actual notes. I want to support the Minister's proposal clearly, my colleague and colleagues, and it gives me logic. And please hear my arguments, which I will now make in the debate. I particularly want to respond to Mr Junek's dear colleague from the Pardubice Region, whom I very much appreciate and we discuss a number of things in the same opinion. So I was thinking, when there was an argument of breaking, the optics of breaking home freedom, that in quotes revolutionary breaking, so maybe we could look at it from the other side. I myself live in the eastern part of Pardubice in family houses, so sometimes the microclimatic conditions are what they are, and the smoke from some heating plants and garages just leaves. Exactly what's already been described in this debate. And then I think, isn't this also breaking my personal freedom that I have to breathe into my house, into my windows, into my sons' room? I think so. So I will definitely support this proposal, and I want to say that I consider myself a liberal, right-wing person for whom this personal freedom, individual freedom and privacy really is sacred and is the most. But unfortunately, those cases, I'll probably repeat these arguments now, when one pollutes the air and spends life, literally and to the letter, i.e. spoils the living conditions, endangers health to dozens, maybe hundreds of its neighbors, there are a lot of them. If you've looked into the details of the proposal or at least read the articles in the paper, I'll probably repeat it again, the arguments, the insurance is large. It will not be that officials, some commando suddenly slams someone into his home, but it will prevent it quite large, as I understand, in quotation marks large official machinery, call, letter, communication, warning, etc. Indeed, the personal visit, I understand, is actually the ultimate argument. It is often said in politics, today it has also been said here that it is also about symbols. I and this proposal, if it succeeds and passes through the House, I see it as a very strong symbol. It's a symbol, it's some kind of effect on psychology, and even if this symbol, when it never happens, the visit, the last moment, but if it's a symbol of maybe dozens, maybe hundreds of people are discouraged from putting what they're giving in the heating plants today, it'll make sense to me. I think it's gonna be the right move. So I wanted to say so much in support of the Minister and his intention. And I believe that I can at least convince some of you for that future support. For me, it certainly is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u31	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u32	Thank you. I just want to point out that there is a slight contradiction here, because Mr Kolovratník's fellow Member says how many people who burn waste, and I don't know what everything is, and on the other hand, Mr Zemek here said that these are actually isolated cases. He talked about itORP and he said, "This is going to be about, I don't know, two or three complaints about the whole area." So what's it like, then? Is it a phenomenon that is really very widespread, or is it quite unique? Here we have some contradiction, and I think it is necessary that the law was being prepared, that maybe we should have had some deeper analysis, how it really works in these villages, and how it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u33	Thank you, Mr Junek. The last so far duly registered is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u34	Mr Vice-President, I finally signed up for a proper discussion paper so that I wouldn't be tied up with those short minutes. First, I'll pick up my colleague Kolovratník. Indeed, this will be the case, and for me it will also be such an important event if this law is subsequently passed. It will also be a symbol of the fact that, out of two public interests, which, in fact, we are not able to decide exactly which one is more significant, we will decide that one is more important and we will impose it directly into the law. At the same time, I will also mention what my colleague Okleštěk said. The proposal isn't quite clear. The provisions of Article 17 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 17 thereof, shall apply. 3, he's actually talking a If there is a repeated reasonable suspicion that the operator continues to violate one of the obligations, the controller shall be entitled to enter his home. Repeatedly, repeatedly, constantly. Who will determine the number of repetitions, the number of recurrences, when the pollution actually occurred? So it's really a big deal. And then we can actually put a policy into every law that we set out that some supervisory authority should have the right to control its fulfilment directly through direct entry into the apartment, into a house which, under this law, will be able to extort, demand, enforce. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Then there was a mention of the cauldron subsidies. It may be one of the ways that could improve the situation. They are not entirely available for the lowest income groups, that is true, but it is true that today the State Environmental Fund is contributing relatively substantial money to the exchange of boilers, and it is becoming something that may be quite accessible. Although there is one obstacle that I must mention. Some of the boilers listed on the State Environmental Fund website do not meet the strict conditions. Certificates of these may not be prepared by an independent certified body, but may be displayed directly by the manufacturer of those boilers. And the boilers were found on the list that did not meet the strict European standards. My colleague Pavera mentioned a path that in some perhaps more disciplined society could lead to the goal. It's through chimney sweeps. That's what I think they're talking about in Germany, where the guild is cominical. It has the right not only to carry out maintenance, but also to control chimneys and, in fact, to report any offences against the correct combustion procedure and subsequently to mediate the penalty. This is the way that the Minister, I think, has dealt with only by mentioning it among those opinions, how the problem is dealt with abroad, in the European Union. [[17.10 hours]] At the very end of my speech, I would like to say, as if a bit sublime, and I think Mr. Václav Zemek has kind of said so. It's kind of a saying that you should freeze when you say it. For whoever does the right thing doesn't have to worry about anything. That's the Calvinian saying that when he ordered citizens not to have curtains in houses, who do not commit sin, who have a clear conscience, they need not be afraid of control. When we realize this, that we are justifying a proposal as significant as this, that we should have some feedback insurance and say beware, now we are doing something that we should not do, maybe we should step on the brake, maybe reject the proposal or return to recast, so that the procedure is not so difficult, and try to evaluate, resolve and discuss these matters again in some broader discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u35	I thank Mr Zahradník, who has been the last duly entered into the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I want to thank you very much, first of all, without any cliché, for a debate that was very unideological. I was a little worried it would turn into some kind of arena of blame, who wants to break into someone's apartment, that it would be a sequel to a big brother or something. I very much appreciate the fact that the debate was very balanced and that we were talking here about what methods could be used to avoid having to enter households at all. Because believe me, even for me, this is a matter that is extreme. I can get to that in the context of individual responses to your subjects. A colleague Zemek said a lot about this and it was very interesting from his point of view practical, because he was dealing with it. I had the same experience from interviewing a man who performs this function at the Ostrava City Council. He told me how it works in practice. They have, like, a thousand impulses a year, but last year they investigated one, and that's only because the guy confessed. Somehow he didn't realize he was actually confessing. According to Ringelmann and other things, it's fun, it's a real return to Jules Verne. It is a method that does not really allow officials to work and to do anything at all. There really are a number of situations that may have been brought to my attention at the county office that a number of mayors really turn to them and say, "Oh, my God, you've approved something, and now you're not giving us a tool for how we can control it at all. Believe that education, and I'm saying this quite seriously, because we may have supported, and I'm happy for that, an interesting project of Silesian grammar school that does enlightenment so that girls and guys from grammar school normally go out into the streets after school and ring the bells somewhere where there may be more smoke from the chimney, and warn very decent people that they may be breaking the law and if they know about the boiler subsidies and so on. We supported the project. It spreads across the Czech Republic and we are very happy for it. So the education will be in any case and it already is today. The problem is that there's a certain unforgettable large group of people who count hundreds and maybe thousands of people who aren't told anything because they know it's not allowed, but they're doing it because they know that no one can get at them and they're inhospitable. And it's not often enough, as mayors warn us, because they know them very well, not even people from socially weak layers. Often enough, they are people who are definitely not deep in their pockets, and yet they throw in waste because they get rid of them, they don't have to sort them out, and they burn so well and of course they release the desired heat. To Mr Junek, by your means, Mr President. Bureaucracy is still there today. Because people turn to the mayor, he just can't help them, because the clerk has to go there, he's dealing with it with Ringelmann, he's measuring scales against the sky somewhere, so he's got to go there anyway, he's not gonna investigate anything, and it's ridiculous. On the contrary, money is spent. We did an analysis and found that such cases could be the first thousand a year, because they are approximately 200 ORPs and the cases were approximately ten on the ORPs. But it's average. In fact, some cost of around 10 million for the whole Czech Republic came out of this, because one check, including the ash analysis, estimated that it could be around CZK 5,6,000. Unfortunately, and that is also the answer to my colleague Vácha, it is not enough for other methods, and so did colleague Pavera, such as the swab from the chimney walls, from the flue gas routes, because they are not proof. The kominík sweep won't help at that point. The problem is that the flue gases or fixings can, of course, be decades. And this guy can say, well, yeah, but I didn't burn it, it was someone in front of me, my grandfather, or the person who lived in that house before. And you can't tell if the heavy metals that are there that can detect anything, or the PCBs and other substances, are years old or 15 years old. You just can't tell. The only way to do that is to analyze the ashes. That's the thing that's conclusive. And that is the answer to my colleague Vácha. We have actually examined all methods, sampling from these flue gas routes, of course we have considered drones as well. Today, for example, the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, which belongs to the Ministry of Environment, has been testing the possibilities of using drones for three years. The problem is that the drone itself is unable to measure essentially clean emissions because it hangs at some height above the chimney, it cannot sit completely on the chimney, regardless of the fact that it cannot fly in the dark and such things, and even the sensors are not enough to prove what is in the ashes today. This means that it can be accompanying methods, but it cannot be the main method of measurement. It is not conclusive and would not stand up as evidence in administrative proceedings. I'm just not in favour of resigning. Exactly those cases that my colleague Hájek may have mentioned, and I know dozens of them, we said: don't be angry, dear citizens, but the state can't help you, try to make a deal with the neighbor. I can't really figure it out, I can't prove it, I just can't. As legislators, I think we should just not settle for such a situation. I don't even think it would make neighborly relationships worse, because it's happening today, so they're already bad, only there's nothing we can do about it. I was talking about costs. Mrs. Hnyková. Scent substances are indeed a matter of hygiene limits. It's complicated because they're very difficult to measure. They are so-called trained sniffers, it is a technical term, training specialists who really smell and are certified sniffers. He's able to recognize the intensity of the smell. They're normally used by the authorities. I'm not kidding, really. A certain odour intensity is then allowed within the integrated authorisation of a specific operation. I have good news for such cases, because for the first time this year, we are launching a special challenge from the State Environmental Fund, to which companies that meet hygiene standards can report, but still poison the surroundings with odors, and they can use the subsidy from the SFŽP up to a certain amount to remove this odor, in a situation of course, that they meet these standards. But standards are very complex, very complexly measurable, because you can measure the content of certain substances in emissions, for example, but it is very difficult to measure odorous substances. They're really physically unmeasureable. It's always very subjective. For my colleagues in Ostrava, I just want to say that an Ostrava rocket is a concept that exists. I saw her myself. I didn't drown with her. And colleagues from Ostrava themselves say that unfortunately they were often imported from Poland, where they were mixed with coal sludge. It was even made almost semi-industrially, so he was the manufacturer who actually supplied it. I'm afraid that's what he's been supplying up to now. It's a thing that really exists. It burns very well, destroys the boiler reliably, but mostly it drowns in such boiler wrecks where there is nothing left to destroy, but all the more so it produces these substances, because the low temperature of burning plastic bottles emits terrible compounds, dioxins and others, which are obviously violently carcinogenic. [[17.20 hours]] I would really like to conclude by reassuring everyone that we have considered all possible methods available in these methods, including scientific and, of course, modern methods. I think my colleague Zahradník or one of his colleagues was saying how it is possible that at a time when we are almost flying to Mars, not yet with the human crew, but we are getting close, so that we are unable to measure this by modern methods. That's right. But at that point, it would be really great anachronism to go back to the 19th century to that Ringelmann, when we at least have analytical methods that are already at the level of the 20th or 21st century. So I want to assure everyone that we are ready to discuss in committee, of course on factual arguments, on professional methods, how to ensure that a decent citizen is as protected as possible from possible bullying. I believe that this multi-stage control system simply makes it possible, and, as my colleague Zemek rightly said, this institute, this measure, which I consider extreme, i.e. the possibility of entering the home, is really on chronic peepers, chronic lawbreakers who do not give notice to them repeatedly. He's gonna alert them to the office, but they're just gonna say, you know, get on our backs, you're not gonna get to our house, so what do you want to tell us? And I think that we should act in such a way as to have an instrument against these people, but at the same time not to be easily abused or ideally exploitable against decent people at all. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the precedent, as I said in my opening speech, has already been created by the adoption of an amendment to the Public Health Act, which will allow entry into households, into family homes for natural persons, if there is exceeded the level of noise or vibration under penalty, I repeat again, half a million crowns. We approved this in the framework of this amendment last year and I believe that this is therefore not a precedent and, on the contrary, I consider it to be very balanced. So I would like to ask the esteemed House to release this proposal for further reading, to release it to committees, and there we can continue to discuss the technical parameters and the possibilities for the law to be refined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u37	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur is still interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u38	Thank you. I'll be quick. More or less, everything essential has been said here. In my personal opinion, the law is capable of passing through the second reading, which I recommend. I have noted that a proposal has been made here - I think it was a colleague of the Zahradník - to return to the process. I don't know if I'm saying this right. I think we should vote on that later. And I would also like to propose that, unless, of course, a motion for a re-evaluation is passed, I would like to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 50 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u39	I'm filing a motion to shorten the deadline to 50 days. That was the final word of the rapporteur. I will call our colleagues from the lobby because I am registering a motion to return the proposal to the plaintiff for completion. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Gardener.]] I am sorry, Mr Member, the debate is closed. You can't talk anymore. Just please, if you want to clarify your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u40	Yes. I, Mr President, Mr Vice-President, would like to clarify this. After all, I proposed first rejection at first reading, and I said that if this proposal is not approved, then I would like you to register the proposal for a re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u41	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry. I've only registered a proposal for a revision. So I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will first vote on the motion to reject the proposal. In the event that it fails, the application for repayment of the application submitted for revision. There's a request for everyone to check out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. First of all, we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I hereby initiate the vote to reject the motion tabled. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 75, 146 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 97. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by Mr zahradník is a proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of returning the proposed proposal to the applicant, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 76, 151 Members are registered, for 32, against 102. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? No. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on the Environment Committee's commandments as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 77, 153 Members and Members, for 150, against none. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Mr. Zahradník... Excuse me, Mr Klán first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u42	Thank you for the floor. I propose a committee on public administration and regional development because it also concerns municipalities. And it would be nice to propose, too, and I propose a constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u43	Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote first on the commandment of this proposal by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote on the commandment to this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 78; 154 Members and Members are registered, for 146, against 2. The motion was accepted. The last draft committee is the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have taken a vote on the commandment of this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 79, 154 Members and Members registered, for 66, against 63. The motion was denied. I therefore note that we have ordered this proposal to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee and committee on public administration and regional development as another committee. There was a proposal to shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is to shorten the deadline to 50 days, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 80, 154 Members and Members registered, for 72, against 60. The motion was not accepted. That was the last vote. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-012-061.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. We will continue to discuss further points that we have on the agenda. The next item is:
