ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u1	57. Government bill amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital city of Prague, as amended, and other related laws /house print 851/ - first reading Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec is ready, Mr Koubek also, so we can start discussing this point. I therefore ask the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec to present the press under the authority of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law amending the law on municipalities, the regional law and the capital of Prague and other related laws on the remuneration of representatives. The current legislation on remuneration of members of the Boards of Directors appears to be unsatisfactory, in particular for the following reasons. There are unjustified differences in the legislation on remuneration of members of municipal councils, regions and the capital city of Prague, e.g. at the rate of monthly remuneration for the performance of otherwise comparable functions, the amount of remuneration at the end of the term of office or at the end of the term of office of a member of the Board of Appeal, the withdrawal from office or resignation from office during the term of office or the possibility of transferring unused leave under the mandate. The current, in some provisions inaccurate or incomplete legislation allows different interpretations. For these reasons, the procedures of individual local authorities according to the same provisions of the law are different in our view of comparable situations. [[16.00 hours]] In general, the legislation in question is linked in practice to greater or minor application problems, and the caselaw on the relevant contested parts of the law already exists. Unfortunately, this case law is very exceptional, i.e. There are not as many of these judicates as it would seem necessary. Setting up the whole system especially for smaller municipalities and urban areas is very complex for these reasons. The subject matter of the draft law is therefore the modification of the new system for the remuneration of members of the regional authorities. The proposal maintains the existing concept based on the fact that the basic method of determining the monthly remuneration for the performance of the functions of representatives of local authorities is governed by law, and the Government is empowered to issue implementing legislation in the form of a government regulation laying down the amount of the monthly remuneration to members of representative offices. The proposal also maintains the division of members of the councils into so-called. relaxed and unreleased. Releasing members of the council shall continue to be entitled by law to a monthly remuneration of the amount laid down by the Government Decree. A monthly remuneration may be granted to unreleased members of the council, but a decision on whether it will be granted and the determination of the amount of such remuneration shall be reserved for the representative of the local authority concerned. The Government's regulation sets the maximum amount of remuneration for the members of the council who are not released, but the lower limit, or where the remuneration will be, will be decided by the relevant local authority. However, for unreleased mayors, mayors and chieftains, the proposal newly sets a minimum monthly remuneration of 0.3 months, which would belong to a relaxed member of the council of the municipality, who performs as mayor or mayor or captain. An example of the proposed changes can be given in the arrangements for extraordinary remuneration, the provision of which does not allow members of the Board of Directors to be provided with current legislation. Extraordinary rewards, although not necessarily, but still are, are in practice provided, in the form of gifts in an uncontrollable and non-limitable amount and without public control, which is perceived very negatively. The proposed amendment allows the local authority to provide an exceptional remuneration to the member of the council for the fulfilment of exceptional or particularly important tasks for the local authority. The maximum amount of this extraordinary remuneration is laid down by law, so it is limited. The current amendment prohibits the local authorities from providing the members of the representatives of these local authorities with any donations linked to the performance of their duties. Another example of the proposed change is the adjustment of severance payments. The existing laws provide for remuneration at the end of the term of office of a member of the council. However, the regulation in the municipal establishment, the regional establishment and the law on the capital city of Prague contains unjustified differences in terms of the persons concerned, the method of payment, but in particular in terms of the amount of so-called. I'm going to leave. The amendment to the legislation for municipalities, regions and the capital city of Prague unites and provides for entitlement to severance payments of 1+3 of the current monthly remuneration, i.e. at the rate of one month's remuneration, to which a multiple of the monthly remuneration is calculated according to the number of years of office, but not more than three years. The working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Interior and representatives of the ministries concerned, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, representatives of the regional authorities, in the format of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Government, the Association for Rural Reconstruction and the Capital City of Prague, to which the issue concerns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u3	I thank the Home Secretary Milan Chovanc for his introduction. And before we continue with the news report, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Vozka, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, Mr Milan Šarapatka and Mrs Semelová, apologize at 16 o'clock and between 13 and 19 o'clock, from 16 o'clock for business reasons - that is for tomorrow. I would now ask that Mr Jiří Koubek, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, present his report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think the opening report of the Minister has been very detailed and concerns all the matters that are in that law. Let me stress exactly, as the Minister has pointed out, that so far under the existing three laws, namely the Act on Municipalities, the Act on Regions and the Act on the Capital City of Prague, in terms of cash claims related to the performance of the function of members of the representative offices, there are unjustified differences in the municipalities, regions and capital city of Prague. We have already discussed this during the last amendment, which we discussed here in the spring, and unfortunately this has not been completely removed. I am pleased that the Ministry of the Interior brings an amendment to these three laws, which seek to unite these parameters. If it has succeeded in all of them, as it would probably be desirable, this may be more debate on the Committee on Public Administration or on the Committee on Budgets, but let me highlight two moments that I think every mayor who comes into contact with this must certainly appreciate. The first is that the existing two-component system of calculating the remuneration for members of the municipal councils and the capital city of Prague was particularly difficult in smaller municipalities. We know that mayors sometimes had trouble calculating what their wages were. The audits subsequently found out that they should have had wages of CZK 120 higher and similar, which are negligible amounts, and these were rather errors, which subsequently appeared in individual reports of poor management of municipalities, and they were unnecessary problems, I think. The proposed way of dividing municipalities into 15 categories is I think exactly the right and effective one. We can talk about the size of these categories, but this model is definitely functional and especially applicable so that immediately from 1 January the mayor will basically know how many individual members of the council will take to perform their duties, which has not yet been possible, because with each citizen this reward was different, which, according to this amendment, will no longer be quite simple. Two. It's already been mentioned here, and I would like to point it out, a question of legal opportunity to reward a member of the council. We know how this goes around in a form of gifts. It's a very unfortunate practice. I would say that this also undermines the confidence of citizens in individual local authorities when they are paid by donation contracts of cash remuneration for the work of representatives, and yet it is not exactly the reward for the performance of their duties, but it covers and disguises itself for other activities. I think it is a good thing that the possibility beyond the legal framework to reward the representative or mayor for extraordinary performance appeared in this amendment. As regards the proposed remuneration for the performance of the mayor who was not released, which the Minister here spoke of, I have some doubts as to whether the proposed remuneration of 0,3 times or, where appropriate, considered in the second variant 0.4 times, which would belong to the mayor, if any, is as crucial a difference as the Ministry is trying to give us in the explanatory statement. The impact on the smallest municipalities up to 300 inhabitants according to the explanatory report is somewhere between 128 and 170 thousand CZK. I am quite happy to hear, for example, the opinion of the Association of Local Authorities on the Committee on Public Administration of Regional Development, how much these variants will actually affect the budgets of the smallest municipalities. I would also like to mention the severance payment in connection with the termination of the term of office as a result of the elections, when the practice in municipalities, regions and the capital of Prague is unified, when the option of 1+3 monthly remuneration is proposed. This will certainly be your concern, Members, who are also representatives in the municipalities of the Republic, because the practice of 1+5 has been different so far, and it will certainly be up to you to explain to your mayors or the relaxed mayors what circumstances this change is taking place. I would say that will certainly be one of the things that we will be debating on the Public Administration Committee. In addition to the amount of remuneration, remuneration or graduation, the subject of leave and new legal regulation, which appeared in the law or in the amendment, can certainly be one of the debates, i.e. the obligation to keep a register, or a register directly on the drawing of permitted vacant representatives. I think we have a lot of topics for the Public Administration Committee, and I can only ask you to let it go to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate in which I have Mrs Fischerová's application, but before her, the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'm with Mrs. Fischerová, it's all good. I will not propose rejection, but I would like to point out some problematic points of the bill. Now that the rapporteur has spoken about the vacation, I will respond to a few points back, so I do not know how you deal with paternity leave there. I guess Home Office officials forgot about that. But that's just to the edge. First of all, I consider the misconception that the council approves the mayor's reward. Really wrong, 'cause most people decide. I don't know why it's there. It says here - in carrying out extraordinary tasks and so on. I don't think that's right. And I recommend to colleagues and colleagues in the Public Administration Committee to think about it once more, because who knows some political reality, that - the next logical step could be, Minister, that ministers approve the Prime Minister's reward for carrying out extraordinary tasks, for example, that he has managed to endure and leave all the other ministers in the government, so that they will give him a reward. I'm giving it a little ad absurdum. It's not the right principle. Then something I consider unnecessary, and these are the ones who marry. The fact that there's a specific amount of 2,000 seems strange and pointless to me, and I don't know why it's there. There's another way to deal with this. An example from my hometown. We once set up a committee to perform wedding ceremonies, and the council approved each member of the committee almost to the top of the amount of being on that committee, depending on what the rules are. It's quite elegant, we don't have to put the amount into the law. I want to read you one paragraph, because I think it was made up that the money was calculated first, and then the resulting money was invented by a mathematical structure. I have no objection to this, but if we read the text of § 73 para. 2 - and please pay attention to how easily and intelligible, in quotation marks, something can be written: The reward of a relaxed member of the municipal council who performs the duties of Mayor of the statutory city in the size category of municipalities over 200 thousand. "In other words, this is Ostrava and Brno, so we have a special remuneration for the mayors of two cities, "it is set to be at least 2,5 times the remuneration of a vacant member of the municipal council, who performs the mayor's office in the municipality in the size category of the municipalities up to 300 inhabitants, and at the same time was not higher than the remuneration of a vacant member of the regional council, who performs the function of the regional governor in the size category of the regions up to 500 thousand inhabitants." Someone had to count it, and then they invented the structures. Firstly, I want to say that the regional law distinguishes the size of the council by the population, but there is no 500 000. Here we introduce another border, relatively illogical, because we have 45 members of the council in the regions up to 600,000 inhabitants, 55 members of the district council in the size of 600 001 to 900 thousand and over 900,000 65 members of the regional council. All of a sudden, we're giving 500,000 here. There's one country like that if I'm not mistaken. So we have to write when I translate it: Mayor Ostrava must not take more than the captain of the Karlovy Vary Region. I don't know if that's a good thing, I don't exactly want to judge it, but I find the construction unnecessarily complex for two particular cities. And why 2.5 times the population to 300 inhabitants and not to 1,000? I don't know. I do, actually. Someone calculated it, took specific amounts and then found it - I would recommend trying to simplify it further. The very principle of unifying the rules, unfortunately, has failed to do so in the last hearing, Mrs Jana Černochová, is absolutely correct, and the fact that the principles of the three laws on self-government and remuneration are combined is also correct, but it really seems unnecessarily complicated to me. And then commendation. Sometimes the law has to deal with something that doesn't even occur to you. And for the first time in the law, it is forbidden to give a reward to the person who changes office with his colleague. It never occurred to me that a case like this could happen, but I know it again from my hometown. A person goes to the mayor's office, there he is, within the framework of political agreements - that is, of course, ready - giving up the position of mayor and leaving the mayor's office as deputy mayor. And what was the reaction of existing legislation? This guy got three severance payments. That means if two were like that - what would I call it? - economically-thinking people had the hippo skin and switched jobs every three months, so they're gonna take 24 salaries a year. This novel removes it, that's right. There might be a question as to why we haven't dealt with this before. Well, because it never occurred to me that someone would take advantage of it like that. But since I already know from practice that it may have happened, I really commend that it is not possible at all. Question to the debate, and I do not know the exact answer, so I say to the discussion - the resignation of the suspended mayor or the governor. I'm not sure. It's not quite that simple. Almost always the official reason is not because they regrouped political interests, that the mayor did something wrong. He doesn't communicate, he doesn't communicate, he doesn't communicate, he doesn't communicate. And that's the even better case. Then there may be other suspicions, and according to that law, he will have a legal right to leave. I don't know if that's a good thing. I'm more inclined to say no. Of course I will then hear objections that the mayor was good, those representatives conspired against him. That's the risk of political life. Whoever loses most, it's not pleasant, it can happen, but if they give here - at the same time he can get three months and in order to do so calmly, they might still approve the reward. For his extraordinary efforts, he fulfilled an extraordinary task by releasing his office to someone else. And he could get another salary. That's not a claim, but some of the majority could vote for it in the council. But basically, and that's what I want to praise, unify this reward, that's good. I think even the principle of the continuance of the three functions is acceptable and correct. Just the details, maybe they're not the details, maybe colleagues on the committee can still assess and possibly correct it or dismiss it from the law. I really think it's pointless with the inmates. I would lean to it - and if the committee doesn't do it, I'll read it in second reading as my personal proposal - to release the principle of approval of the mayor's fees. That's really not happy. Then the only thing that matters is the political courage to ask for it. Can you imagine a functional coalition where the mayor comes in and says, "So, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm doing it well, Christmas is coming, why don't you suggest me a reward? Or better yet, the secretary of office will come, because he is in charge of financial matters, and he will say: Dear councillor, I propose for the council, I think that this year the mayor or mayor has worked extremely well and I propose a reward - and now add the number and number of salaries. [[Nesroz.]] It's almost certain it'll pass. But it's not like that. If we lay down government regulations and we don't let it happen in municipalities, which I think is the best and the hardest thing to do than to set it up ourselves, then we would have this principle that, in fact, most of the people are rewarding their leader, because on the one hand - and it's the right thing to do today, because it was done by giving themselves a gift. And this bill says that a gift cannot be provided, even after the end of the term of office. That's right. And what's the difference between a gift and a bonus? It's in the nomenclature. But the effect is exactly the same. Perhaps it is more tax-effective for the State, because it pays social and health benefits, it pays a tax on dependent activities, whereas there is only a donation tax. But the principle is the same, and I think it's wrong. So if we are against gifts, and I am against gifts, then we should also be against the principle that the council mostly approves the rewards of mayors or mayors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u7	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Mrs Jana Fischerová, who has now been duly registered, has so far been the last one entered into the debate. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u8	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow the words of my predecessors. I was very interested in the analysis of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who here gave practical life examples that I would not have thought of. But he's right, our chairman of the MP's club. [[A mild laugh in the hall.]] As always, of course, as I've heard. But it's really something from life, and I thought about it as a former mayor. I also recall some specific cases of the council meeting in small municipalities. And really, certain things can happen. He used the whip and sugar here to say there are positive things about it, but some of them need to be discussed on our public administration committee. That is why I am also applying to this issue, as a member of the Public Administration Committee. I have prepared something, but many have already been said. Maybe I'd just be historical to the municipal law. We know that it was first created in 1990. That was Law No. 367/1990 Coll. Then it happened that the regions were formed in 2000, as they are now in the form we know. And the positive of the amendment to the municipal law now is that, in fact, when regions were created, laws on territorial self-governing units were brought together. The law on municipalities had to be amended and it was then Act No 128/2000 Coll. And now, even after 2003, when the big amendment took place, this amendment of the law is being made here today. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The aim of the amendment is, among other things, really unification of the legislation on remuneration of members of the Prague City Council and members of the municipal councils of the capital. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura said here that Jana Černochová already wanted this last time when we were discussing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u9	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the sněmovna for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u10	- to unite this. That didn't happen. I am also glad that Prague and the city districts will be aligned in this law in a conceptual way with other municipal councils throughout the Czech Republic. That's really a positive thing. I praise you, too. I am pleased that this will proceed further to the Public Administration Committee. But there are some things that we still have to look at. And besides what Zbyněk Stanjura has named here, there are some legislative amendments. It's also a term that we have mayors, mayors in the village. A deputy mayor in Prague. It's little things, but it should really be legislatively all of this united. This amendment, which is based on remuneration, is based on the average salary in the non-business sector, which will be multiplied by a coefficient determined according to the size of the municipality. The amendment also brings new categories of municipalities. There's eleven of them. Every mayor can then find out which category he belongs to. Mainly, they divide the size of the communities into one thousand. Those are the small villages. Many of us know how mayors and mayors of the small municipalities have a lot of problems that are affecting them. And this would certainly be a good guide for them, because we now have another law in the legislative process. It concerns... it's a copyright law that also has to increase the costs for the municipalities. That's why it's good that there's another law that should also help small municipalities. I recommend that you proceed to the second reading of this law. And so, as an organizational committee, he suggested that the Guarantee Committee could be the Public Administration Committee, so I agree with this opinion and I recommend this. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u11	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words - Minister? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to answer some questions very briefly. Of course, we are ready for a debate on the design of individual rewards, as has been said here. We are ready to debate the amount for the inmates, for the gifts or for the extraordinary reward that Mr Stanjura spoke of. In its essence, the state at present is that the council decides to give a gift not only to the mayor, but to any member of the council, which is related to the performance of his duties, for some extraordinary activity and the gift is not limited. That means above is without any upper limit. We, in agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with the other entities concerned, have come up with this proposal - to allow the council to give a kind of extraordinary reward to the mayor or any other member of the council under clearly defined conditions and with the maximum possible limit. That means it's a shift. If this falls out of the law, we should also return there that donations are inadmissible. That way, however, we will definitely make it impossible for the deputies to reward a member of the council for some extraordinary performance. It's for debate. For us, if it falls out, it's not a major problem. It was based on the request of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. And we are ready for the debate that will be on the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Although I have closed the debate, it has priority rights. I asked for final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u14	I'm sorry. Then with priority rights. I'm for both, of course. This means banning gifts and at the same time without [[unintelligible.]] As a young alderman, I experienced it in 1990. It is very humiliating for those who are to decide when the secretary of office proposes a reward to the mayor. The mayor wanted to leave. He didn't want to be there. It is equally humiliating, and let us consider it when the city council approves the remuneration of the elementary or kindergarten director. Because it's from his budget. From his money. It's not from the city's money. We're not talking about it when the city decides to give some extra money to the principal of kindergarten, the primary school principal. We're talking about a principle that's very formal. The headmaster rewards all his employees at his discretion, and if he wants to admit part of the rewards to himself, he goes to city council and there comes material that he must justify. It's usually signed by a deputy principal or a director. And he writes: I propose a reward to the director, the principal of ten thousand crowns, because they did it, that's it. And there is a note below: this material does not concern the municipal budget at all, because the money will be paid out of the school's budget. I don't think it's worthy of anyone. Not even those who suggest it, not even those who approve. Let's also talk about this in the Public Administration Committee, whether or not to abolish this principle and leave the authority normally to the head of the school. Put yourself in it. Many of you have been there. Many of you have been councillors or mayors. It's really not a dignified situation. It's very similar here when we approve in the House of Rewards, I think to members of the grant and technological agency. Why isn't the government doing this? Why are we doing this here? I also don't think it's dignified for us to know if we're gonna send someone 63 grand, or if we don't get a chance to meet this... And if these are unnecessary bureaucratic steps that, in my opinion, almost humiliate all those who have to participate in the process, I think we can agree to cancel them and not use them. Don't let anyone get mad at me. The mayor is elected, I don't think he's motivated by the salary, but that he wants to do something in his community. It's kind of a bypass, you know, the gifts. I agree. Surrounding the possibility that once was giving a reward out of the law is out of the question. And it's unfortunate. Just to explain that I don't support either of them. It's not about the limit. I think the right limit is zero, because if you look at the critical mechanisms, then it would just be formal and undignified anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u15	I may have registered my colleague Janulík's application, but since there is a closed debate and colleague Stanjura has spoken with priority law, I cannot do so. I'll ask the rapporteur if he's interested in speaking. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u16	Thank you. We've already had a debate here, which I think we're going to have even more detail on the Public Administration Committee. I would just like to point out to all Members who are from outside the capital city of Prague that the possibility of granting extraordinary rewards is somewhat bound by the law and the humiliation of the possibility of obtaining severance pay after the end of the mandate. So that we don't forget to debate that these things are certainly connected, so that we don't forget to tie them together, as they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-007-057.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we'll get back to the hearing. There was no proposal to return or refuse - yes, rapporteur? - in the discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. I'll check you all out first, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. Once the number of applicants has settled... we will decide on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the Committee on Guarantee, in the 199 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is against who? Thank you. Voting order number 199, from present 113 for 108, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies? It's not like that. Therefore, we do not need to continue voting and I can end the first reading of this bill. Thank you to Minister Chovanc, thank you to the rapporteur, I conclude with paragraph 57. Before we continue, I will say two apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jana Lorencová, on personal grounds and to Mr Fiedler, at 17 o'clock, for working reasons. The next item is the item
