ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u1	52. Proposal by Members Petr Gazdík, Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský, Jiří Skalický and František Vácha to issue a law amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital of Prague, as amended, Act No. 491/2001 Coll., on elections to municipal councils and amending certain laws, as amended, Act No. 22/2004 Coll., on the local referendum and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Rules of Procedure, as amended /German Press 282/ - First Reading Petr Gazdík is the representative of the petitioners, but Mrs Věra Kovářová is preparing. I will ask Mr Josef Uhlík, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I note that the Government's position has been delivered to you as Parliamentary Press 282/1. Mrs Věra Kovářová has the floor as the petitioner, and that is when the Chamber of Deputies calms down and we disband the party in front of the benches so that... [[Strong noise, Members stand and discuss in the premises of the entire hall.]] I am happy to give you my word, my colleague, but I really expect that the discussions that are now leading to something other than the law on municipalities and other laws will eventually be in the foyer and there will be sufficient peace. Please, you can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We have a rather extensive proposal to address the issue of the way mayors are elected as representatives of local authorities. I note that the current legislation of the Institute of Direct Election of the Mayor does not know the municipality. At present, the model is applied according to which the mayor of the municipality and members of the board are elected by the municipal council at its constituent meeting if the conditions for its establishment are met. This model is applied without exception in the municipalities of all categories. That is what the proposal is about to bring about a change. Allow me now to introduce him as one of the petitioners. The draft introduces a direct election of the mayor of the municipality in territorial self-governing units with a population of less than 1,500. However, it is not excluded in the more popular municipalities where the mayor can be elected if the municipal council decides not to set up a municipal council. In both cases, as is currently the case, in these municipalities where the municipality council is not established, the mayor of the municipality exercises its competence. The proposal is based on the belief that, especially in smaller municipalities, which are the vast majority in the Czech Republic's conditions, the direct election of the mayor is a significantly more appropriate way of establishing this important municipal body. This is because the inhabitants of these municipalities are perceived by the mayor as the central figure of the local authority concerned. This impression is justified. Since the mayor of the smaller village does not have a large apparatus available, all responsibility lies for its daily functioning and for its successful development on its shoulders. The introduction of a direct election is clearly in line with this concept. [[16.50 hours]] However, the proposal is based on more populous local authorities, where the direct election of the mayor may take place, if a simple condition is met - if the municipal council decides that the council of the municipality will not establish itself in the next parliamentary term. The only difference is that in municipalities up to 1,500 inhabitants the direct choice of mayor is mandatory, in larger municipalities it is an optional institute. Let me briefly sum up the important arguments for this proposal. In small municipalities without a municipal council, the mayor is a key institute of self-government and voters should be able to choose him directly. The mayor's election wouldn't involve one or two votes of a low-ranking council, but right after the election, it would be clear who the mayor is. We cannot agree with Sobotkův's government's argument that this will reduce the role of the council. The mayor of a small village without an extensive apparatus bears a great burden of responsibility. His legitimacy should therefore be greater. We avoid cases where people specifically did not want a particular mayor and made it clear in the elections, did not get preferential votes and his fellow party jumped over him, but the political agreements were handed down to the head of the community only by a vote in the council. The government's argument that a change in the Constitution would be necessary will not stand. The role of the council is not diminished and although the direct election of the mayor is not directly described in the Constitution, it is not in any way contrary to it. Nor does the government's argument that the appeal of the directly elected mayor by the local referendum is not the exercise of direct democracy, but only the opposite of elections. In our opinion, this is the opposite of direct elections and a direct expression of the will of the electorate. At the beginning of my speech, I said that the proposal tabled was a major proposal. This is already the case because the change of choice must necessarily be reflected in a number of provisions of the laws concerned. I think I have made the very principle on which this amendment is based sufficiently clear, and I look forward to the next debate. We see the direct choice of mayors of small municipalities for these and other reasons, which I have said, as a contribution to democracy at municipal level, and I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u3	I thank Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is one of the petitioners, and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Josef Uhlík to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The speaker is very windy.]] I'm sorry. As for my intelligence report, to begin with, I'd say... I'm sorry... I would say that I do not agree with the proposal personally, but because the direct choice is divided into..., the population of the direct election of the mayor is limited, but we can discuss it in committees, so I am not making a motion to reject it at first reading, and this is how I would limit myself so far. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Ivan Adamec is the first Member to join, a colleague of Chvojka, Petr Bendl and Jan zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was just talking here about the opening of the law on municipalities, that I very much hate to see it, because it usually turns out worse, as always, and I see this case absolutely identical. And I have to say, I'm surprised that still these tendencies, to design this method of direct elections, are. We've been here a couple of times. There were proposals from the Dawn movement that we rejected, and we will continue to do so. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I have to say... Maybe some colleagues don't care about the village law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u7	I'll try to give you some peace for your performance, Mr. Colleague. Once again, I ask all my fellow Members to hold discussions that are not related to the municipal law only in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u8	Thank you, Mr President. He's already had a few flaws at the beginning. Needless to say, I don't like the division into communities of different numbers of inhabitants. In the end, we have over 6,000 municipalities here and say that the mayor of a small village has more responsibility than the mayor of a large city, so I certainly don't share that idea. Big city, big worries, small town, also big worries, small village, also big worries. That's just the way it is! The mayor is seen everywhere as an authority, and if not, he hasn't been mayor for a long time. This must also be said at the outset. Every mayor just has his share of responsibility, and he's not small. And it's true that citizens see the mayor as city officials and don't see him as one of the members of the council. That's right. But think of it as the municipal elections are taking place today. Unlike other elections, you can vote through the ballots, de facto if you remember, the ballot is one of the municipal elections, where all parties are marked by the movement under different serial numbers, and the voters can vote either one candidate, or they can vote through the parties or the movement by making the most of their votes as many as the members of the council. When you look at it, it's not about the number of votes a single person gets, even if it can also move there, but it's about the number of votes a single party gets, movements. Here I see the first stone of injury in direct choice, because it will always be that according to this, the mayor should be the strongest party or movement. That's just the way it is, because the other one that needs to be popular doesn't get the votes, because of course there's the political coloring. Another point I see there is the rebuttal in the referendum. I don't know if the petitioners have read what the local referendum law looks like, but it's forbidden to hold a referendum on the mayor's appeal in that law. It's strictly forbidden there. So even this way isn't possible. Noting that the proposed law brings chaos, because if you have experience in municipal policy, you know that the last meeting of the council is determined by the number of members of the next council. There are already certain frictions, because actually former representatives determine the form - partly - of the new council. I can't imagine here at the last meeting they'd decide there'd be a direct mayor's choice. I must say that experience from other countries is different. And, of course, we made a direct choice in our constitutional system a few years ago, when the President's direct election took place, and I think that those who were vehemently promoting it today may really regret it. But I would hate for us to apply direct elections to specific people, because that shouldn't happen. It should be a system. [[17,00 hours]] I reject the direct choice, because the fact that the council is working today - and the cases that have been said here that maybe the mayor is not elected at all and that people will resign from the candidate to move to the council and then get elected by the mayor, so in practice I know what that means. The party that's gonna do it, or the movement that's gonna do it, they're gonna dig a political grave. And so is the man. And according to that, the council looks like it over the last four years, and there's a lot of instability. That's what I think was the beginnings of that representative democracy in the municipalities. I think it's working fine today. I'm an old conservative in that when something works well, there's no reason to change it. And the communal sphere, in terms of how mayors are elected, works well. By the way, you can see on a number of cities today that there are changes in city leadership, the council can handle it, specifically I don't want to name some cities, we have all experienced the situation here in Prague, in other big cities. But it may be due to the inexperience of new political entities. So I'm saying it's not good to change that. By the way, Slovak experience should warn us a little about this way. This would be just the first step, the second step would be to introduce a direct choice of mayors completely, and then, of course, it's about another electoral system and other powers of those mayors and the other position of the mayors. But if anyone thinks that the mayor's seriousness is determined by whether he is elected by the citizens or elected by the council, I don't know. The embassies are public, people go there, and, of course, if they're not satisfied, they'll be able to see it properly. So I really see it as a proposal that is counterproductive in my opinion. Just the introduction, the elections actually say that if we wanted a direct election of mayors, that would have to change the electoral system, that's the first thing, and you can't call off the mayor in a local referendum, so that's the second thing that's described there...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u9	So once again, I will ask left to right, right to left and center to calm the House. Mr Ivan Adamec has the floor in the debate, the others are having a debate in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u10	I know everyone's looking forward to parliamentary holidays, we're all in the same situation, but let's try to hold out until seven o'clock. I'm not gonna remind you of cases from abroad where we know that when the mayor is elected by direct choice for a completely different political party or subject against the council, what problems it has. Those models are different, that's all right in the end. The fact that they introduced a direct election of mayors in Germany is different at all, there are different electoral periods, even the mayor may not be from the village. It's completely different choices again. I don't think we should play in this. I don't want to discuss this here any further, I think the law on municipalities is really set up, and the elections to the general councils, as they are set up, work very well, I warn against these interventions. And if anyone doesn't have enough, you can always remember how direct elections end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u11	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Mr Jan Chvojka is now on the list. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We've had something like this here before, even though it's bigger than that, Mr. Adamec spoke of it. There has already been a proposal once to introduce a direct choice of mayors, even if it concerns all municipalities and cities, now the proposal is slightly narrowed to a municipality of 1,500 inhabitants. I will speak first in general and then specifically about this press. In general, I think, like when I originally spoke about the broader bill, that it does not belong to the constitutional system and the system of democracy and the laws in the Czech Republic at all. We just have the mayor's choice here. There is really a problem, and we see it in Slovakia when the mayor is elected, or even the robe there, the governor here, directly and otherwise does not cooperate with the majority who is in the council. We know that the political consensus is very hard to find, and that there is always a problem when the mayor is elected directly, who has won the most votes, and otherwise there is a council that is completely different colors and does not understand each other, and the mayor does not, of course, enforce anything unless he has it directly in his competence and the council does not need it. So, in general, the idea of a direct election of mayors and captains to the Czech Republic seems to me, as I said last time, as one of the most unwise ideas anyone could suggest here. As for this particular proposal, first of all, it bothers me, and I guess I'm not alone, why 1,500 inhabitants, why not 1,300 or 2,000 or 3,000? That's why 1,500. We are not divided here in the municipal law or in the Constitution: a small village up to 1500, larger from 1,500 to 5,000, the city. Our legal system just doesn't know this terminology, and I think that number 1,500 is completely artificial. Second thing. I confess, I haven't studied the proposal in detail, I'm satisfied with the idea that I disagree with it - but at what date do the 1,500 people count? What if it's a village where it's 1,498, then 20 of them are born that year, the village is bigger, so it doesn't fall into that category of community that should vote for the mayor directly. Doesn't make much sense to me. It may be that, in view of this, the citizens of the municipality would vote directly for the mayor, the second term would vote indirectly because the population would increase. I just think that the proposal, although I understand the reasons why it was put forward, doesn't make sense to me. I repeat, the number 1,500 seems artificial to me, and I would have gotten any other number. In some ways, our rule of law does not distinguish communities into small, large, smaller, larger, up to 1,500 inhabitants or up to 5,000 inhabitants. What would happen if there were any sharp increases in the population numbers even during the term of the election? The choice would be made directly, then ten children would be born in the village, it would cross the border of 1,500. Would the mayor have the legitimacy? He should be legit, of course he's been elected, but he should be in the village where the directly elected mayor shouldn't be, because it's already climbing the 1,500 clause. So I'm joining the motion to dismiss and please support the rejection of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u13	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Adamec if he's actually applying for a point of fact? That's right. The rapporteur is certainly registering the motion for rejection tabled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry, of course I forgot to make my proposal. I consider this bill to be a very dangerous experiment that could really get out of hand, and I am making a motion to reject this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u15	Thank you and we continue the debate with Mr Petr Bendl's speech, and a colleague Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I am in conflict of interest in this respect, because I am also a representative of a village that has 900 inhabitants and which would be covered by this experiment, which I dare say will not work in practice. I already told you yesterday, and I know it from my colleagues in Slovakia. The introduction of a direct mayor's election is outlying sympathetic to anyone who doesn't know how the constant administration and self-government work. It looks really nice on the outside, so we can finally decide who it is, which is why it's being presented. But it is irresponsible that all this philosophy of the functioning of the community is set somehow today, it is set on the basis of the need to cooperate, the need to seek compromises, not to fight together. [[17.10 hours]] What the most small communities of up to 15,000 people are worried about today is where to get the money to be roads, to be pavements, to be lighting etc. These are the biggest problems of the community. Not the way the mayor gets elected. In the end, in that village, almost everyone knows, in the same way, especially in the small ones. People know who's popular there, who's going to run, etc. The deputies are wise enough to choose. If people make the wrong choice, then fine, one term will be one or the other. But the problem in practice isn't to elect the mayor, but to get rid of someone who's going crazy about the job. And that's what happens sometimes when somebody looks really nice, and then everything goes to his head, and suddenly they start fighting. They'll start practical fights to see if the mayor's right about the budget. Or the council... The people who, if you add it up afterwards, then represent a larger number of votes that they received in the council, etc. There's just a bunch of details and issues that a citizen doesn't actually see and solve unless he's interested in what's going on in that council. And what we're going to do, like crowds don't go to the council, sometimes some of the individualities that move the city when new sewers and cleaning systems are being made, or new electrifications are being made and wires are being removed from the air into the ground and so on, something about everyone, or a new system of tying up waste and charges, so it's being communicated that more people are coming. But other than that, I don't think a direct choice is the biggest problem in the community. It's more like where to get funding for what the community is supposed to provide people with for services. I'd be very proud not to try this experiment, especially in small villages. To look together for a way to improve the situation financially. I consider the existing operation under the Municipalities Act, which I believe was established in 1992, the complete basis, which is modelled and modified to date, as one of the best laws that has lasted for a very long time. And as my colleague Adamec said here, let's not poke into things that work relatively. And they work pretty well on how much problems they have to absorb and deal with every day. The concept of the functioning of the regions in the past - some of you may have been there, and I was one of those who participated in shaping the laws of public administration reform regarding the formation of the regions, we used the concept of the functioning of the municipalities. I think it's also a system that works that doesn't need major changes. And here we would have gone through the salami method of reaching into the entire system of public administration, and in my opinion, irresponsiblely. Let's try to say that this is an experiment that isn't worth discussing, and let's drop it, or reject it at first reading. I'm joining the motion for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u17	I thank Mr Petr Bendl and we continue the debate with Mr Jan zahradník's speech. Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u18	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the old principle is that it is not good to disturb the things that last. This proposal put forward by my colleagues seems so fundamental to me that I may be a little lacking a vote in support of this debate. But unfortunately, I have to admit, however much I want to be that voice, I can't find the right good side in this proposal. The representative democracy has a long tradition with us, and there are proposals from time to time for changing it in some way throughout its duration in our modern history. Sometimes those proposals are from the left side of the political spectrum, traditionally the Communists propose, for example, that in the councils of large cities or in the councils of regions there be a proportional representation of the parties elected to the council, and that there is no need to argue about creating a proper coalition. Now comes the proposal, say, from the central or right-wing part of the political spectrum to the direct choice. Our country has made a direct choice experience, namely at the highest point in our political hierarchy. We have a directly elected president, elected by a strong majority in direct elections. The result of the election is the subject of many criticisms. Interestingly, the biggest criticisms of the directly elected president are those who were the greatest supporters and supporters of the direct elections that actually caused it. Now here we have a direct choice of mayors. Somehow it was neglected to suggest a direct choice of the captains, as my colleague Bendl mentioned. The regional law is based on exactly the same principles as the municipal law. Maybe it would be nice to vote directly for the governor. I will present my experience here, which I have in my political capacity in 25 years. A friend of mine, the mayor of a medium-sized town on the Danube, on the border with Hungary, is directly elected mayor. There are two thirds of Maďar in that town, one third of Slovák. Half the Maďar and Slovák vote for my friend Slovák Mayor. But in the election of the council, the Maďar are already convoluted and will elect a council with which, on the contrary, it is very difficult to argue on any political principles. I don't think he has any trouble communicating. The friend speaks both languages fluently, of course. Consider the example of small villages. I'm also in a conflict of interest as a colleague of Bendl. I have been a member of the Representation of the City of České Budějovice for 26 years since the very creation of this modern self-governing democracy. And I really appreciate the principle of municipal representation, the municipal government. I had the opportunity to watch, whether as the governor or as a candidate in the elections, when I circled the meetings of municipal councils, somewhere there is consensus, somewhere there is a dispute. But that's politics. Such is politics, and even in the smallest village, it is actually some kind of political decision-making, political competition. And to tell you the truth, in small villages, voters often vote for the mayor. They know which one of those list lists they're offering is the mayor's candidate. And it is by the name of this top-notch candidate that the candidates in question are making their own decisions. In fact, I think that this change in the system under way would do no good, and I join in supporting the motion to reject this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u19	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jan Zahradník, and I would like to extend my word to Mr Martin Kolovratník, Mr Martin Kolovratník, for the last time in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u20	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I am almost sorry, colleagues and colleagues, to join the strong front that is being criticized by an honored colleague of the plaintiff, but I can't help it because I feel that way. I, too, have been a representative of the regional city of Pardubice since the last elections. So maybe I, too, can put my knowledge of the subject into the debate. And maybe it's a very valuable comparison of the democracy, the system of decision-making here in the House and the municipalities in the municipal council. The arguments of colleagues who have fallen here, and they are all people with a much longer practice than I have, I can mention Ivan Adamec - the long-time mayor of Trutnov, I also took a close look at Jan Chvojka, who works similarly in Chrudim, so I have to sign these arguments and I have to agree with them. I may repeat this, but I will recall the possibility, the other system of elections to municipal councils, where people, citizens, the inhabitants of those cities can already choose directly across the different sides. Sometimes they use the term that they can so-called mix the council in their own way. [[17.20 hours]] And what is the most important argument for me is why reject this proposal. So please try to imagine the reality of this everyday practice. In the municipalities, in the cities, it is that the supreme body, the one who approves at the highest level, is not the mayor or mayor, but it is the council. It is the council of the municipal law that has the highest authority to decide and give the final verdict. And I really can't imagine in practice in that direct choice how a mayor who comes out of some actually different system and doesn't agree with his deputies, so how something like that could work. I am convinced of this, and I am right to my colleagues, that there would rather be paralysis of the decision-making process. And maybe I'll add one more thing to that. I don't like the fact that we're actually indirectly saying that politics is wrong. These politicians are bad people, political decisions are bad, they're negative. Please, let's not give these signals! It's representative democracy, or it's about representative democracy, it's about decision making, it's about political agreements and individual parties' cooperation. On the contrary, from my point of view, it is the same between the House, Parliament and individual municipalities. I will therefore be in favour of rejecting this proposal and, unfortunately, I cannot agree with it. I felt the need to say that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u21	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Deputy plaintiffs aren't interested. The rapporteur will therefore sum up the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u22	So one more good afternoon. Again, I apologize for the previous indisposition. Dear colleagues, as we have heard, my five colleagues have spoken out, who are clearly rejecting the petitioner's novel. I also expressed myself in the sense that the direct election of the mayor for a part of the municipalities, divided into a community of up to 1,500 inhabitants, and above me does not make any sense at all. Colleagues argued with other proposals about nonsense, but the wrong choice of arguments here is the direct election of mayors for municipalities up to 1,500 inhabitants. So I didn't propose rejection at first reading, but two colleagues did, so we're going to vote on rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-014-052.u23	Thank you. I've asked colleagues who had a discussion about something else to discuss in the lobby, so I'm gonna go on and sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion to reject the printing 282, which we are discussing in paragraph 52, in the following vote, which I will initiate as soon as the number of entries is settled. I can already do so. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of rejection at first reading. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 231. Of the 127 Members present for 105, against 13. The proposal was adopted, i.e. the rejection of this law was accepted. That concludes this project. I thank the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with paragraph 52. Before we go any further, I apologise to Minister Stropnický from 17.15 for working reasons until the end of the day. The next item is the item number
