ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-008-201.u1	201. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to express its consent to withdraw the reservations of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic on Article 1 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Purchase of Goods and the Revocation of the Declaration of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic on Article I of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Limitation of International Purchase of Goods /Departmental Printing 823/ - First Reading I ask the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jan Mládek, to give the opening word for the government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-008-201.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the MIT, together with the Ministry of Justice, shall submit material to the PSP of the Czech Republic, the purpose of which is to withdraw the reservations of Article 1 (1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The UN Convention on Contracts for International Purchase of Goods is one of the most widely used international treaties, since it regulates the purchase contract as the most common contractual form of economic cooperation and constitutes a global standard also in the national regulation of the international purchase contract. In the case of the purchase of goods between the Czech person and its foreign partner, which has a place of business in the Contracting State of the Convention, it is clear that the Convention applies to the purchase contract. The original reservation applied by Czechoslovakia in 1991 narrowed the application of the convention, respectively. it has prevented its use in situations where one of the contractual partners is not a body of the State which signed the Convention but refers it to the application of the Convention by private international law through reference to the law of the other State which adopted the Convention. The application of this reservation was led by concern that the national regulation of Czechoslovakia should not be replaced by the Convention at the time of the creation of relatively little known. However, the current Czech legislation is already based on the Convention itself and therefore there are no grounds to insist. The withdrawal of reservations is in line with the worldwide trend of the withdrawal of reservations to the Convention in order to simplify its application and contribute to the further extension of the unified law governing the purchase contract. The withdrawal of reservations and declarations is a technical step, which is also in line with the permanent efforts of the Czech Republic to eliminate obstacles and approximation of legislation in the field of international trade, which leads to a decrease in transaction costs for entrepreneurs and a simplification of the legal environment. The withdrawal of reservations shall not entail any additional costs or costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-008-201.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, and before I ask for the rapporteur's word, we must vote on the rapporteur's amendment, because Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová was to be rapporteur for first reading, but the foreign committee proposes a change of rapporteur to Mr Leo Luzar. We will decide on the amendment of the rapporteur in the vote number 117, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, of the 121 Members present for 93, against no one. There has been a change in the rapporteur, and I therefore ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Leo Luzar to present his intelligence report. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-008-201.u4	Thank you for the floor. In my intelligence report, I will refer to the opening words of the Minister, who, in my opinion, very cleverly explained what is going on in this Convention and why it is being presented for today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-008-201.u5	Thank you for the news report and I am opening up a debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the conversation. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 118, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118, 122 Members present for 99 against no one. The motion was accepted. We have therefore decided that the Government's proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 201. The next item is:
