ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (the Health Services Act), as amended (the House Press 614/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček will present this bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, and let me briefly remind you of the purpose of the current government bill amending the Health Services Act. The proposed amendment regulates the Health Services Act in particular in the scope of the definition of the National Health Information System, as well as the NHIS. This legislation was adopted in particular because it was necessary to clarify the existing NHIS legislation in terms of purpose and content so that it was clearly clear that the data collected were used and that they were protected against possible misuse according to the current requirements of cyber security. The proposed modifications require an ever-increasing need for quality data for relevant management of Czech health care, capacity planning and, last but not least, for the implementation of really effective systems for evaluation of quality of care. [[18.40 hours]] At the outset, I must stress that the NZIS does not originate with this amendment, on the contrary, it has been working for decades, such as the National Cancer Register since 1976. During the entire existence of NZIS is not known the only security incident in the leak or misuse of personal sensitive data. The submitted amendment modernizes NZIS primarily in order to obtain the opportunity to analyse already available data, such as health insurance companies, and did not have to collect them redundantly in other systems and burden administrative staff. In addition to partial refinements, the definition of the NHIS administrator is changed. The current legislation allows several entities to be entrusted with the management of individual components. It is therefore proposed that the NHIS should have one administrator by law, namely the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. The proposed legislation further specifies certain health registers established under the Health Services Act, which are part of the NHIS, and as part of the NHIS, new national health registers are added, namely the National Diabetological Register and the National Intensive Care Register. In addition to the registers already mentioned, a National Register of Health Services and a National Register of Health Workers are also established. By setting them up, we want to fill a white space in the area of data availability for evaluation of the quality of care and also build the necessary data base for optimization of the healthcare payment system. Amendment to Act No. 372 will thus bring the necessary independent control of the public finances that we place in the healthcare system and allow transparent and data-based analysis and optimisation of payment mechanisms. We will get a data base for assessing the quality of care without increasing the administrative burden of health professionals. Of course, there must be a great emphasis on data security and protection. I want to assure everyone that the Ministry pays great attention to this issue. IHIS in the management of NHIS is proceeding fully in accordance with Act No. 101 on the protection of personal data, in accordance with Act 181 on Cyber Security, where NHIS is conducted as an important information system. The proposed amendment to the Health Services Act is clearly subject to these general legislation, so there is no concern that data processing would get out of control. After all, they are already processing the data of the health insurance company itself, and the submitted amendment does not create any completely new mechanism. NIS security systems in data management are subject to regular audit. Last year, the IHIS was repeatedly examined and found identical to the requirements of ISO 9001 and ISO 27001, an internationally valid standard that defines the requirements for the information security management system. The Ministry of Health wants to continue to do this as openly as possible. The NHIS is now being set up by a supervisory ethics board, which will monitor all steps in the development of information systems, their security and data analysis. Representatives of the health committees of the two chambers of Parliament, experts of the Office for Personal Data Protection and eGovernment have already promised participation in this Council. The NHIS control will thus be completely transparent and will not only be a matter of the Ministry of Health. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the Government's bill to be very important and necessary in terms of ensuring the NHIS's activities, and I therefore believe that you will support this government proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The resolution was delivered to you as House Press 614/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Pavel Antonín, to inform you of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Guarantee Committee has discussed the bill and issued 19. 11. 2015 resolution delivered to Members as press 614/1 with three amendments - two proposals by Mr Brázdil and one by Mrs Pastuchová, to which I added today under number 3585 in the system the fourth amendment to which I will then sign up in the debate. Mr Brázdil's two amendments concern - one person to be informed about education and qualifications acquired, that the Chamber of Medicine should also be informed as one of the participants in this meeting; The second concerns the examination of the dead in the field. Mrs Pastuchová's amendment is one specific condition which should also be followed in this law. My amendment, which I adopted after the meeting of the Ministry with insurance companies, specifies the system of monitoring the specific data that can be monitored in the system, because some data have been found that it would not be possible to trace, because insurance companies, for example, have flat-rate contracts, so that the data can be accurately traced and stored, so they are specified in this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Jana Pastuchová joined first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, I would like to focus more on improving the quality of emergency pre-hospital and hospital care for critically ill patients in relation to the Health Services Act. Sudden circulation arrest is a critical situation whose successful solution in the form of resuscitation is conditioned by the correct and rapid response of the rescue system. The quality of resuscitation is even considered to be one of the most important indicators of the quality of rescue services' work. In this respect, it is essential to monitor key parameters associated with sudden circulation arrest and resuscitation, including monitoring of the neurological condition of patients after the event. Their treatment is usually involved in more medical facilities and the completion of all data is very difficult. Therefore, I consider it very desirable, and not only I, there have been international recommendations since 1997 to establish a National Register of Pre-hospital Sudden Circuits and a National Registry of Hospital Sudden Circuits. The existence of such registers would make it much easier, more precisely, to implement the above-mentioned monitoring, including the possibility of mutual national and international comparisons. I believe that establishing a register would have a positive impact on the quality of emergency pre-hospital and hospital care for critically ill. My proposal is part of an amendment that I will apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u7	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would like to explain what is going on in this bill. I have been following this law for a long time since 2008, when it actually first appeared. Those laws were not discussed in the House at the time. And first, as today's National Health Information System is enshrined in the bill, this occurred in 2011 by approving the Health Services Act. However, the system was never functional and its effects could not be assessed. Following the approval of this bill in 2011, this law, respectively. one part attacked by the Constitutional Court, namely the register of health workers, the Constitutional Court annulled this part of the Act. [[18.50 hours]] I want to explain what the danger of this proposal is, as it is put forward. To let you know what is collected, so as to process personal data in the National Health Information System according to paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) shall be transmitted without the consent of the data subject, i.e. without the consent of the patient, unless otherwise specified, data which are, if the subject of the patient's data: 1. the information needed to identify him, namely the number of the insured person, if he is assigned, or the birth number, if that number is not the insured person, or the date of birth, if the birth number is not assigned, the name of the municipality and, where applicable, the name of the town or district, the address of the permanent residence and, in the case of foreigners, the address of the place of residence and citizenship; 2. data relating to its state of health in relation to the disease and its treatment, in particular sociodemographic and diagnostic, personal, family and occupational history of the patient related to the disease, including an assessment of his current state of health, data on the provision of health services to the patient, information on the pursuit of the profession or occupation, and, where appropriate, on the performance of the service needed to assess the patient's health status; 3. the identification details of the provider who provided the health services, including the department and workplace; 4. the identification details of the last employer in whom the patient in whom the occupational disease was established last worked under the conditions under which the occupational disease was created, the provider of the data referred to in Section 74 (1) (a) of the Act of Accession. 1) Medical Officer of the data referred to in § 76 (1) (a) In the case of health services provided by a health service provider and a person providing health services pursuant to Section 20, the information referred to in Section 74 (1) shall be provided by the provider of social services and by the person providing health services in accordance with Section 20. 2. Well, that's for an idea of what it's all about. The National Health Information System, which is to be the central repository of all detailed information on the health, social and employment of each patient citizen. Upon approval of this Act in this form, data from all medical registers and all medical reports, together with birth numbers at the Office for Health Information and Statistics, are to be collected. I would like to ask, Minister, for an explanation of why all sensitive data, for example, on psychological problems, urological, sexual problems, abortions, simply about everything recorded in the medical documentation, including residence and birth number, must be sent to one place, and how these data will help to address quality, availability, safety, optimization of care and optimization of the network of providers, as stated in the explanatory report. Where is the law establishing the status of the technical operator of the system and its employees and the associated protection of sensitive data? How will individual sensitive data be particularly legally protected from abuse? How will persons who allow access to registers have an obligation to assess the adequacy of the provision of personal data to others in relation to the information self-determination of persons? How will patients have access to all their personal data to be processed under the law? I mean, it's processed without the patient's consent, but according to the bill, the patient won't even get to the information that's being kept on them. Why is the health information system not governed by the same strict rules as other basic registers? Why are existing data from health insurance companies not used to manage the economy? Why is it necessary for the new DRG to link all information about the state of health, social and working history exclusively with the birth numbers and not with other anonymity identifiers? Why is it now necessary to quickly and rapidly approve the House's 614 press to connect all databases with each other, and only then within two years to prepare a quality special NHIS law as described in the letter from the Office for Personal Data Protection? Don't you think that in the case of NZIS, the same regime as for other registers must be the same as for the Basic Register Act? That the agenda and data management must be separated? The Basic Registry Act determines the definitions of the registry and the scope of the data collected, the links between the agendas, the data access log, the agenda administrator and, inter alia, the record keeping of events related to the operation of health registers. It must be obvious who, when, what and for what purpose he did in the data system. I had an opinion from the Parliamentary Institute in 2011 on a law that was adopted as Minister Heger, and the proposal was already negative and was very critical of him by the Office for Personal Data Protection, with which this proposal was not consulted at all. I've had a new opinion from the Parliamentary Institute on the current text we got to the House. In it is described, briefly I will introduce you to this, it is the answer to the question about the constitutionality of personal data protection according to the amendment and the whole of the Health Services Act, in the light of the finding the file mark Pl. ÚS 1/12, House Press 614, prepared by the Parliamentary Institute, Dr. Syllová Syllová, in November 2015. A. Purpose of legal regulation. The amendment changes the comprehensive National National Information System, so-called NHIS. Until now, NHIS has not been put into practice. Following the adoption of the amendment, it is assumed that it will only now be really created. B. Assessment of NHIS as a uniform summary of data in terms of personal data protection, including sensitive data. It should be noted that the constitutional situation has changed substantially since the potential creation of the NHIS in 2011. The Constitutional Court issued a finding file mark Pl. ÚS 1/12, which is essentially determining for the assessment of the amendment of the law. The Constitutional Court summarizes the findings that are based both on its own leaders and, in particular, on the principles according to which a directive of the European Union is drawn up which is binding on the Czech Republic and whose main purpose is to prevent unauthorised data connection in data systems. In particular, the Constitutional Court notes that any individual restriction on the right to information self-determination, which means the right of a person, i.e. the data subject, to have his/her own personal data, must be solely for the purpose of protecting another constitutional right or achieving a constitutionally and constitutionally charged public property, which must be determined by law, in a manner consistent with the requirements arising from the rule of law. At the same time, in view of the purpose pursued, it must stand up for proportionality. Furthermore, in the obiter dictum the Constitutional Court pronounces an uncovered sceptical approach and doubts about NHIS itself, as amended in the previous version of the Act, Article 321. In conclusion, the Constitutional Court recalls that in this procedure it did not examine the constitutionality of the legislation of the National Health Information System as a whole, but only looked at certain aspects of those provisions relating to the National Health Workers' Registry. Therefore, this finding does not constitute, beyond the scope of this review, an obstacle to Section 70 to 78 of the Health Services Act, and therefore nothing prevents the parties or any other legitimate appellant from submitting a new proposal against those provisions in which they specify the reasons for their annulment. The Constitutional Court is aware that the collection and processing of personal data on the health of patients without their consent constitutes a very intensive intervention in their fundamental rights and that, in this respect, specially strict requirements should be laid down on the legal arrangements, in particular as regards the purpose for which such data is to be collected and processed, the scope of such data, the circle of persons to have access to such data and the purpose of such access, the period for which they are to be processed, and the assurance that there is no unauthorised access or misuse, including measures for the subsequent control of the handling of such data. [[19.00 hours]] In this sense, such an adjustment must be made in relation to all personal data subject to processing. It is therefore desirable that the law, when adopting the new legislation of the National Register of Health Workers, carefully consider the extent to which other registers, i.e. the other registers forming the National Health Information System, will meet these aspects and, by their timely intervention, remove any deficiencies that might lead to breaches of the rights of patients, health workers or other persons to information self-determination. In the light of these guidelines, the amendment of the law must be considered at present. If the amendment fails openly to comply with the above, the Constitutional Court will regard it as a violation of its leaders, which are not a positive law, but have its unforgettable precedent. It is very difficult to assess NHIS as a whole. For this reason, it should be based on the methodology established by the Constitutional Court, hidden under the observation that any individual restriction of a person must be proportionate to the purpose laid down in the Law. Some personal data, which will be made available through NZIS to certain persons, have been selected for the assessment of constitutionality and their protection has been assessed and, where appropriate, the effectiveness of making them available. The purposes of NZIS are set out in § 70 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), reference to footnote 1. The purpose of NHIS is to identify the health status of the population, the survey economically (?) medical facilities, influencing health services payments, transparency and effectiveness of the provision of health services, evaluation of the quality of services. These purposes must necessarily require any information contained in the NHIS which will not be provided with the consent of the entity, including those provided to the NHIS by other entities, in particular from the information systems of the state administration, § 71. In addition, the NIS may provide information from public administration information systems to other entities, e.g. Insurance companies, etc., § 71 para. 12, which must also be taken into account in the assessment of the necessity of the individual data contained in the NHIS. Examples of assessment of selected individual data. First example of a person's autopsy. It's an annex to the law. It is included in the National Register of Autopsy and Toxicology examinations carried out in the Department of Medical Medicine. It contains the personal data necessary to identify the deceased, death, etc. Annex 10 to the Act. This register will be part of NZIS. Act and Decree 116/2012 Coll. it is specified which data it retains and when it is to be transmitted. Neither by law nor by decree is it specified for which purposes and who has access to personal, mostly sensitive data from this registry, nor when this registry is linked to NHIS. In accordance with the privacy principles, it is necessary to ensure for each data that it is transmitted to the person concerned only if the purpose of the transfer corresponds to the characteristics of the data provided in respect of proportionality. The protection of data from this register will be legally made by a decision of the statistical institute, i.e. by the fact that the statistical institute does not provide data to a person for whom it does not recognise the proportionality of the purpose of the provision of the data, in accordance with Section 73 para. 3. The protection is governed by the following words: The Statistical Institute shall communicate to the authorised entity the scope of access rights to personal and other data kept in the relevant health register. If the statistical institute does not establish access to personal data, it shall inform the requesting body of the reasons for this. It follows from the above that it is not possible by law to read under which conditions and for which purpose an indication of a particular person is protected by law and under which conditions and to whom it can be transmitted. In addition, by linking the system, the number of persons who will have direct access to such sensitive personal data without requiring the purpose of the NHIS database shall be substantially extended. There is no reason to know the personal data of the deceased if health policy and health efficiency are monitored. For this purpose, information without personal data will suffice. Second example. Address of the place of permanent or registered residence and date of birth of the natural person. Data on the provider whose authorisation has been decided by the Ministry, § 74 para. 3 of the draft law. These data were decided by the Constitutional Court that they must not be published directly on the Ministry of Health's website. The protection assessed by the amendment to the Act is laid down on the one hand in § 74 para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the 3. It follows from both that the persons referred to in Article 73 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty are not entitled to benefit from an economic advantage within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. This data shall be provided at all times without a decision by the statistical institute. This follows from the word "accessible. " This information shall be provided to other persons upon request pursuant to § 73 para. 3. The question arises as to whether the potential accessibility of these data in the law to a virtually unlimited circle of persons is not the same as the publication on the Ministry's website, which was, however, identified by the Constitutional Court as incompatible. As regards persons to whom data are provided pursuant to § 74 para. 3, it is not stipulated anywhere in the law that the data must be provided in the light of the proportionality of the applicant's interest, nor is it guaranteed in any way, as in the previous example. Partial conclusion on examples. It follows from examining two randomly selected individual personal data - only two - that the law does not sufficiently protect the information self-determination of persons, even in the case of sensitive data. This is due to the fact that the protection of individual data is not specifically processed into the law, but that the data are quite inappropriately legislatively combined in such a way that they cannot be individually protected by legislation, even sensitive data. Also, persons who allow access to the register have no established obligation to assess the proportionality of the assessment of personal data to others in relation to the informational self-determination of persons, which is required by the Constitutional Court. C. Assessment of the concept of the administrator and NHIS operator in terms of the exercise of public authority. It is now apparent from the law that the NHIS database administrator will be the organisational component of the state, i.e. the UHIS, Institute for Health Information and Statistics. It will perform state administration in the area of the National Health Information System. From this point of view, the law is amended and somewhat refined, thus specifying the circle of people with direct access to data. However, it is unclear, and I stress this, what the status of a technical operator will be. Since this is not mentioned in the Law at all, the protection of the operator and of the operator's employees cannot be assessed in any way in this assessment, it is therefore considered missing. The protection of personal data is a fundamental right laid down in the Charter. Restrictions and other handling of fundamental rights are possible only by law and by law, as provided for in Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. 2 of the Charter. From this point of view, it should be noted that it would be appropriate for the legal status of the operator and his staff to be specified in the law as expressly required by the Personal Data Protection Act. D. Access of the entity to personal data, i.e. about the patient. Personal Data Protection Act No. 101/2000 Sb. provides for the processing of sensitive data as follows: It is permissible to process sensitive data without the consent of the data subject in the case of processing in the provision of healthcare, the protection of public health, health insurance and the performance of the state administration in the field of health under a special law or the assessment of health status in other cases provided for by a special law. This exemption therefore covers the health database within the scope of the special law. At the same time, it is not necessary to inform the data subject that his data are processed because the processing of data imposed by a special law by the controller or that such personal data is necessary to exercise the rights and obligations arising from a specific law is not necessary to inform the data subject. However, the data subject has the right to access information on the processing of his personal data. This is mentioned in Section 12 of Act 101/2000 Coll. [[19.10 hours]] The law under consideration does not imply that the data subject, i.e. the patient, has access to all his data, personal data which are processed under the law. This aspect should be added to parts of the law which do not reflect it, otherwise it is not possible to comply with the foundations of the information self-determination of persons according to the principles set out in the finding above. E. Protection in respect of technical specifications. Act protecting personal data, Section 13 et seq. of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., stipulates that the controller and processor are obliged to take such measures that unauthorised or accidental access to, alteration, destruction or loss of personal data, unauthorised transmission, other unauthorised processing, as well as other misuse of personal data cannot occur. This obligation applies even after the processing of personal data is completed. In order to be able to create an NIS database, it is necessary by law to adopt the parameters of the technical specification of data protection, otherwise the legislator cannot in any way assess whether the security is sufficient. At a time when the method of security is not clear, it is possible, instead, to state basic achievable parameters in the law which would allow technical protection to be assessed by the legislator. F. Overall conclusion. The amended law regulates the overall purpose of NHIS better than the existing wording. However, even after the amendment, some parameters of the protection of the fundamental rights of the person's information self-determination are not sufficiently specified in the law, as required by the Constitutional Court in the abovementioned judgment. The law remains to a large extent a little precise framework that allows the creation of any national health information system. For this reason, its wording is by way of some circumvention of the powers of the legislature, which is obliged to protect personal data, which is a fundamental human right, itself, in the light of the Charter, to guarantee and adjust positively by law. In addition, the amendment and the Act as a whole have a partial constitutional order incompatible with the shortcomings referred to above. In view of the quoted decision of the Constitutional Court, which is implicitly very critical of NHIS, we recommend either to revise the above mentioned aspects or to prepare a special law on the preparation of NHIS which would enable work to be done on the establishment of the system and on the specification of its safeguards and which would not endanger the personal data of the persons concerned. Following the creation of the skeleton of the database, a definitive law could be adopted that would regulate the protection in detail in the law and allow the system to be implemented without endangering fundamental human rights. This legislative procedure would also be safer for NZIS processors, who are currently at risk of being abolished by the Constitutional Court due to the shortcomings of the law. On the other hand, it is clear that, in view of the intended purpose, the overall intention of the NHIS is necessary in the light of the Constitutional Court's recommendations on public goods and that the overall intention to implement the system does not show the parameters of constitutional compatibility. But that's the intention, not the implementation of the law. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I also received the opinion of health insurance companies associated with the Association of Health Insurance Companies, which is negative on this proposal. In principle, I was assured that health insurance companies were involved in a commentary procedure, but health insurance companies said that there was no need to create a new database and that it was possible to use the data in the health insurance companies and that the Ministry, or ÚHIS, could take this information from these insurance companies. There's no reason to create a new database and also connect it with the birth numbers. For the new DRG system, it is not necessary to link specific medical data with birth numbers. Clinical information for case classification, for inclusion in DRG group, here with data source data are transmitted to health insurance companies, so-called k-doses. Furthermore, economic parameters of selected reference hospitals for setting relative weights. This is what is necessary for the new DRG restart system. I'll try to sum up what I've been trying to tell you from the quote. At the Constitutional Court, a possible complainant must win with a clear argument that the law must actually regulate protection, it cannot be described, for example, in decrees or in other sub-laws. It is the protection of Parliament and its powers, please note that. If you approve the law, you will allow the creation of any database, any form of the national health system. If the law becomes effective, there will be a link between databases with birth numbers without showing how data protection is ensured with all risks to 10 million citizens. Although the law in which the National Health Information System is currently enshrined applies from 1 April 2011, this system does not work in practice, so data protection cannot be assessed when it is not. If the system isn't connected, it's not even protected. My recommendation to the House, in a detailed debate, I propose that the House press 614 be rejected. I can no longer return the petitioner to work, it was only possible at first reading. What's next on purpose? Rework the existing part of Act No. 372/2012 Coll., on NHIS and Health Registers, with a view to the consistent protection of medical confidentiality and privacy of information society patients, in cooperation with the Czech Medical Chamber as a professional organisation ensuring the ethics of the performance of the medical profession. Three. As regards the payment register, no specific legislation is required. Provisions on the control of health insurance activities by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance may be applied. It's Section 7 of Law No. 280/1992 Coll., on occupational insurance companies, § 8 of Act No. 551/1991 Sb., o VZP. This is due to the obligation of insurance companies to transfer payment data to both ministries. For this, information on the cost of care, reference prices of medicines or devices can be used, which the Ministry of Health can easily detect in administrative proceedings from the activities of its directly controlled hospitals or other public hospitals. This data is sufficient and easily available. In the past, not only the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic worked with them, but also the National Reference Centre, 1. LF UK or Institute of Postgraduate Health Education. Four. If even a payment register requires limited amounts - I say limited amounts - of non-anonymous data, such as patient movements between hospitals, appropriate legal authorisation may be created for this. However, this may be substantially narrower and therefore significantly less involved in medical confidentiality than the all-inclusive variant proposed in the Houses of Print 614. So much for my comment on this bill. I will then sign up in a detailed debate on the motion for rejection. I would like the Minister to answer the questions that I have already raised at the meetings on Thursday and now I have actually repeated them. I beg you to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u9	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go any further, Mrs Marková will be overtaken by the chairman of the TOP 09 Club with priority rights. But I will also ask him for a little patience, because my colleague, Milan Šarapatka, apologizes for today's meeting from 19 o'clock to the end of the day. Now with priority right Chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u10	Thank you. After this fabulous performance please on behalf of TOP 09 for a break of one hour forty-two minutes. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-006-016.u11	You didn't make it easy for me today, Mr. Chairman. Before I call for a break, I note that in the general debate - for the rapporteur - there was a motion to reject Mr Hovorka, who was voted at the beginning of the third reading. So now there's nothing to vote on. I interrupt paragraph 16 in the general debate when the first speaker in the general debate is Mrs Soňa Marková. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I wish you a good evening and we will meet tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. with the rules of procedure that we will have a block of third readings from this morning, point 143, the Higher Education Act, and then we will continue with other points in the third reading block, respectively after the third reading block of the first reading. Have a good evening again.
