ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 959/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me to present to you the Government's proposal for a law on pedagogical workers and other amendments to the related regulations, also sometimes called the Code of Care. This is the career order of teachers for which the teacher public has been waiting for a long time. It is also the fulfillment of the Government's programming declaration or the Czech Education Policy Strategy by 2020 or the long-term purpose of education for the period 2015 to 2020. We also follow OECD recommendations to the Czech Republic, which lack such a system in the long term. The main principle of the amendment is to introduce further opportunities for professional and specialisation development of teachers and teachers and thus ensure the future not only the entry of future new teachers into this profession, but also sufficient motivation for existing teachers. At the same time, we are introducing a three-stage standard of teacher based on the professional competences of the teacher and their gradation towards the growing quality of the teacher's work. The standard of the teacher has three areas, namely personal professional development, the area of own pedagogical activity and the area of cooperation and participation in the development of the school. According to the government proposal, each starting teacher will be assigned to the first career degree and will have to undergo a two-year adaptation period. Its aim is to adapt the teacher to the conditions of pedagogical practice and to adapt the knowledge acquired in the undergraduate preparation in practice in schools. The evaluation will take place at the end of the adaptation period, so-called the certification procedure. With regard to a separate teacher, teachers will thus become teachers after they have carried out this certification procedure, or also all teachers who have since 1. 9. 2017 have a practice of more than two years. As regards successful completion of the certification procedure between the independent teacher and so-called an excellent teacher, so this is already a voluntary matter for those teachers and teachers who choose this professional path to acquire excellent didactic competences in the field or subject and will also be interested in passing this ability on to other colleagues and colleagues both at school and within the entire education system. A successful career procedure will also mean a higher financial evaluation, both for independent teachers after they become independent through the certification procedure, i.e. unsupported through the teacher's presentation, and consequently in the case of excellent teachers, where the certification procedure is more systemic in nature and the test committee consists not only of colleagues within the school, but also of colleagues from practice or academic workplaces. We also introduce a number of new specialization activities, which are a little bit new, because we have been inspired especially by the practice that exists in some schools, is verified and also verified as good, and it is for example. the position of guidance counselor or career advisor. I would like to say that, on the one hand, the career order has tried to inspire the steps that have been taken in various projects testing different career systems, as we know them in Europe, and we have also responded to criticism from teachers who were interested in making the career order as much as possible turn towards them, it has been as practical as possible, reduced the administrative burden and reduced the risk of becoming a system of stamps and proof, but that it will be a system that will support the teacher in the context of professional and specialisation development through the experience gained and will develop them and be beneficial to them. Finally, I would like to say that there have been several negotiations concerning the finding of consensus across the political spectrum. And in advance, I would like to report that the timetable that we have prepared for possible discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, if you release this proposal for a government bill through first reading, corresponds to the outputs of this meeting, because it was the wish of Members and Members to give us sufficient time, at least 90 days between first and second reading. We have prepared and forwarded such a timetable to our colleagues within the school committee across the various political parties. I would like to stress that we have enough time here for a thorough discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is prepared to work on individual subjects of Members and Members, while there is no reason for this timetable for an official extension of the deadline between first and second reading to 90 days. If Members or Members consider such an extension, i.e. the official way to 90 days, then I would just like to politely point out that we will swing from the point of view of the finalization of the career order until June next year, which could jeopardise the overall start of the career order. I would therefore like to ask the Members and Members to consider the timetable that came out of this work meeting and to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this government bill, with the fact that if supported, we will manage to change the funding of schools, increase the education budget and, at the same time, introduce a career order. I would very much like us to find a political consensus on this across the political spectrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, the Minister has introduced the Law on Career Regulations here, a law amending Law 563, the Law on Educational Workers. The subject of the career order has been discussed in this country for a long time and there are various proposals. And since nothing is ever hidden in the Czech Republic, these proposals have been made in various ways among the pedagogical public over the years, and we often learn that this career order is terrible, that they will only be looking for stamps and people will fly after training etc. But these are expressions or expressions of people who did not get acquainted with the final form of the career order, as prepared by the current Ministry of Education. I would say that, after years, we have material that really doesn't focus on just one segment in pedagogical practice, such as the director, but most importantly, it points to the person who is essential in the pedagogical process, and it is the most important of them, aimed at teachers, didactics, a teacher who raises and shapes the personality of our children. The Minister also outlined the timetable in which it is to be discussed. I would like to thank the Ministry of Education in advance that it is expected in this timetable, which we have also done when discussing changes in regional education funding, namely the negotiation of this law and the acceptance of comments in the field among teachers, among teachers. I think that's the only way we can create a standard that can be taken as their own. [[15.20 hours]] Finally, I would just like to sum up what I think this career order brings. Career order brings three things. First, it sets out three spaces in which the teacher can move during his career. Secondly, it ensures that this division is reflected in the real world by guaranteeing the necessary finances, without which the inclusion of teachers in career posts would be pointless. Thirdly, it provides a system of continuous assistance to beginners during their first two years of practice. On the other hand, the career rules do not in any way interfere with the personal evaluation and other incentive mechanisms available to the head of the school facility. For once again it must be said that these are two parallel but different systems, and it would be a big mistake if the existence of a career order were to reduce the powers of school management. I think we're going to have a lot of debate about this standard here, and I would hate to have this legislative change downplayed, if we were to look at it as many people look at it -- well, yeah, it's a teacher again. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of one thing. Change in regional education funding, firstly, an increase in the budget of the education chapter by 13.5 billion. for 2017 second and now the career order are three fundamental things that can move Czech education forward. And we have them here at a moment that-- maybe you think I won't be right, but it's alarming. I spoke yesterday in my parliamentary office with two primary school principals who are in a desperate situation because they can't get qualified teachers. They want young people. But once a young colleague who teaches three or four years at school shows up in the principal's office after three or four years, they're terrified because they're like, "Well, he's either on maternity leave and he's not coming back, or I can tell he's quitting." Really getting a first-rate teacher or a second-grade elementary class is starting to be a problem today. So these three basic points that I said here, an increase in the budget, a change in regional education funding and a career order, is what we can at least do for education right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u5	I thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate in which I record three applications. First to the microphone of Mr Junek, Mrs Nováková and Mrs Semelová will be ready after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, before we discuss the career order, I would just like to point out briefly and briefly the possible marginality from the point of view of this whole standard, but this is specifically Section 133 with the name of an extra education worker, namely the supplements to class teachers. These are currently regulated by Government Regulation No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration. Now, however, in this amendment, it is proposed to introduce these bonuses directly into the law, which in itself I am not sure if it is the ideal condition, because, possibly, for any increase in funds for the classroom, I always open the law, I do not know if it is good. But so be it. What I don't think is quite right is that there is a difference in the amount for the classroom for the teachers of the first grade and for the teachers of the second grade. It is now proposed that the premium for the first grade teachers should remain the same, i.e. 400 to 1,000 crowns, and for teachers of the second grade, a surcharge is proposed to increase to 1000 to 2 000 crowns. So when we talk about the career order, the motivation of teachers, etc., I ask if this is a step in the right direction and whether this is a fair thing. Of course, the argument that a second grade teacher has more work to do than a first grade teacher is probably not the right one is somewhat odd. Of course, we can argue about who has more work to do, whether teachers in the first degree or in the second grade. We could discuss this for a long time. I don't want to get involved. But after all, some three basic arguments. I think a first-grade teacher spends time with his students when he doesn't spend more, so I'm sure he spends the same time as the second-grade teacher. He spends all small and sometimes large breaks with them, before teaching with them solves their small domestic problems, etc., which pupils must certainly tell him before teaching, and after teaching with them solves such small things as cleaning, etc. etc. The other argument. I think that all the documents must be filled out by a class teacher in the first degree just like the one in the second grade. The range is the same, he's just as busy with it, etc. etc. So there's absolutely no difference. In addition, the first-degree teacher is far greater than a second-degree teacher providing communication with a pedagogical-psychological counseling in the investigation of his pupils, and at the second-level, most of the pupils are already diagnosed. And the third argument. I think if we have, for example. school, where it is first and second degrees, and at the first level we have a class of thirty pupils, at the second level the class can also be only by 17 pupils, so it is certainly unfair that the teacher at the first level should have a lower fee for the classroom than the one at the second grade, which has half of the pupils than the teacher at the first level. So it's just some supportive arguments that I think should encourage the extra to be equalized so that it's the same for all class teachers. I'd like us to have some fun here, or if there's an explanation, or if there's an explanation. Talk about it on the committees, change it somehow. But maybe the secretary will fix me up and tell me what the whole thing was meant to be. But I'm saying, I'd like it to straighten out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And please get to Mrs Nováková's microphone, Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments. I am glad that in several of the discussions that we have had, Members of all political parties, with the Minister, it has been made clear that it is indeed necessary to extend the period between first and second reading to the maximum, even if it has its difficulties. Because we count on second reading at the turn of February and March, and in the meantime not only will Christmas take place, but will also take place spring break etc. and such a finish at the end of the first semester, so for real real field work, in which we really would all have to participate, there won't be much time and it will have to be really very, very intense. When the rapporteur here said that a positive change in education should fit in, that there should be an increase in the budget, a change in funding and a career order, I would like to point out that these things are right. But when one of them does wrong, especially the change in funding and the career order, and in both of these changes, it will not be considered comprehensively about the school as an organism, as a living organism, so it may not automatically bring about a positive change in education. Like the change in funding. If we talk about changing funding and at the same time do not make it clear that we are aware that x months ago we approved an inclusion that cannot be positive if we do not make a deliberate reduction in the number of pupils in the classroom, then here we are already bumping into a change in the funding of education that we are not doing this here consistently at all. [[15.30 hours]] And just like when we're talking about the career order, it can't go down on any tables that... Let's not be illusioned. Teachers have a very difficult field work and they really do get a red dot and a star and jumped in a table and got a thousand crowns more or two thousand crowns more - is that really motivational enough? If we are to make a good change, and this is the transition to qualification levels within teachers, which TOP 09 has supported in the long term, then we must not forget one major phase. We can't say that we're going to do some testing or a process where we're going to properly assess whether the teacher is growing methodically, whether he's growing in his professional capacity, whether he's growing in understanding how his work is in the context of the school or in the context of the city, but we still have to take that first step. If anyone is to grow, they must know how they were originally. This means that without the teachers getting support in that they actually do their own work first, that someone tells them these are your strengths, these are your weaknesses, and here you're supposed to get better, and here you are excellent, here just don't forget it, just don't stop developing, so without this step, how is the teacher supposed to develop properly? Then I dare - and without the sense of personal development of the teacher, everyone really wants it, believe me, every teacher wants it, so without this internal driving engine, the career order sucks. Fortunately, the Minister knows that the transition to the career order cannot be done without restoring the regional network of methodological and educational centres, which we have managed to completely devastate, that network has been de facto destroyed. So it won't go without it either. And I would like to draw attention to a few, say, details that we may be able to deal with in the second reading of amendments. Every time there's a transitional period, teachers who are already there find themselves at the same school, teachers who start new, so-called college knowledge recharges, and these teachers - one of them goes through several years and then submit to the certification procedure, and the other has the so-called. By holding on because he just stayed at that school. Perhaps here we will miss the moment when the director - and this may be another weakness of what we should be talking about - could actually set up a teaching body so that he can have someone there he really needs in the living system of the school. The other thing is called. the reporter. This is a worker who, if he is to help someone as a starting teacher, must establish a partnership with him, must have enough time for him. And there is no way he can do that if he has a full-time full-time full-time period of direct teaching activity. Of course, we can also count on him to spend his free time, and instead of reducing the number of hours of direct teaching, we can somehow value him more financially. This is, of course, individual. But this is one weakness. And then. We should not go through the process of approving this law unless the Ministry clearly gives us a picture of the competences, responsibilities and position of the Director as such. In doing so, I must commend, virtually. I am very well-convented and also to colleagues from TOP 09 that the director is not considered manager of any type, but that the director is a person who, in addition to being a good teacher, still has managerial skills. Well, I appreciate that. That's clearly what the novel's coming out of. Well, in conclusion, maybe just say what I was suggesting a while ago. Let's not be illusioned that teachers want to get some stripes, stars, be methodologies, coordinators, etc. Those who need prevention methodologies need maximum support and a large reduction in the number of direct pedagogical activities, as well as educational advisors. But teachers need what they've wanted for years and what they're constantly disappointed about. In addition to being financially valued, they need to be able to continue to educate themselves and really continue to educate so as to make it meaningful for them, growing in expertise. The second line of further education must be in the field of psychology, development psychology, because today's teachers are in a completely different terrain than teachers were 15 years ago. And the third thing is, it's also clear. A teacher must not be a child in a relationship between a parent and a teacher, where the parent shows him that he is a client, and the teacher does not really know even, does not have sufficient legal knowledge to know where his rights are, where his duties are, but at the same time, this may also bring about a career order and discussion about it, also discussing where the rights are, but also the responsibilities of parents. I hope this will be such a side effect of an extensive discussion around the amendment of the law on pedagogical workers, so-called. shortened the career order, which will also bring it. I am a little skeptical not to the number of days, I know we will fill it, but to what particular days, which weeks we have reserved in the winter months, and I strongly appeal to the Ministry to do the utmost to ensure that we Members are convinced that this is being discussed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u9	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, my colleague Nina Nováková. With a point of fact, Mr Karel Rais and Mrs Marta Semelová are now making a point. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u10	Have a good day. Of course, I like the noble idea of the Ministry and the Minister as regards linking the career order with the pay grade. I think one of the ways is really to increase the social seriousness of teachers by increasing salaries, and that's by increasing wages significantly, so that's okay. But when we talk about the career order too, this lineage, I would make it a triangle, and I would draw attention to the increase in bureaucracy in schools. In this context, I would point out that the real directors, when they are in contact with them, are crying quite a lot about the huge increase in bureaucracy. So I would quite like to have a discussion in the course of further discussions as well as a reduction in red tape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u11	I thank Mr Rais. Mrs Marta Semelová, who is now duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the career order of teachers is a subject that appeared here years ago and has never been dragged to appear here in the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that I completely agree with what my colleague Nina Nováková said here that a good teacher wants to teach, not to create some paperwork, some portfolios, documents and more and more. He just wants to be in the classroom, work with his pupils, devote himself to them on the educational side and on the side they need to consult with their own lives. [[15.40 hours]] Of course, a career order cannot be built on its own. He is closely related to funding, as has already been said here, because the career order of teachers in itself will not bring us to education any more new teachers who would want to make further certifications. However, the financing of both the salaries of teachers and non-teachers, because the school is one subject where they complement each other, is of course very important. It is also important to prepare for teaching faculties and other universities that prepare school teachers, where this is, of course, reflected in the overall view of teachers and the prestige they have. I don't think the prestige of teachers is just a question of the Ministry of Education, but it's a question of the whole society, of the media, of the parents, of the public, and so on, and so on. So all of this together with the career order should contribute to improving education, improving education-education process. Opinions on the current form of a career order vary, vary. In my opinion, it has not yet been properly discussed, in contrast to the proposal to change the financing of regional education, where the wheels were much, much more. And that it will be really necessary to discuss this amendment with various associations, some of which support it, some of which have great reservations about it, trade unions and, of course, those concerned above all, these are teachers from the field, teachers from practice, who can give us back exactly the view of what it will be like for their pedagogical activities. For this reason, I think we need to use that time. And personally, I'd like the space for discussion to be much longer. When I realize it comes to the very time of the holiday, then we have an election here and this will probably mark the negotiation of all the amendments to the laws, not just this. However, at least over the 80 days it should get, so the space really should be used for this discussion, because if we were to accept something quickly just to accept it for the election, and it was at the expense of the quality of the amendment, it would certainly not be okay. I think there will be some other things to do about it, whether it's the standard of the teacher and some of the decrees that need to be looked at to make it really all in line to make it compatible. With regard to some of the proposals that are being made here, I think it's very well that subject and branch offices in the territory are to be restored, that it will give great help to teachers of both vocational subjects and first degree, just to everyone. That's what we're missing here. We certainly support this adaptation two-year period, with these teachers receiving support from teachers. Personally, I am very glad that we are returning to this practice. And it's true that a number of schools where there was a reasonable leadership never gave up. It is also good that at this point it should also be supported by finances, where the teacher stating that if he is to give the teacher what he needs, he obviously needs time and should be evaluated accordingly. The teaching teacher may give the beginning a lot of positive, but he may also give him a lot of negative. So even with that in mind, I mention this issue and, of course, it should also help the director to choose the real teacher who will help these teachers during the adaptation period. The question is whether these teachers should also be reduced by working time, i.e. the number of hours of direct teaching duty, but I think that should also be a question in the other discussions that await us. Another point I wanted to make. Of course, teachers, all teachers of any degree must be educated in continuing education throughout their lives. It is not enough for a faculty of education, it is not enough for what will happen within two or several years, but personally every teacher must feel, and a quality teacher has him that he must be educated in a given field, in psychology, in special pedagogy, in vocational subjects and others and others. However, at the same time, the teacher must feel that the education he undergoes really makes sense. And I am also saying this because there are currently many trainings, a number of courses that teachers are literally scared of, and yet it doesn't give them anything, and it keeps them from working. Quality is dubious, often it makes the business of various nonprofit organizations. And here I think that the Ministry of Education should be the one to guarantee the quality of this continuing education and preparation. It has already been said here, and I would only sign that there is a need to reduce administration in education. As I said in the beginning, a good cantor wants to teach and not to constantly create more and more papers, more and more portfolio. Now we have a proposal for every teacher to have a plan for their professional development. He'll have to prepare for the certification procedure, which will be associated with some paper storage, and so on and so on. So that definitely shouldn't be what should be relevant. The important I see the work of a cantor in class, the work of a cantor with a pupil, the way he teaches how he understands children, how he can explain the substance to them, but also understand and advise them at different moments of their lives. Another thing we're worried about, if there's real money for it. There are extras after both tests, 2,000 after the first, about 5,000 combined after the second test, for specialization activities it's another 2,000. Of course, I welcome any extra crown for teachers and non-teachers. That has our huge support. I'm just pointing out if it's really going to happen because I've noticed some conjecture between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, so that the money from the state budget can actually be collected. As far as the certification procedure is concerned, I would urge here that this really does not rely mainly on paper-documented competence, so that it is not purely formal, but that it is based on the true teaching-educational activity of the teacher. To what extent will he attract a career order, or maintain, or discourage a teacher, that's a question. I am thinking above all of the teachers who are missing at school, these are teachers of technical subjects, science subjects, they are teachers of mathematics, physics, chemistry, ICT. But they are also teachers of vocational training who retire in large numbers, and in the coming years it will be even more obvious, and yet we do not have new teachers taking part in these fields. That means the teaching of what I was talking about is in direct jeopardy. Finally, experts from the associations who deal with these problems confirm this. A colleague here suggested that there is also a question of a supplement for the classroom. I think that is also a question for discussion, because really class teachers both at first and second levels have a specific work with the given age category of these pupils, and they need to be assessed very sensitively so that it does not go wrong at the given school. So I totally agree with that. Finally, I would like to say that at first reading, we support the proposal for a career order, or a proposal for an amendment on pedagogical workers. We expect a very detailed discussion with people from the field, with people from practice, so that there is room for this discussion. And, of course, final support or non-support will depend both on this debate and overall on the amendments adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this law, which has been given the reputation of a career order for teachers, is certainly a law for which our teaching public awaits with certain expectations. He promises to bring a certain certainty to our system, a certain certainty of entitlement, especially for an evaluation that corresponds to the quality of the teacher. The question is whether this law can meet this expectation. Teachers always tend to evaluate themselves, evaluate their colleagues, evaluate school management. We know that the assessment of your person is always somewhat better than the assessment of your surroundings. I think our education has had a whole range of tools to evaluate teachers for a long time. Finally, the school head, together with his colleagues, who make up the school management, has clear, well-defined tools to learn and evaluate teachers and, of course, how to include them in certain categories at his school. Certainly the director who wants to meet his teachers must fulfil the obligation of regular hospitalizations, regular consultations, regular monitoring of the results of the teacher's work, regardless of the classification, so in the end in the success of the pupils at the school exit. It seems to me that this law puts the headmaster's personality in the background, as if he were trying to objectify the process of assigning teachers into given categories, thereby providing them with a kind of compulsory claim procedure. I don't know to what extent this is right. The school director, who is not overwhelmed by excessive administration, who does not need to create various unnecessary projects, unnecessary plans, does not need to write projects into European funds in order to obtain funding for his school, he will have time to perform his duties inside the school and devote himself to his teachers in order to get to know them well and to evaluate them well. The question is whether those who promise a great deal from this law will eventually not be disappointed. Another thing I want to mention is the preparation of teachers in our teaching faculties. Firstly, I would like to mention a rather general and quite challenging topic, this is a topic of study structure in the preparation of teachers. This study is structured, it is as structured as the tools of the Bologna Process, and when we look at the law, we actually see that with the degree of bachelor, a graduate of this first degree of structured study, it can basically perform the activities of an assistant educator, perhaps even an educator for leisure time. If he wants to be a teacher, he must necessarily complete his follow-up study, become a Magistrate. The question is whether the expected contribution of this type of study, its structure, was fulfilled whether the graduates of the Bachelor's degree could look around and choose where they would like to continue, where they would like to acquire their Master's degree or, possibly, whether they would like to leave after reaching the degree of Bachelor's degree, Bachelor's degree, somewhere into practice. The other direction, in my opinion, is hard to get through. The first one here, I'd say we don't often meet him. Thus, the question of structured preparation, its correctness or incorrectness, the possibilities of the European Union system at all to abandon it, to let some faculties consider whether their way of preparing teachers could not be better implemented by a complete master's study. Another important moment in the preparation of teachers is the time when the teacher gets to know the teaching practice and when he actually starts to practice his demanding profession. In some faculties this may happen even at the first, bachelor's degree, at other faculties the teacher first comes to the classroom and stands in front of the pupils only in the follow-up study. Here I am a clear advocate for the practice to intersect with a whole five-year teaching study, and the teacher can gradually prepare to become a true ruler in that class and be able to deal with all possible aspects of direct contact with his students or with his students. I know that this law cannot think about this, but I still strongly advocate this way. The question is how teachers will acquire the knowledge, how they will complement their education after graduation. Perhaps the authors of the law, those who deal with it every day, day after day, and who have prepared this part of the law in detail, see that the effort to gain further knowledge, to complete their education, to gain further degrees is the cornerstone, the alpha, and the omega of their lives for teachers. It's not like that. Of course, let's face it. Nevertheless, I understand, and I have always been in favour of giving teachers the opportunity to continue to educate themselves. I have been in the teaching profession for 41 years or 42 years, and I must say that I went through these stages of teaching life, that I lived at a time and began to teach when it was mandatory. A postgraduate study, when we had to go through a two-year postgraduate study at our parent faculties, at our alma mater, and only to discharge this postgraduate study was a reason to admit the most serious, first step that the teacher could have achieved. I was a starting teacher, so I was also a teacher in charge of putting young colleagues into practice. I know what a problem it is for an early teacher to become a good teacher as soon as possible. I was also the director, I know what it means to know, to find someone who needs help, who needs to be given more attention to him, and to know who is able to deal with the problems separately. I think that continuing teacher education is a good idea, I am a supporter of it, but I just think that it should be directed as far as possible to teaching faculties. I am not sure whether various non-profit organisations capable of obtaining accreditation, different natural, legal persons can be those qualified and good guarantors provided with further teacher education. My idea, my intercession, is to encourage further education whether institutionally or economically at teaching faculties. [[16.00 hours]] The question of lack of teachers, especially science teachers, is fatal, long-term. It is based on a low assessment of teachers, whether statutory or financial. It's a misguided road to improve. The idea that I share that every teacher would deserve a salary of 35,000 crowns or more is a difficult idea, but it is possible to accept this idea as a goal. With regard to the status of teachers, it is very difficult in today's society, which is actually media, which is Facebook, Twitter, to face the fact that young people simply do not have respect for older generations. Such natural respect for an older person is often lacking, and family training may also be the cause. That's all the more teachers deserve to have the support of our system. It's hard to ask the media, the media, to support more teachers, but this is what I think would be necessary. I have already mentioned that there can be no substitute for further teacher education for any other network of devices, as my colleagues mentioned in their previous speeches. I know what happened. There was a network of district teaching institutes, a network of regional teaching institutes with their Cabinets, where there were usually between one and two people who were such guarantors of their subject in the district or in the region. I'm sure it was good for the teachers, they had a certain consulting opportunity. On the other hand, I experienced great concern at school when this methodology was to come to school and carry out some sort of parallel inspection next to the regional school inspection. I'm not sure this trip is even possible these days. I think it is good for this law to pass into second reading and to be subject to criticism and possible changes in committees. I just want to make it clear that it can't be salvation for our school system. Let us hope, then, that this will be a way that, if applied correctly, will increase the security of teachers in their teaching career and perhaps increase their respect in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u15	I thank Mr Zahradník. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Another enrollment is Mr Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The career system has been spoken very intensively since the 1990s. Then the debate intensified in 2005 after the adoption of the new school law, 561, and 563, on teaching workers, which we are now discussing. Some criteria have been set there in terms of how institutions are to be accredited, how education is to be accredited. Teachers began to educate themselves. A portfolio was started, but nothing happened, no evaluation. However, it is natural for teachers to be educated because, on the one hand, new knowledge, new practices, no matter how many changes in education have been made since 2005 after the adoption of the new school law, it has started with the creation of school educational programmes, so thinking that a teacher does not need to be educated and does not want to move is nonsense. Of course, teaching is one thing, but the other thing is how it comes from teaching faculties ready. I don't know what experience my colleagues have, but I had to conduct every graduate of the faculty through the opening process to know how to navigate the school, what to do, and what to teach. Except the one listing the teacher who was one of the best in terms of didactics, so the organization, of course, did it for thanking the director. Today we say: the principal who will accompany me through the process of the introduction will be paid by an additional fee. And, of course, the one who will be mentioned will get what he needs for his practice. It's the transfer of experience. I hate to say it, 'cause there was something going on here about the methodical wiring, the cabins that were in the territory. Please, we had all this. The system has been very well worked out. I don't want to go back to the government's natural interference - because nothing will be necessary! So it's a good thing that the Ministry is going to use today - and unfortunately, he has only one institution left, and that is NIDV, to rebuild these methodological support in the territories. With regard to the positions set out in that law, some may have a changed name, but most of these activities must be done at school because this results from the organisation of the school and from the natural life of the school. So the fact that their circle is expanding, and we say that people will be entitled again, if they meet certain conditions, higher awards, so it's just good, because we're used to teachers doing everything so-called free. Another thing that is - there were concerns about whether schools would have paid for it, whether there would be money for it. It is precisely because it is given and introduced taxatively into the law, so it is clear to me that the State is taking this order and therefore wants to pay for these activities to the people who will carry out them. And I think that's how regional education funding is set up. And if the law passes through the third reading, so will the sub-laws relating to it. Then there was a note about the classroom. As headmaster, I say quite responsibly that every time I was moving in some range, I should have compared the extras at elementary school, but still had a larger surcharge for those who had more integrated pupils then and automatically teachers of the first, fifth, sixth and ninth classes, or in these years they had a larger classroom supplement because these classes were connected with higher administrative demands. I'm not going to talk about whether there's going to be a thousand, two thousand, because that's really for debate on subcommittees, on committees. But I want to say one thing. If you look at the resources the teacher is getting today, it's a really ridiculous amount. Many teachers will say to you: Keep the 500 crowns, I will have peace rather than fulfill the duties of a class teacher and constantly write materials on the OSPOD, materials for the director, write a report card. It's just that the agenda is very extensive, so even this activity needs to be appreciated just as it deserves to be done to us by anyone. I would like to invite all of you who are interested in this issue, because the first debate will take place at ten o'clock. It will be a meeting of the subcommittee and we will talk about individualities. So if you're interested, you want to have overall insight, you want to hear public opinions, I'll invite you to this meeting. I think there will certainly be room for discussion. I would like to thank the Ministry of Education for implementing this idea at all, because the real years that are being said about it are already a nice line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give you my word, I'll read three apologies. First of all, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Josef Kott apologizes. Furthermore, from 18 o'clock until the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes. Furthermore, from 16 o'clock to the end of the day, for urgent reasons of employment, Minister Ludvík apologizes even though I see him here. So, since 4:30. Mrs Dobešová will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the proposed amendment 563 on pedagogical workers in the sense of so-called. A career order. I think that all my previous speakers, including me, have had to state, and therefore I must say that this is a matter that will certainly contribute to improving education. I personally see career order as a prestigious issue in the field of education. When we look at other higher education professions, especially medical professions, we see that the career order here has been set up in the past, that it works well, and I hope that, after the debate here in Parliament and the work in committees, we will certainly adopt an amendment that will contribute to improving education. This will contribute to better education, especially for children, but also for better school management in terms of methodical but also content. Personally, when I was looking at the content of this career order, I had one thought. It would be interesting to compare what salary increases are after the first and second tests for doctors and after the first and second tests for teachers. For teachers after two years of education, there is an increase of CZK 2,000 and after seven years, after successful completion of the test, it is CZK 5,000. I don't think it's motivating enough for teachers to reach a third, another, or another level. I think that a really teaching profession, which is basically designed by a whole generation of young people and actually helps to promote the welfare of the state, should generally be evaluated much more. What I appreciate is that this career order thinks that school is no longer really just about the basic professions such as teacher, principal, janitor or cleaning lady, but there are other career professions that are needed in school and that have their place. To be honest, these professions are already being carried out by school teachers, and it can be said that this amendment replicates the situation that is happening in schools. Every director who wants the school to prosper has its methodological commissions, in which he solves both teacher education and, of course, the quality of teaching. If we have them in the region, then the regional or other methodological committees that will help us in this work will only appreciate it and we will be very happy about it. I must say that a career order is something that has been discussed among teachers for a long time. And yesterday, when I had a meeting with the educators and I introduced them to the proposed novel, I saw a bit of horror in their eyes because they were afraid that they were going to grow a new administration. My fore-speaker, Mr. Kořenek, was right to say so. We started with school education programs, we continue to create our own teaching tools, and now we're going to write down our career growth plans. I hope these teachers can do all this while they still have time to teach. So I wish that the career order wouldn't complicate the situation for us, that he set the necessary positions precisely, and that he appreciated them well, that he wouldn't burden the teachers, and that I would be much in favour of the teachers not doing it for their part. Because, believe me, the teacher is supposed to be a teacher, and I sometimes look at the work of a teacher and his teaching as a job he only does when there's time left. Because, in addition to controls and other administrative burdens, teaching really becomes such, let's say, added value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u19	Thank you, too, Madame. The President of Mihola shall have priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can already see from the board that there is no need for priority rights, but I like to do this by listening to the discussion posts and, at least briefly, I would respond to some of them and add my view, and to our club. I am glad for what was said here by my fellow Zahradník, although it may have been related more indirectly than directly, the matter of teaching at all. This is a very important matter, which we may need to look more closely at, the question of whether one-stage or two-stage teaching faculties. I myself am a one-stage graduate, so I did not go through the bachelor's degree, and I look at it like my colleague Zahradník also, that actually the bachelor's degree is a little bit with a question mark at the faculty, as well as in medicine, that if Čech is not a finished teacher after the bachelor's study, then actually a hundred times can say that he has a completed university, but a finished teacher simply isn't. And the open discussion shows that, for example, in Hradec Králové, they returned to that one-stage study. Personally, I'd like to do the same, but it's a matter of further discussion. So far, I am glad that the comment has been made here, and it would be good to get back to that in some more extensive debate. Especially when we're dealing with a question that relates to pay and the prestige of a teaching profession, we all know that prestige will not only have a high-quality teacher, but a well-paid teacher. So, of course, this component fits in here, but first of all, we need to continue with the trend that God bless, this government has really started up in the debates, not only verbally, that teachers' salaries are actually rising more significantly, and I believe that we will continue this trend next year and even in those years following. If that prestige and the teacher's award further contributes to the career order, it will only be good. It said here how long it's been talked about. I remember it very well. In fact, I was a student at the Faculty of Education in the first half of the 1990s, and that was when it began to be discussed. And gradually it was clear that such a difficult thing would not come from year to year. She didn't come after five years. But it's true when we talk about it for ten years, then fifteen, and it still didn't warm up that many didn't just lose hope and basically lost it, and I was almost wondering if anyone else cared about it today if it had completely disappeared. But I don't think so. Hope is dying last, and it is now our job to force together not only the hope to be revived, but to bring the matter of the career order to a victorious end. And I believe that this will also happen on the basis of a certain compromise, because you who are watching the debate in more detail, so you know that there was talk of a four-stage career order, also of a two-stage one, and finally we're at a three-stage one. It is a good thing that we have found a compromise that we can also, and it would probably be useful to compare with the Europe that we are catching up with in this case, and many of the other Central European countries. Just for example. They already have a career order in Slovakia. That's where it's four-stage. Starting teacher, independent teacher, teacher with first testimonial, teacher with second testimonial. They also have it in neighboring Poland, Hungary, but also in France. I am a little surprised that in a country that is given as an example of progress in education, Finland, I did not find it there in an effort to compare. So I don't know if he's hiding it or if they just don't have it and they don't need it. Of course, a lot has always been inspirational for us, and the Federal Republic of Germany is three career degrees. Of course I say, the very important thing is that this system here, which is not simple and will still have challenging developments, so that it is supported by enough finance. At the same time, as much as I wish the career order and I personally support it, and our club supports it, we must not resign to other finances or to other motivations for teachers, and I first of all refer to the question that directors should have enough money to value active teaching staff who may not be fully involved in the career order, but this does not mean that it will not be quality teachers who would not deserve proper appreciation. So even here, we need to watch and hold the finances. [[16.20 hours]] I started at teaching schools, and I'm gonna end up with them, because actually, and even at teaching schools, there's actually a new teacher getting ready, so we should also focus on that attention from the point of view of funding. And I believe that's how it starts. In relation to this, lifelong education, continuing teacher education, this was mostly talked about, but less was done for. Many of the godly projects or efforts in this area to move on with teacher education have mostly ended up with a lack of finance, and ultimately even with a lack of interest by directors. Then we shouldn't let that happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u21	I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I'm not registering anyone. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant and the rapporteur for the final vote. They're both interested. First up, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the debate. I would like to apply for release through first reading and stress that the career order is the crown of teacher evaluation, the government's basic goal of achieving 130 percent of the average salary of a college student takes. And I would like to make sure that we do everything we can to ensure that the administrative burden is as low as possible. Thank you and please release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will ask the rapporteur for the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u24	I, for a very short time, spoke five Members in the discussions at first reading. There was no motion to reject this law, so we can release it for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-005-048.u25	Thank you. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I see no proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I shall first read the motion for a resolution. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 119; 164 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 116, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or, as the case may be, to the committees for discussion. I don't see any suggestions. If that is the case, then I thank you and conclude the discussion of this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
