ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 839/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, let me introduce a government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended. The aim of the bill is to extend the tax advantage of mineral oils consumed in plant production, as well as to mineral oils consumed in selected animal production and animal production activities. The draft law is intended to ensure that persons engaged in selected activities of animal production and animal production are allowed to claim the refund of excise duty on mineral oils which have been consumed for selected activities of animal production and animal production. In particular, it is the breeding of bovine, porcine, poultry, sheep or goats for the production, production and processing of animal products or the production of breeding and breeding animals of those livestock species. The introduction of this instrument will contribute at least partly to reducing the risk factors currently manifesting in animal production and animal production. The refund of part of the excise duty on mineral oils to persons using these mineral oils for animal production complies with all the conditions laid down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 1873/2006. Commission Regulation (EC) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1). 107 and 108 of the contracts declare certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market. However, the aid must be notified within 20 working days of the date of entry into force of this draft law. The Government's proposal was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 34th meeting on 31 August 2016 as a guarantee committee and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's draft law as amended by the amendments adopted. On 31 August and 7 September 2016, the Government's bill was discussed at its 45th meeting as well as the Committee on Budgets, which recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve this Government's bill as amended by the amendment adopted. The amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee are in line with the concept of the petitioner, will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. In the discussion of the Government's draft law in the Committee on Agriculture, an amendment was also discussed. provided for the refund of the tax on mineral oils consumed according to the farmed livestock unit per hectare of cultivated agricultural land. This amendment was amended and was tabled as a comprehensive amendment to the Government Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Budgets. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 839/1-3. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Petr Kudela, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing House Press 839, a government bill amending the Law on excise duties, as amended. The aim of the government bill is to extend the tax advantage of purchased and consumed mineral oils consumed in plant production, as well as to mineral oils consumed in selected animal production and animal production activities. So it's called. Green oil. Development of the introduction and interference of green diesel. We know three periods in which there was or is a tax refund, so-called. green diesel, in place. The requirements for keeping records of the purchase and consumption of mineral oils are regulated by Implementing Decree No. 202/2014. To facilitate the communication of the tax administrator with tax entities, the excise duty department has published an internal directive uniting the procedure of tax administrators in the administration of green oil refund. Part of the internal instruction is a list of activities in primary agricultural production to which green oil return can be applied. On its website, the Customs Administration made the forms of tax return available to the applicant for the application of the right to refund pursuant to Law No. 57/2003, excise duties and instructions for its completion. The refund of the part of the excise duty on mineral oils is in practice an established and used form of support in the agricultural sector. The Customs Administration shall supervise the authorisation for the drawing of the excise duty refund. The applicant for the refund must keep a detailed record of the type of activity carried out, the date of the activity on which the soil block, the duration of the activity, the marking of the machine, the total consumption, etc. It is quite a complex and demanding process of applying this refund of excise duty, but for large established companies, this register is equally kept, with smaller entities it simplifies the lower volume of work done. If the excise duty on diesel and mineral oils for propulsion is used for the management and maintenance of roads, etc., then it is appropriate to say, if the farmer carries out agricultural activities on the land, at this time it cannot destroy the communications which are corrected from the excise duty. So far, the return has been introduced only for activities linked to plant production. We are now discussing the proposal that excise duty should also return to selected animal production activities. In particular, it is the breeding of bovine animals, pigs, poultry, sheep, goats for the production, extraction and processing of animal products. A total of three amendments were tabled at the agricultural committee's meeting. My amendment, Mr Kudela, which extended the refund on excise duty according to the content of the bio-component in diesel fuel. Mr Pavel Šrámek's proposal, which proposed, on the one hand, the introduction of a refund on the transport of products from the place of production to the market and also differentiated the refund by the number of livestock units kept. The third amendment proposed that the refund of excise duty should also be returned in selected fish farming activities. The Committee on Agriculture has discussed the amendments and adopted a resolution recommending to the Chamber of Deputies that the House press 839 adopt the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u5	Mr rapporteur, thank you, and I am now asking that Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur for the budget committee, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt this proposal with one amendment concerning the transitional and final provision governing the effectiveness of the law by entering into force on the first day of the month following the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u7	Thank you and I open a general debate in which I register three applications. With the first to the microphone of Mr Šrámek, Mr Bendl will be prepared and then Mr Kudela. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, government, let me present here comprehensive Amendment 4928 to the Government Bill amending Act 353/2003 Coll., House Print 839, so-called. green diesel. Allow me to explain a few facts in advance and, above all, the reasons why we have tabled a comprehensive amendment and to explain this issue comprehensively. Lately, the word "animal production," the crisis in animal production, is a very low price of milk. Many argue that the livestock crisis is now under way, and I argue that the livestock crisis has been going on for the last 25 years. Allow me a few brief numbers. In 1990, we had a cattle situation of 1.3 million. Today, in 2016, 362,000, while our neighbors in Germany almost did not change the numbers in 30 years. Even recently, the European Commission has prepared so-called a dairy package where the farmer partially disposes of his flock and reduces the production of milk receives a subsidy of four crowns per litre. The pig states have fallen even more. Today we are importing 60 percent of pork meat and recently prices have started to rise. Of course, prices have recently started to rise because for many years, pig meat has been imported here at dumped prices, and at the moment that import has reached a certain dominance on the market, importers, importers or exporters from other countries, finally want to start making their profits. This was also the case in other areas of agriculture, e.g. in fruit, vegetables and potatoes. The dumping prices are really destroying our first producer. I would say directly that today the result of the privatisation of the 1990s is actually being completed, when many processors failed and the primary producers had many claims left with these processors, a lot of money from secondary insolvency. When joining the European Union, perhaps the worst conditions of all ten new countries were negotiated, perhaps Slovakia was the only one who was worse off. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has not become part of the European common agricultural policy, but I dare say that only by selling products or surpluses from the old 15th, i.e. from the former European 15th, and the further decline of livestock production, the decline of key commodities for the food industry, has begun. Some say: What would we care about agriculture and food production and food self-sufficiency when we bring cheaper food? That's what many economists say, but unfortunately, they can't even see the tip of their noses. They don't even realize the connection to the landscape, the quality of the soil. But most importantly, low prices will always last to a certain extent and after gaining certain dominance in a given category, prices will skyrocket. Let us remember, for example. fruit, vegetables or garlic. After all, we're an industrial country, agriculture, that's the past, now the industry is 4.0, the future is in IT technology, many people will say. But Holanďan and Němec, who are also a great, strong industrial power, there animal production blooms directly and food production also. For example, Holanďan produce eight times as much milk per hectare as we do in the Czech Republic. We in the Czech Republic are self-sufficient in milk and unfortunately surplus from Western countries are being driven to us at dumped prices. What, then, is the main key problem of our agriculture? I claim that this is a poor structure, an imbalance in agricultural production, an enormous increase in plant production at the expense of animal and senseless support often doing nothing so-called. farmers. I already spoke here at first reading about so-called. the SAPS system that we introduced when we joined the European Union. This system was adopted by other countries too, it is called. area payment, and in all other countries, e.g. Even in Greece, where it was probably the most dramatic, animal production fell dramatically. And today Greece is importing over 80 percent of food. Ex-15, of course. Today we import more than 40 percent of dairy products, and if you look at shops, you can hardly see Czech butter there anymore, you can only see French and German. I therefore argue that the excessive system of SAPS has long led to unbalanced agriculture, a brutal decline in livestock production and the production of sensitive and laborious commodities. This, of course, also results in a senseless increase in land prices, rent prices. And since almost 80 percent of the agricultural land is now rented, the farmer is de facto just a flow heater from the European Union, where large amounts end up with landowners who have absolutely nothing to do with agriculture. So most of the money doesn't end up in agriculture. However, our soil quality is also declining by further decline in the number of livestock. Organic matter is missing in the fields, soil erosion and drought risks are increasing. The soil does not retain water in the landscape, the risk of local flooding and extreme drought increases. Connect all of this together and you will not be surprised that today we import more than 50 percent of food and 80 percent of people living in the countryside commute to cities for work because animal production employs five times more people than plant production. So the whole system is sick. And this comprehensive amendment that we tabled should partially cure, but only partially cure, some sort of distortion in Czech agriculture. I'm sure some here will argue that there's been a tax distortion. Why should farmers receive tax refunds when other entrepreneurs do not have that advantage? Yes, I'm sure that's true. And if it were up to me, I would cancel most of the subsidies and most of those tax benefits. But I'd cancel them everywhere. I would, of course, cancel them with us, but mostly in Western countries. Unfortunately, if these benefits are enjoyed by farmers in Western countries and in countries around us such as Germany, Poland and Austria, we must have them, too, because it is about the competitiveness of agriculture. The competitiveness of agriculture, although I am not pleased with this tax distortion. So let me sum up the situation with regard to the so-called green diesel. Today, farmers receive 40 percent of the excise duty refund on plant production and zero percent on livestock production. This involves large administrative costs, because you have to prove hard what work is in plant production and what work is in animal production, so de facto you have two vomit in the farm and farm and you have to very strictly distinguish which work was in the fields and which were in the stable. Of course, more machines run in the fields than those that ride in the stables, because, of course, the motivation to get the vomit is very strong. The amendment submitted by the Minister of Agriculture partially resolved this situation and introduced 40 percent of the animal production refund, thus introducing one return on the whole farm, which, of course, is a huge advantage in that it will be less administratively demanding and will simply be one rate on the whole farm and there will be no speculation or fraud. [[10.00 hours]] Mr Kudela has proposed an amendment to the 90 per cent return on livestock production in response to what crisis animal production is now in. Thanks for that. It's certainly a worthy proposal, but there are several butes. "But" is mainly in the fact that we are once again introducing two rates on the farm, i.e. 40 per cent on plant production and 90 per cent on animal production. Again, there may also be fewer people riding in the fields and starting to ride more in the stables. This led me to the idea of introducing one rate per farm and introducing three rates, i.e. a return of 40 percent, 60 percent and 90 percent, and to introducing the so-called livestock intensity criterion. Thus, one who has a higher animal-to-plant ratio gets a higher return than one who has almost no animals, for example, has only biogas or only and only plant production. The principle is that this intensity of livestock production can now be measured by the so-called VDJ per ha, or by the large livestock unit per ha. The VDJ can be converted into de facto all animals. Whoever has a load of VDJ per ha between 0 and 0,2 gets 40 per cent of the vomit for the whole form, both for plant and animal production. Whoever has a VDJ per ha between 0.2 and 0.4 gets a return of 60 per cent on both plant and animal. And who has the burden of VDJ per ha higher than 0.4, which is already a well-run business, will get almost 90 percent return. For your information, the Czech Republic has an average VDJ per ha of less than 0.53 if I have the correct information. In Germany, they have 1 and the Holanďan have 1.7, i.e. the burden of livestock units per ha is Holanďan and a half times higher. The Holanďan were always one of the best farmers in the end. Some might argue that, at the same time, with the highest return, the return on plant production will increase, but it is not true, because whoever has a higher load of VDJ per ha, so much more area, much more agricultural land must devote to so-called non-market crops, for which they will not spend anything. These are the crops that we want to grow in the field, and the crops for feeding the animals, i.e. just for animal production. The increased return on the plant is de facto a return on animal production. Unfortunately, this principle cannot be implemented retroactively. Mr Kudela's proposal introduced an increased return to 1. 1. 2016, unfortunately, this principle of mine cannot be implemented retroactively, because it is necessary to unify animal records and clearly define on the farm VDJ per ha and it will take some time. That is why we have prepared a compromise proposal, a comprehensive amendment which contains de facto two amendments, both Mr Kudela's amendment and my amendment. Thus, the current proposal of 40 and 90 per cent on livestock production would apply from 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. My principle would work from 1 July 2017 to the end of 2018. My original proposal also included support for smaller farmers who would receive the highest refund in the size of agricultural area 89 ha, but it is discrimination. Moreover, I also suggested that those farmers who produce something on the farm and carry it to farmers' markets, for example, have some possibility of a refund of excise duty on oil, which they use, for example, to drive to farmers' markets or to sell in their region. Unfortunately, that's not even possible, because it's illegal support. It is already de facto retail. However, we discussed this with the Minister, and we agreed that we would definitely prepare and invent some de minimis support for farmers who produce something on the farm and bring it to farmers' markets. Maybe he'll say something about it. I believe that this promise will be finalized in some way in the coming time. Let me mention here the financial requirements of the comprehensive amendment to public budgets. In 2016, they are estimated to be between 600 and 900 million, up to 1 billion in 2017. CZK and in 2018 the cost of excise duty will be increased between 1.3 and 1.4 billion. In view of the uncertainties in the development of agriculture in the Czech Republic and, above all, the uncertain effects, because this is a completely new issue, it was agreed on the public budgets in a coalition that this proposal will only apply until 31. 12. 2018. Unfortunately, I would certainly intercede for it not to be limited and actually work for a much longer time. However, it is a consensus in the coalition. I am not the Minister of Finance or Agriculture, so we finally agreed on this compromise. I would like to ask all Members to support this comprehensive amendment both on the left and on the right. This is neither a left-wing nor a right-wing amendment. I heard on ČT24 that it's the support of the big ones again. Nor are they support for large agri-businesses. On the contrary. Some large businesses do not have a single animal, so they will not benefit, they will only have a basic rate. It's really a proposition for everyone. It's a proposal for the big, medium and small farmers. In a detailed debate, I will therefore sign up for Amendment No. 4928. Finally, I would ask and put forward a procedural proposal that, at the end of the general debate before the start of the detailed debate, a vote be taken on this comprehensive amendment, which would be taken as the basis for further discussion instead of the original draft press law 839/0. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Just a little fix. I am afraid that is not possible in the general debate. This can be done in a detailed debate because it is being loaded in a detailed debate, and this is what you are referring to the amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u10	I have received information from the legislation that when it comes to a comprehensive amendment replacing the original proposal, it is possible to vote on it at the end of the general debate, and all the other amendments will then refer to this comprehensive amendment and not to the original government proposal. If, at the end of the general debate, the House approves this comprehensive amendment as a basis, then these amendments will be related to this. If it does not vote, then all amendments, including this complex, will be voted separately at third reading and will refer to the original government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u11	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I've just consulted the legislation, I'm sorry, you're right. So I will make a note of this and we will vote on your proposal before the end of the general debate. Now, next in line, please. I note Mr Šarapatka's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I would like to support Mr Šrámek's proposal, and I would just like to respond briefly to his words, where he called the current system sick. I believe that this is true because I have a particular experience. In the village where I come from, I wanted to buy lamb for my friends from a farmer who grows hundreds of sheep. [[Member Kováčik warns that sheep behave.]] He's acting, I'm sorry. And I was told that he doesn't have sheep for wool, neither for skin, nor for meat, he has them for subsidies. So just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u13	Thank you. Now, please, next in line, this is Mr Bendl, who is duly entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, first a reaction to Mr Šarapatka, so that he does not think that the law will change anything. Someone will still be able to have sheep for subsidies. On the contrary, when he makes himself a self-employed person or something like that, they still give him a refund to bring them hay or some kind of feeding. Be careful with that. That's really not gonna change anything. The amendment doesn't really solve anything. I just wanted to cool your enthusiasm a little, because that's the way it is. First of all, I have to say and repeat that if the government comes with green oil for everyone, we will support it. If we were to reduce the tax burden on diesel for the entire public and business community, etc. etc., there's no debate about it at all. We're in. We think the Czech Republic can do it economically. Yesterday there was an interview here about how the state was unable to spend money in large investments. We talked about how difficult some major projects will even start building. And the state is relatively well today, and there's no reason to consider that the rate of taxation of fuel, or, say, oil, would not be reduced. [[Don't think?]] In the past, not so long ago, we voted in favour even with some government MPs. Unfortunately, the proposal failed. However, I must reiterate the principle that Mr Šrámek mentioned here in this work, who bothers us, and that is the disproportion and favouration of one part of the business public towards another, with the fact that it is difficult to check the green oil already today to see if it is abused. Here comes more and more paperwork and so on. And it becomes a reverse whip to the business sector within agriculture. All the more so, we think that we simply need to eliminate these disparities and not deepen further expansion of green oil. It was mentioned here by the suspect rapporteur, perhaps the minister also said that it should serve mainly sheep, goats, pigs, cattle and so on. And my colleague Šrámek here said that the animal today gets basically zero on the backs and a plant 40 percent. It's not exactly true, because those who have animals and have plants, so it affects them and they're mixed containers. For those who have livestock and do not have land, in simple terms, from the listed sheep, goats, pigs, cattle they are mainly pigs, and it will mainly concern companies that have pig breeding in their wounds. And I hope that all those involved here and in conflict of interest will come forward. Therefore, I am not looking at my colleague Šrámek, but all those representatives of companies who have pigs in their stocking should say that they are in conflict of interest because it concerns them. [[Standing in front of the pitch]] That is why I am convinced that we will not get rid of speculation that this is a recording of big companies again, I will tell one company that simply dominates agriculture in the Czech Republic, and I hope none of us wants that, or at least most of us here. Some might. For this reason, I simply have to propose, in the second reading, the rejection of the bill, although, of course, we will be busy discussing the comprehensive amendment if it is adopted by the Chamber of Deputies as the basis for the amendments. It hasn't happened yet. I wanted to respond to what happened here, that we had a livestock crisis here for 25 years. I think that the period is much longer, that we should objectively admit that there was a period when the regime took people's property, and that it was not about any of the agricultural sector gluttony, and that it was not about 25 years, but that it was about an disproportionately longer period. And the older ones of us remember what it looked like in the meats and stuff like that, when you wanted to buy some meat, you had to have a friend who was selling a bike well to trade it for a better piece of meat or none at all. I don't think we need to remember this time of year. More importantly, my colleague Kováčik will confirm to me that at that time the meat was really just a matter of nepotism. And getting sirloin was a disaster. And that we should not brag about numbers in this regard. I can't remember those priorities either - it was a gross mistake, and I agree with you on that, and it was always incomprehensible to me that the promotion of livestock production was not a priority for the period 2007 to 2013. [[Don't remember?]] But it is necessary to deal with all those who were then responsible for the agricultural sector and directed the subsidy system as directed. And today we're crying over spilled milk. I just have to remind you, because it's not clear to anyone yet. To measure with Germany and the sap system. Three years ago, we talked about this situation with all NGOs, and I note with everyone, including the Agrarian Chamber, including other major NGOs, and they all confirmed that they want this system, that they want the sap system. That's what I'm saying in public, and it's on a round table at the minister's, I'm sure it's somewhere in the minutes. That is why, as the Czech Republic together, we have further developed and supported this system, although it is different from the former 15th, but at that time everyone has turned to the fact that this system is more transparent and simpler and that it will be better to stay with it for some time. And I think that if he should change, then just for the next financial period. At this point in time, I suppose it makes no sense to play with this idea, because I do not believe that we are able to change it in the European Union in a given situation. However, I must say that if we want to praise the system that the Němec, the Holanďan, etc. have here, then I must remind you that the price of land in Germany is at least three times as much as in the Czech Republic. And I say at least. That's why it's also the reason that Dutch companies have often bought land here, raised cattle, bred young cattle and taken it back to their place because our manufacturing industry is simply not competitive and it pays them to go through these distances and eventually process the meat somewhere else. In addition to this comprehensive amendment, increase the refund according to the amount of the burden. I'm afraid the system will be so complicated and so uncontrollable, because obviously it also depends on how the VDJ counts. Whether it's at any date or if it's at any amount, because we know that the number of cattle is changing over the course of the year depending on how they're born, or how the cattle go to the slaughterhouse, and it's crucial to say what the base is actually coming from. Make sure there's no protection on this one. To seek a solution that will be generally acceptable and fair to all. [[10.20 hours]] Since this proposal doesn't contain it, as far as I know, we should know what it's actually meant about this. As we take the VDJ, at which date and time and quantity etc. Are we gonna take that? Because how the variable changes over the course of the year is not clear and it can help someone and it can hurt someone significantly. I can still make a comment on 31. 12. 2018. If I hear a lot of comments from the business sector, it's: Don't change the rules of the game so often! You keep changing our rules, new papers, new responsibilities, new documents, etc., etc. The moment we say this is only for a moment, it means that the agricultural sector will have to get used to some other system. Someone's gonna have to change it, or they're gonna extend it, etc. And if in the general business sector it is not necessary to see so great in the years ahead, because in engineering they certainly do not live by what is born to them in two or three years, unlike agriculture, then it is far more sensitive to change the rules of the game often within the agricultural sector. I think it's definitely for the debate because it's 31. 12. 2018 is behind the door from the farmer's point of view, basically. There'll be an election next year. That won't happen six months before, six months after that, nothing will de facto happen, there will be no way to accept any reaction to the system. That's why I'm offering arguments why not play with it so much time and define it exactly. Rather, let it be and in the experience of how these things will evolve, then respond to the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Šrámek, Mr Kováčik after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me just briefly respond to why I just said that over the last 25 years. Let me just quote here trends in foreign agrarian trade. The decrease in the production of selected commodities caused a strong dependence on imports. The balance of agrarian foreign trade in the Czech Republic has been negative for a long time. It was last positive in 1993. Current data for foreign trade 2016 confirms this development, of course. However, let me still respond to the practical things. So the number of VDJs will count to the last day of the month. And so I'd like to respond to the fact that they all wanted SAPS. Who was everyone? The citizens of the Czech Republic who did not want to be dependent on food imports were certainly not. It was definitely someone, landowners and especially farmers who didn't want to do much. Since SAPS are simply advantageous for those who employ fewer people, have less worries, have no animals, for which it is of course beneficial. So they all wanted SAPS. But I believe that if the Czech public understood it properly, 90 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic would not want it. It was all these guys. And as far as the price of land is concerned. Of course, the price of land has been rising lately, and the rents have been rising. It is, of course, mainly thanks to the SAPS system. Although the cost of land in Germany is higher, it is interesting that, for example, subsidies per hectare, e.g. in France, so-called SAPS, they're almost three times lower. And those aids are just differentiated for animals, for farms, for different productions, etc. In our country, just 70 percent of the money that flows through agriculture goes to SAPS. And some of them end up with landowners. So it doesn't actually end in agriculture! So the money that's meant for SAPS isn't for agriculture, but it's often just for those owners through rents, high rents today, so they don't end up in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u17	I would also like to thank and ask Mr Kováčik with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was asked by my colleague Bendl to confirm the supply situation before November 1989, in pre-tipping times. You know, my colleague Bendl said he remembered something, so did I. But the 1950s, my colleague, through Madam President, we do not remember either. The way it looked in the shops. We don't. Unless we're roughly over 70. Yes, there was no meat and other food in Europe in the 1950s! The skinny postwar years, when agriculture was decimated by World War II, really meant shortcomings in food supply in general, meat as well, throughout Europe. Not only in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. Resp. The Czechoslovak Republic. She wasn't socialist until the '60s. Then, however, I confirm that when the coup came, one of the greatest critics in socialist agriculture was that agriculture was surplus. [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] That we produce more than we consume. That self-sufficiency is more than 100 percent. And that it is therefore necessary to go back to small farms and go back to what was once idyllic. And so the result is, and unfortunately, the situation was also involved by Mr Bendl as Minister, that we have animal states, e.g. I'm talking about animal production, in dairy cows at 40 percent of 1989, etc., etc. I'm not going to name all the numbers. I confirm what Mr. Šrámek said here. And finally. This bill is intended to put out the fire that caused the animal production, among other things. and a colleague named Bendl. So, please, let's vote, and let's let this drag on about things that everyone knows a long time ago. [[Attention on time.]] Maybe somebody doesn't know a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u19	In fact, I would like to see Mr Bendl's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u20	I want to thank my colleague Kováčik for the performance. It was really great. And every time I hear it so hard, I think it's worth it for what was here before 1989, that it's still here, that it needs to be defended. Apparently, some people miss you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u21	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Kudela's microphone, which is duly signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u22	Madam President, hello. I would also like to respond briefly to the debate. No more paperwork is being filed, because of course who doesn't want to do paperwork doesn't have to. Anyone who wants paperwork is entitled to a refund of excise duty, so the refund of excise duty will be granted. I have included three amendments into the system. In selected agricultural production activities, e.g. When splitting air raids around the fields, around the forests, it is possible to apply the refund of excise duty also for chipping. However, this return is not possible for forestry activities. Therefore, one of my amendments also concerns the extension of the refund of excise duty to selected forestry activities. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Kott proposed that the refund of excise duty should also be allowed for fish farmers and fish farmers, so I also have this amendment prepared. And my third amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate, concerns the administration, when it is necessary today to apply this regularly every two months to a legitimate person who is interested in the refund of excise duty. This measure is administratively demanding for applicants, and I therefore propose that it be possible to apply twice a year for the refund of excise duty, i.e. as much as six months. These are my three amendments, which are prepared for Mr Šrámek's comprehensive amendment, and I will sign up for them in a similar debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u23	Thank you and please another duly registered, and that is Mr Fiedler. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will really leave these purely professional debates on the wheels that are obviously moving on this issue, and it is their area, but I would like to mention one thing here. I don't know if the Minister is seeing right now. We had some questions here at first reading that I personally had about how the demands of deduction would be shown, and you, Minister through Madam President, presented that it would be on the basis of some flat rates. We discussed it on the budget committee, where you were probably not present for work reasons and the deputy represented you, so the interpretation was completely different. So I was very surprised that what you presented here at the first reading in the House was diametrically different from how it was explained to me by the Deputy Minister on the Committee on Budgets - Mr Šrámek was present here - as there will be claims for deduction of livestock production. I was very surprised that the translator, the minister, gave such a diametrically different interpretation of the way you answered me, and I looked at the first reading of the screen a moment ago here in the House, and then on the budget committee. It's at least shocking for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I thank you, Mr Member, for your contribution and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u26	Thank you. I would like to reply to Mr Fiedler through Mr President. It's true that a farmer always has to keep records of what oil he used up for. This provides for a decree. However, I have said that we want to give Customs and we will give guidance on what types of animal production activities, where there are probably the normalities, how much oil can be consumed, and if the farmer goes beyond these activities, so that the Customs administration knows that it has to look at these things in more detail. But that is a thing that is, let's say, a form of methodical cooperation, not that we can write it in the decree. It's not possible. In this way, the European Court of Justice, about eight years ago, did not allow these standards, which were previously written directly in legislation, to do so. So it really is that the farmer has to prove it. But we know on the basis of calculations from our Research Institute of Agricultural Technology, what - orientally - consumption in those types of activities a farmer can roughly consume in practice. So much for my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u27	Thank you, Minister. I am still asking for order as to whether anyone is reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants the final word at this time. It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote on Mr Šrámek's procedural proposal, and I will ask you to repeat the procedural proposal, and I will put it to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u28	My procedural proposal was for us to vote on this comprehensive amendment, which would be taken as the basis for further discussion instead of the original bill, the press 839/0.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u29	And I'm gonna ask for your number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u30	The number of the amendment is 4928.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u31	4928. Thank you. I think everyone has heard your procedural proposal, and since it is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. First, I'm gonna check you all out. I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 238; 114 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 113, against no one. I am of the opinion that this procedural proposal has been approved. So we will now continue with a detailed debate. I am opening a detailed debate and Mr Kudela came forward first, Mr Kalousek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u32	Mr President, as I said in the general debate, I am signing up for my amendments, which I have put into the system under 4932, 4938 and 4941. As I have already said, these amendments concern extending the refund of excise duty to selected activities in the pond, to selected forestry activities, and also adjusting the time limit within which applications for the return of excise duty must be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u33	Thank you. Mr Kalousek will now prepare Mr Šrámek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on my amendment, allow me to appreciate the words of Mr Kudela, the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, who stressed in his report how difficult and difficult the green oil system is. That's really true. I was just missing the second true sentence: and because it is so complicated and challenging, we will all vote for it because one of the main objectives of this government is to increase administrative complexity and one of the few objectives that will actually be achieved. I have put in the system Amendment 4819, which was based on a similar philosophy presented by Mr Šrámek here, and thus on the effort to benefit farmers from much less from Prague, who take subsidies only from their land without really paying attention to agricultural production. In my amendment, the term large livestock unit is also introduced and the advantage graduated by the ratio of the livestock unit to the number of hectares. Given that Mr Šrámek's proposal is handled more legislatively and essentially follows the same philosophy and is now approved by the House as the main background material, I do not want to complicate the situation and I am withdrawing my Amendment 4819 and please do not be included in the amendments at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Šrámek will now prepare Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am signing up for a comprehensive amendment that I have put into the system under number 4928. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u37	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u38	I just want to propose for the third reading then to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u39	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate and ask the Minister or the rapporteur for final words whether you want to marry. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u40	Mr President, I merely reiterate that we agreed at second reading that Amendment 4928 by Mr Šrámek will be taken as the basis for the amendment. In a detailed debate, Mr Kudela also added three amendments - 4932, 4938 and 4941, Mr Kalousek withdrew his amendment, Mr Šrámek read his amendment 4928, that is the comprehensive amendment, and Mr Bendl proposed a rejection of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-004-015.u41	Thank you. Since no further proposals have been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'll read the apologies. From today's meeting, Mr Kořenek apologizes at 12 o'clock for work reasons. I'm correcting Mrs Bohdalová's apology, she's been apologizing since 11:30. Mrs Soňa Marková also apologizes today, on Friday, 16 September, for personal reasons, for the whole day, for reasons of work from 9.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Balaštíková apologises, and from 13 o'clock for personal reasons Mr Havíř apologises, and from 13 o'clock for reasons of work Mr Klaška apologizes. We'll continue with the approved program. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
