ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-013-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /house print 854/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-013-033.u2	Hello, Mr President, Members. First, this bill regulates the system of benefits of state social support, in particular the parental contribution, when we want it to be drawn even more flexibly than it is now, and thus that its drawing on it supports the possible early return of parents to employment. In particular, it is proposed that the upper limit of the parental allowance of CZK 11,500 is abolished, as is the case today, and it is possible to choose the amount of the benefit for parents who cannot be determined on a daily basis. At the same time, the condition for monitoring the attendance of a child in pre-school establishments is also abolished. At the same time, there is a cancellation of the possibility of receiving parental allowance to persons who are in custody of a child entrusted to foster care for a transitional period, because they receive both a foster allowance and a parallel parental allowance, so they draw twice. The definition of the child's continuous preparation for future occupation is further clarified here, while the payment process of the remaining amount of the parental contribution from the total amount is simplified administratively. And just to explain, if you've read it all pretty carefully, there's an original proposal that was submitted to the government, but the government has leaked an adjustment on parental rotation in receiving parental allowance in case of alternating care. Secondly, the Government has not approved an adjustment for repealing the provisions containing an adjustment as a result of non-compliance with compulsory schooling of a child, where parental allowance can be withdrawn. So I'm asking for your support, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-013-033.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am now asking the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-013-033.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have five minutes, so I know you don't listen much, yet a few words on this proposal. I would like to stress that this is a recurring benefit, the original aim of which was to contribute to the beneficiary in a situation where, due to the care of the youngest child in the family, she had reduced earnings. Madam Secretary said what's in the bill, but I'll say what we or I don't like about the law. The law slightly deforms the purpose for which the benefit, that is, the allowance for parents, is for the needs of a parent who, as a result of proper care for the child, cannot secure income from his own work. If the parental allowance is paid for at least six months, it would be CZK 33 580 in 2016. These are people with above-average incomes, and yet I think there is a reason for the adjustment to support successful women in motherhood. The State social support system should in particular compensate for the necessary reduction in income due to the adverse social situation in the family. Cancellation of fixed monthly benefits is argued by the petitioner among others. feelings of discrimination in beneficiaries. However, these are economically inactive people, as stated, i.e. non-working, students and self-employed persons who do not pay for sickness insurance on the basis of their own decision. No evaluation of the impact that this change in the parental contribution will have on both the beneficiary and the founder is calculated anywhere. Increased expenses. What are increased expenditures, as reported by the MPSV in the early years. What I don't like at all is that in a shorter period of time it will be possible to make a contribution to the most socially weak families, which may result in these weaker social groups with lower literacy being able to consume this amount within a short period of time and subsequently get into financial problems. This could subsequently be reflected by increased intake of benefits of assistance in material distress. In addition, pressure may be imposed on local authorities in terms of the need to increase the capacity of pre-school facilities for children by shortening the time of drawing. This measure may, in particular, affect municipalities as the founder of public childcare facilities. [[18.40 hours]] On the contrary, what I like very much is that the proposal correctly cancels the payment of the parental allowance of foster parents for a transitional period, but the validity is from 1. 1. 2017. In order to avoid further unnecessary parental benefit, I would have allowed the effectiveness of the change to the date of publication to be shifted, as it would have paid one more year to a transitional foster child who would have started to receive it in December 2016. So I made it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-013-033.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. You made it, but I will not open a general debate. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I am interrupting this item and interrupting the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by tomorrow morning, when we will continue with the answers to the written interpelations. Have a good evening.
