ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that half of my absence has been asked by these Members and Members of the Government: Mr Adamec - a foreign trip, Mr Adámek - a foreign trip, Mrs Balaštíková - health Šánová, Mr Běhounek until half past three - working Skalický, Mr Benešík - a foreign trip, Mr Birke without a reason, Mrs Bohdalová from half three to six - personal Sedláček, Mrs Dobešová from half three - Pastuchová Putnová, Mr Gabal until 11:00 - working grounds, Mr Gabrhel within half three - working Zemánek, Mr Havíř until eleventh and half three - personal Lorencová, Mrs Havlová - health sedlář, Mr Holík until 10:00 - working Rykala, Mrs Opálka - medical reasons, Mr Kádner between 11.00 and Mr Kalousek - health reasons, Mr Kott - working Kořenek, Mr Lobkowicz - a Member - a Member of Nykl - a Member of the Velebný Pleticha - a Member of the European Parliament - a Member of the European Parliament, on grounds of the European Parliament, on the Schwarz of the European Parliament - on the grounds ofhealth , on 11th workinghours , on 11th of the 11th workinggrounds , on the 11th workingVálková , on the 11th workinggrounds , on the 11th and 13.00 - workinggrounds , on the workinggrounds , Mr Káček - workinggrounds , on the workinggrounds , on the workinggrounds , MrKář. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government for working reasons, Minister Babiš - foreign travel, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - working reasons, Minister Chovanec - foreign travel, Minister Marksová - working reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý - foreign travel, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - foreign travel. In addition, the apology of Vice-President Jermanová came from 9 to 13 for work reasons. Mrs Kovářová apologises for today's meeting until 9:30 for personal reasons and Mr Mr Kovářová He did not apologize today from 2:30 p.m. to the end of the day and on Friday all day, for reasons of work. So many apologies. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 201, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations can be submitted by 11 p.m. and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. So I'm opening up a point.
