ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on Firearms and Firearms (Gunarms Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 677/ - Second reading My colleague Roman Váňa, as rapporteur for the Security Committee, is already in place. I shall ask for the attention of Mr Bronislav Schwarz and Mr Antonín Seďa, who are the rapporteurs of the other committees. I would now ask the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec, to state the bill on behalf of the government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, at first reading, I have presented in very detail the Government's proposal for an amendment to the arms law and other related laws, so let me briefly remind him of it in the second reading. Following events in Vrbětice, the handling of ammunition by civil entities is newly regulated. The handling of ammunition will be modified separately within the framework of the Firearms Act. There will also be the introduction of separate ammunition certificates and licences. Their holders will have to meet stricter conditions and fulfil stricter obligations than the holders of arms certificates and licences. The storage of ammunition and its conditions of use are being modified completely. However, this regulation will require the adoption of extensive implementing legislation for its full functionality. For this reason, an annual delay in its effectiveness is proposed for the amendment of the legislation on the handling of ammunition. Changes to other legislation contained in this proposal, i.e. the Fire Protection Act, Trade Act and the Act on the Management of Safety Materials, the Act on pyrotechnics and the Act on Administrative Charges, are also related to the new regulation on the handling of ammunition. [[17.40 hours]] The second series of amendments to the Arms Act responds to the shooting in Uherský Brod. This attack, in which eight people died, was committed by the holder of an arms license. For all sorts of suspicious indications in his behavior, the police have already begun to take steps to withdraw his weapons license. Unfortunately, there were, however, completely no tools for a stronger and more effective approach in a matter that could possibly save people's lives lost. Such instruments are being put in place by the proposed proposal. This is primarily about enabling more effective control of the holders of arms certificates, increasing the controlability of the medical fitness of the holders of arms certificates. The proposed system should respond targeted to the health problems of arms holders. In addition, a police authorisation is introduced to pre-detain weapons, in the event of reasonable doubt as to the medical fitness of the holder of the arms licence and the weapon itself. These changes should be put into practice as soon as possible. Therefore, the proposal provides for effect on the 15th day following its publication. The proposal was dealt with in detail by the Security Committee, the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee. Both the Security Committee and the Defence Committee have adopted their amendments, which I will comment on in detail later. However, I can say that I agree with the amendments adopted by the Security Committee, but with the amendment of the Defence Committee, which releases the police's authorisation to enter homes and other places, unless the person surrenders the weapons held or secured by it or allows them to be taken over by the police, I cannot agree. This would completely devalue the legislator's intention to provide the police with greater opportunities and powers in this matter. The Government's proposal is intended solely to ensure that, where there is a reasonable suspicion of a change in the condition of the holder of the arms licence, any police officer can secure his weapon in the context of an emergency police operation, only if that person poses a threat to himself, to his life or to other people's lives. The Government's proposal also covers weapons held by companies for which a major error was detected during the state control, or for persons who lost the validity of the arms licence, the weapons did not surrender or hold these weapons illegally. By releasing the provisions in question, there may be a situation where the police do not reach the weapons whose holders pose a real danger in time. I dare say that this practice would involve dozens of weapons a year. It won't be a mass measure for police to confiscate weapons. Each such operation will, of course, subsequently be subject to inspection if this measure is not infected by the Police of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and I'm ready for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u3	Thank you, Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Defence Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 677/1 to 4. I will ask the first rapporteur, Mr Roman Váňa, for the Security Committee, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The Security Committee discussed the draft law at its 27th meeting on 24 March and adopted a resolution recommending the adoption of the draft law as amended by the amendments adopted by the Security Committee. With the fact that it must be said that the cornerstone of this law is indeed a new power for the Police of the Czech Republic to secure weapons when there is a reasonable suspicion of the loss of the medical fitness of the holder of the arms licence. A proposal has been tabled to revoke this power, but this proposal has not been supported within the Security Committee. The things that went through were in the context of what the Minister said in the beginning. It should be noted that, despite the fact that this law itself is very strict with the holders of arms certificates, but at the same time balanced within their rights and obligations, a legislative gap was found that if a person loses, and clearly, the medical fitness, popularly said, goes crazy, the police had no legal authority to remove his weapon immediately at a time when the person has not committed or threatened anything, it was only obvious that he had lost his medical fitness. In that case, it was necessary to initiate an administrative procedure in which the person concerned could delay various delays at the time when he had to surrender his weapons. And, of course, at such a time, anything could have happened. The law addresses this problem in a fundamental way when it gives the Police of the Czech Republic the power to secure the weapon immediately, first to call on the citizen to surrender it, and if he fails to do so, then to ensure it, wherever it is, even if it is located in his home. It is the cornerstone of the safety of this law. Other measures mentioned in the draft law, e.g. shortening the validity of the arms licence, the possibility of practical doctors entering the central register of weapons, etc., assessed the Security Committee in the context of introducing this new authorisation for the Police of the Czech Republic, which can deal with the situation already as redundant. Therefore, the Security Committee has approved amendments in which weapons certificates remain valid for the current ten years, where no direct access by doctors to the central arms register is granted. They will only be able to ask the Police of the Czech Republic whether or not the person in question holds an arms license. The Security Committee also accepted amendments by Members who had no technical justification in the current law. This is therefore a permit for the use of laser sightings. Furthermore, although virtually never used, but I think symbolically a very significant change. The Security Committee has approved that the Czech Government's authority to impose a war threat on citizens should be removed from the existing law, ordering them to surrender their legally held weapons. After consulting the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, it was said that the democratic government does not really need such authorisation, that it is a relic from past times. Given that the authorisation of the Police of the Czech Republic to secure the weapon on the spot is indeed an exceptional means, the Security Committee recommended in its amendment that in such a measure a member of the service of the Department of Weapons and Security Material should always be present as a specialist who is knowledgeable of both the holders of arms certificates and the handling of weapons, etc., it will also have accurate information on the type, number of weapons, etc. This applies to the emergency weapons provision cases in the event of a loss of medical fitness. It doesn't concern a case where a man, the holder of an arms license, violates the arms and ammunition law. In such a case, any police officer on the scene shall be entitled to remove the weapon. In addition, the Security Committee modified the conditions for the performance of state fire surveillance and the powers of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic in connection with the implementation of effective checks, which are introduced in the context of the checks on storage and handling of ammunition. [[17.50 hours]] Another amendment is a change in the deadline for businesses in the field of weapons and ammunition to report the transport of weapons and ammunition, which was so far 24 hours before the shipment. We propose to shorten this deadline to one hour. This is based on the practice where routes and vehicles for transport are actually established in this way before the journey. Since it is entered into the central weapons register and the information is available to the Police of the Czech Republic online, it is sufficient. So much for the amendments to the Security Committee, which are set out in the Houses of the Press 677/4. So please study, if necessary, the literal wording of these amendments within the framework of this House's press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u5	I thank Mr Roman Váňa as rapporteur for the Security Committee. And now I ask Mr Bronislav Schwarz, who is the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u6	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. The Constitutional Committee also discussed, on 17 March, the said law. We have discussed it properly, we have discussed it and we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve it without amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u7	I thank the rapporteur and now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Mr Antonín Seďa, to inform us also of the committee's deliberations. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u8	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Minister. I would like to introduce you to Resolution No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 677. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the First Deputy Minister of Interior for the Management of the Internal Security Section of Dr. Jiří Nováček, the report by Mr. Antonín Sed and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, as amended, and other related laws, House Press No. 677, as amended by these amendments. - It's five amendments. The proposals referred to in resolution No 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7 (2). 149 under points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I'm not gonna repeat them here. II. The Committee on Defence instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. III. The Defence Committee requires the chairman of the Committee to submit a resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. So much for the intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. That's how we ran out of news reports. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Ivan Gabal signed up. Mr Brázdil is actually reporting, but, of course, only during the debate, because there is really nothing to do. prosit, Mr Gabal is the first member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies, gentlemen, government, I have spent quite a long time discussing with my colleague Marian Jurečka a matter that I would like to give you to consider, and that is the question of placing regular psychological tests as a solid part of the health assessment of a candidate for possession of a weapon. Finally, under the influence of the international European comparison which the Parliamentary Institute has drawn up for us, we have decided to prepare such an amendment. I will then join him in a detailed debate, but I would say a few words here to clarify or interpret your consideration. By the way, the comparison processed by the Parliamentary Institute is part of the amendment, so you can take a closer look at it for a more detailed study. I think there's about four or five serious arguments. First, psychological fitness or psychological fitness can be considered as the most important part of the medical fitness for possession of a weapon. This is evident in international comparison, particularly where, according to the current study of the Parliamentary Institute, a number of European countries require a psychological test. Finland, France, Portugal, Austria, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain and, most of all, Israel. Secondly, we verify psychological fitness in a number of professions, in the field of transport, security, defence and so on, that is, it should logically belong to the ability to hold a gun, let alone use it. Thirdly, of course, it is not possible to look away from the tragic events in our recent years, which suggest that a more precise examination involving psychological fitness is desirable, virtually. it could fulfil the role of necessary prevention. On the contrary, the psychological examination required only in ad hoc cases may escalate the risk situation. Fourthly, the cost of psychological examination is estimated somewhere between CZK 1,500 and CZK 2,000 based on comprehensive verification. This means that they are not extreme or excessive with regard to the protection of the lives of citizens, and the risks arising from a condition where physical psychological fitness has not been or has not been assessed. Fifthly, due to legal certainty, the obligation to demonstrate the psychological capacity of the possession of the arms of existing holders is only to be imposed in transitional provisions at the moment of expiry of the existing arms licence. As much... as Marian Jurečka and I argued. I'll sign up for it later. Then another amendment, where I will represent my colleague Jurečka, concerns the obligation of doctors to examine a patient who finds a binding malfunction or a reasonable suspicion of whether or not he is a holder of an authorisation or an arms licence. I will also do this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u11	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr Milan Brázdil's point of order now, and then Mr Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to thank the Home Secretary for not being criminalized by doctors, for not being obliged to look into a registry and actually be responsible for the fact that the person has or doesn't have an I.D. and that he hasn't reported anything. Well, thank you so much for all the doctors. However, on the part of my colleague Gabal, through the President, I would say that psychological testing, so a doctor who gives such welfare on a regular basis and signs under it, so a doctor at his undergraduate studies is familiarizing himself with many sectors, including psychiatry and also medical psychology. I mean, if you want, why don't we put in some rehab workers? If he can handle the hand, he can handle the faucet. Sounds really out of order to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u13	I thank Mr Brázdil for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now in a proper application for a general debate, Mr Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u14	Mr Vice-President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my doubts as to whether those proposals which are the cornerstone of the bill presented and which consist in the possibility of removing the weapon from its legal holder on suspicion of whether his health is appropriate in order to hold the weapon and to dispose of it properly. I feel that every time a thing like this happens that happened to us that was very tragic, there's always a whole series of measures that should make the possession of a gun very difficult. Even so, the possession of a weapon is very strictly regulated today. The person who wants to acquire the weapon must undergo a rather complex process, and we are also laying down other and other measures here. That's why I'm expressing my doubts about it. Two. I'm not quite sure if these measures are really effective. I understand that the reason is to protect potential victims or people who might be affected by the improper conduct of the weapon holder, but the question is whether this will lead to the goal. There's definitely, I'd say, a huge amount of experience from a country where possession of a gun is actually part of constitutional order, from the United States. Even there, when such tragic things occur, a wave of resistance to legal possession of weapons rises. In my view, the situation that may be ahead of us is not right for us to question somehow the right to hold a gun. On the contrary, many people try to acquire a weapon while aware of what our society may be threatening and, in my view, may complicate their decisions. Of course, the possibility of possessing a weapon and knowing that, if necessary, the weapon can only be a guarantee by its existence is good in my opinion, and we should be conservatively cautious in supporting it. Finally, lastly, I would like to say that, in general, I do not agree with how we approach such things as the common good, how we defend the general good, we restrict freedom. And here I have several times mentioned cutting down a tree in the garden or again many times mentioned efforts to anchor into the law the control of who is drowning in his boiler in the house. Sure, it's not the same, it's not the same. But I felt it my duty to speak up as one voice here in the House with my doubts. I will think very carefully between reading second and third, how I will then take this proposal, and I will consider very well how I will finally vote on the proposal that the rapporteur has interpreted here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u15	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Chalupa, then with a proper application, if I understand correctly, Mr Chalup...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we're discussing here. I think that, like everything else, this law is a matter of compromise. I judge the law very well. I am definitely in favour of holding weapons, for as many weapons as possible, which will rightly be held, so that the people who hold them are trained. In this context, I just want to point out in this factual remark that our number of shooting galleries is falling, and if we have people who will legally hold weapons and are unable to train with them and learn how to control them, so that it is effective and correct, the effect will not occur. I also ask the Health Committee to review the Ministry of Health's decree on the protection of the health of people and the population, where there is talk of decibel limits for the operation of shooting galleries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u17	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Now with proper application by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u18	Hello, thank you for your word. I'm going to join Mr. Zahradník so he doesn't feel like the only lonely voice in this House. I would really like to point out and point out that with every other law coming into this House, we are getting rid of a piece of freedom. With every other law. Measured by the optics of this law, the individual law, of course, is never significant. It sounds here: it's "just," it's important, the honest have nothing to worry about. That's the most dramatic sentence I've heard quite often before 1989: the honest have nothing to fear, the decent have nothing to fear. Every other law there is some kind of restriction. Now here comes Minister Chovanec, instead of solving problems in the Police of the Czech Republic and the Czech Post, which he has in the breakup, so he comes, quite I would say, with a law that may be responding to a problem. I quite understand. On the other hand, we're losing a bit of freedom here again, where the police will be able to enter our home to hold a weapon. He has already mentioned a colleague here correctly, one day the Police of the Czech Republic will come to hold the gun. The next day you'll find some, as I call it, Brabcův's squad to the apartment to check if you happen to burn a plastic bag of snacks there, because of course it hurts, too, and it bothers people. It bothers people, too. That's where Brabcův's commando comes in. On the third day, some ministerial official from the Ministry of Finance will cut off your website, because the site is probably connected to some gambling and the minister will think that you of all people could run the gambling. So it goes on and on. We take that authority, and that's essential, that authority from the court, from the court decisions, from the administrative decisions, and we move it to the individualities. This means that today the courts are not deciding whether we operate the site legally or illegally, but the individuals will decide. And I want to point that out. I think the trend is bad, it's like that, I'll say, maybe agrosocialist, but I definitely want to take a stand against it. I think and, unfortunately, I'm afraid that's not the last law, the last amendment to the law, when we get rid of a piece of freedom again. Unfortunately, there will be even more amendments here by the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u19	I thank Mr Kučer. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. It's not like that. Before I begin a detailed debate, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Milan Šarapatka, Mrs Kveta Matušovská and Mrs Jana Lorencová, apologizes until the end of the meeting between 19 and 21 o'clock. I am initiating a detailed debate and the first Mr Ivan Gabal is entered into it. Colleague Chalupa is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u20	Thank you. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for Amendment Gabal-Jurečka 4095 and for Amendment Marian Jurečka on his behalf 4093. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Chalupa, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendment 4096. It is my amendment. I dare to read it. In Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b) and (e) are proposed to add the words "military police" after the words "armed forces of the Czech Republic" and in Section 1 para. 3 in Section 42 (2) and in Section 42a, it is proposed that the words "military police" be added after the words "armed forces of the Czech Republic." I justify this amendment by means of Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on the Armed Forces of the Czech Republic, in the provision of Section 3 para. 2 defines the forces of the armed forces. Military police and military intelligence are not among these forces. Since the Military Police operate under special law number 300/2013 Coll., on the Military Police and on the amendment of certain laws, the Military Police Act, in its operation uses among others. weapons, ammunition and ammunition appear necessary to naming the Military Police as an entity to which Act No. 119/2002 Coll. does not apply. In addition to specifying the diction of the law itself, the proposal does not require any other changes or the cost of introducing it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-006-010.u23	I thank Mr Chalupa and ask if anyone is joining the debate in detail. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. [[He doesn't.]] Wow, newsletters? One, two, three, they're not interested in the final word. Since there was no proposal that we could vote on, I am also ending second reading of the press 677. I thank the rapporteurs, Mr Minister. The Minister will certainly remain at the rapporteur's table and speak. I will just ask Mr Vlastimil Vozka to prepare for his intelligence report. The next item is:
