ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u1	203. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis This item was dealt with on Thursday, 21 January, when we interrupted the general debate, and then on Tuesday, 26 January, when we adjourned its discussion until Friday, 12 February, until 9 o'clock. On 21 January, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka gave the introductory word. On this point on 21 January, the foundation material of the Ministry of Interior was distributed to the bench. I ask that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, or an authorised member of the government and designated rapporteur, take the position at the rapporteur's table, and that is Mr Jiří Mihola. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. [[Short silence.]] I repeat once again that I ask that the rapporteur of this point, Jiří Mihola, take his place at the rapporteur's table and that the Prime Minister, or an authorised member of the government, also take his place for this point. [[Short silence again.]] At the request of the President of the ODS, I state that, as Members with priority rights had previously been applied for, I have agreed with the legislation that I have to put them aside in order that those who do not have priority rights are listed as duly enrolled in the debate. I have priority rights here with registration - Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek, Jiří Mihola, Mr Lobkowicz - he apologizes today. I have Mrs Němcová here, but instead... Petr Fiala, Mr Černoch and Vice Prime Minister Babiš. I'm gonna read some more of the note cards that came to me. From 9 o'clock until the end of the meeting, for health reasons, Mr Mackovík apologizes, from 9 o'clock today for the reasons of the ministry, due to the fire at the National Museum, the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman apologizes, and from 9 to 11 o'clock today for the reasons of work, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes. [[Short silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since I am discussing preferential rights with the President of the ODS, and we are not in agreement, I will be forced to interrupt the meeting for three minutes to clarify the order, and then we will continue. We'll continue with 9.12 minutes. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss this point. First of all, Members and Ministers with priority rights shall appear. The rapporteur of this point, Jiří Mihola, will be the first to speak. Mrs Němcová, with the opinion of the ODS, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u3	Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me start by saying two essential things. Firstly, according to KDU-ČSL MEPs, the government is handling the migration crisis well, both at national and European level. In this I count also the reaction of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to the New Year's Eve violence in Cologne, when he supported the call for an extraordinary meeting of the European Council. And secondly, from the last House resolution to migration 1. 10. 2015 has changed significantly, and unfortunately for the worse. The migration wave is not only not falling, but is threatening to increase further, while the European Union is still out of control. The escalation of the situation in Syria and the uncertainty about Turkey's behaviour are making everything worse. For these reasons, the KDU-ČSL MEP proposed the inclusion of a point on the migration crisis at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. On the one hand, we want to support the government and give a strong mandate to the Prime Minister to negotiate migration at European Union level - I remind you that the European Council summit will take place next week, on the 18th of February - and, on the one hand, we want to give him the opportunity to discuss a serious situation and new threats not only within the coalition, but across the political spectrum. We believe that when it comes to such a serious problem that concerns the Czech Republic, the opposition will also support the government and the coalition must also be interested in obtaining support from the opposition. I don't want to repeat familiar things here. After all, we have already discussed many matters in detail about migration. What is important, however, is the change in the political view that is taking place in Western countries, particularly in the Federal Republic of Germany, under the impression of unprecedented violence against women who have been mass-operated asylum seekers in Germany, and also under the pressure of reports that migration will continue to curl up and that there is a risk that millions or ten million more refugees will want to enter the European Union. It is quite obvious that in a short period of time, Europe cannot bear such an attack and is in danger of disrupting the social, political and legal system of the countries of the European Union. In response to the number and violent behaviour of asylum seekers, Germany is now approaching severe restrictions, including the threat of border closure and the return of refugees to the countries from which they came to Germany. Other countries are responding to this and preparing similar measures. The Czech Republic is currently facing a dam effect. If there is a definitive and complete closure of the German border before the external Schengen border is secured, then our territory can very quickly become one of the migration flows. Today, and thanks to responsible government actions, it is no longer. After all, already in the 1990s and early millennia, tens of refugees flowed to us. At the time, the Czech Republic was not yet in the EU and had its borders guarded. [[9.20 hours]] I could now inform and discuss things that may not be so well known in the media, especially in relation to the Federal Republic of Germany. Perhaps you have heard or read the resolution adopted by the government's CDU in Mainz, the so-called Mainz or Mainz resolution. It is eight points where it is really clear that Germany is changing its stance on migration very radically. But we also accept this change of opinion in the resolution that we have prepared, which I would now like to present as a result of joint efforts or cooperation between KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ČSSD, and I believe will join the support of other parties as well. Now on this motion for a resolution, which is already being read in the system as House document 3721: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. appreciates the current steps and proposals of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the issue of the migration crisis and evaluates them as responsible, II. Expresses concern about the fact that the European Union, in cooperation with other countries, has failed to effectively control migration flows and significantly reduce them; III. Asks the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate urgent and effective measures at the European Council summit on 18 February 2016 to help address the causes and consequences of the migration crisis, IV. calls for the promotion of measures which take into account the condition of ensuring the security of the European Union countries, while creating sufficient humanitarian capacity to assist refugees outside the European Union; V. considers it essential to ensure, in particular, the control of the external borders of the Schengen area, and it is therefore necessary that the common border and coast guard be established in a capacity capable of ensuring this objective, VI. continues to reject the introduction of a mandatory refugee redistribution mechanism; VII. Asks the Government of the Czech Republic to analyse the current changes to the positions and follow-up of the Member States of the European Union, in particular Germany, on the issue of addressing the migration crisis, which may, for example, trigger changes to migration routes with a direct impact on the Czech Republic, and, if necessary, prepare measures that respond adequately to the expected impact on the Czech Republic. I beg your support for these resolutions and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u4	Thank you, too. Before Mrs Němcová comes forward with the club's position, I have here a factual comment by Mr Okamura. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked you here before to stop using that term as refugees. They are illegal - illegal - immigrants to Europe. So today we're going to have this debate on immigration. Please, let's just use the right dates. No refugees, they're illegal immigrants, and that's how it needs to be treated. That's what I've been meaning to ask you. But also in response to President Mihola. I would therefore like to clarify the statements made by government representatives here in the following speeches. I merely recall the statement of the Governor of Pardubice, the Netolický Region, who said - and I quote - that he is in favour of receiving immigrants, but the town of Rabbit is not a suitable location. So there we have already worked things out with the citizens and other partners, such as the People's Rights Party. But I would therefore like one of the top representatives of the ČSSD to say that it is for the reception of migrants, but the town of Rabbit is not an appropriate location for the following performance, because I know that with priority rights there are government officials, so we have finally been told which locality in the Czech Republic or which localities are therefore the appropriate ones. After all, we know that you have already agreed in the order of thousands of illegal immigrants, more than a thousand, so we want to know, and citizens of the Czech Republic where you want to place them. I've already asked Prime Minister Sobotka twice about this for the last two weeks. He has not once answered me what places you will therefore identify, what criteria are, so that citizens can prepare and defend themselves, and we will, of course, help them in this, our SPD movement, to defend themselves, but so finally say here, where and when and how much overall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u6	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. First Mr Šarapatka and Mr Jakubčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment on the motion for a resolution by President Mihola. I don't think you can say a word against him. I agree with everything. The only thing I'm missing in there is precision. I believe that we need to learn here from government officials what concrete steps they will take or what they have prepared for specific situations. This means, if it is real to protect the Schengen border, what contingent, how we contribute to this protection. And if this protection of the Schengen area fails, how will we protect our borders, what numbers of soldiers, what means, where do we take the money? If we decide to accept some number of immigrants, from which sources they will pay, where they will live, where their children will learn the Czech language, where they will be employed. We need to learn concrete facts and start discussing, not just staying on the surface. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u8	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Jakubčík, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution that President Mihola has read here is a resolution on which several members of Parliament have agreed in cross-cutting terms with this House. I'll follow up on Mr. Šarapatka here. Yes, there are no specific matters, but I think this is a political statement. This is not about setting specific numbers of soldiers, some numbers of security forces, etc. I think that these figures will be mentioned here in the report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will certainly comment on this. I would ask you to approve this motion for a resolution, which the President here has read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u10	Thank you. Mr Šarapatka's point of fact, then President Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u11	I won't hold up. I agree with that remark. However, in order to adopt resolutions, there simply needs to be specific data here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u12	Thank you. Now, Chairman Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that the proposal of my colleague Mihola, respectively. The proposal that Mr Mihola has read here is the consensus of more parliamentary clubs. It also seems to me that the motion for a resolution is a proposal that can, without a doubt, be voted on. I personally believe that most of the points that are there are exactly in the position of the political statement that needs to be communicated by this Chamber of Deputies. [[9.30 hours]] Along with my colleague Šarapatka, but before I decide how to vote, how to proceed to individual points, I would also like to hear, say, the intestines, the specific measures that are being prepared. And believe me, it is not only that I want to hear something more specific, but that citizens expect not only that political statement from the Chamber of Deputies, but that citizens of the Czech Republic will also learn more specific steps that the government is preparing in this discussion. As far as the voting mechanism itself is concerned, after the information I believe will be heard here, I would like to ask that, whether it has not already been done by someone else or not, the vote on the motions for resolutions, if there are others, should be voted on on a case-by-case basis, as set out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u14	Thank you. And now, with the club's opinion, Mrs Němcová will speak, the President of the Fiala will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u15	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a strange coincidence that I am representing you with the opinion of the Citizen's Democratic Party MEP on 12 February 2016. This particular coincidence is that, just before 12 February 2015, the Chamber of Deputies adopted its first resolution on the migration crisis. The other, for your reminder, we accepted 1. The 10th of last year. If I return to the first resolution, i.e. if I return exactly a year ago, then I will recall what was then considered important by the Chamber of Deputies. I will just say with a sigh that, in the meantime, a year has passed and the situation has not improved, on the contrary, it has dramatically deteriorated. So the Chamber of Deputies, in addition to taking note a year ago of the government's information on the situation of security and immigration, asked the Government, in point II, to keep the House informed of the positions it would advocate in all foreign negotiations dealing with security and immigration policy. A moment ago, in the words of the rapporteur, President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Mihola, we heard about this, and I am grateful that the KDU-ČSL pushed for the inclusion of a point on migration at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. But I'm sorry, it's the only way to deal with it. The Chamber of Deputies deposited something with the government, told her that she should keep informed of all the positions that she will take in foreign negotiations, and it is not a dignified Chamber of Deputies to demand, plead, negotiate, I do not know how long she has always worked for, many months, for the government to carry out the task given by the Chamber of Deputies. That is the second point of our resolution. I will remind you of the point at which, at the fourth point, we rejected mandatory quotas a year ago following the reception of refugees in individual Member States of the European Union. If, now, in the resolution prepared by a part of the Chamber of Deputies, this item is also proposed and, I will remind you, it is also contained in the resolution of 1. 10th last year, even twice, I think it is redundant and is sufficient if the Chamber of Deputies states something once. If a government requires a different mandate, it does not want to fulfil this mandate, it must ask for another mandate and another mandate to be promoted here. Otherwise, don't be mad at me for saying this a bit obnoxious, it's beating up empty straw. We don't bring anything new, we don't broadcast any soothing to the public, because what we've been talking about for a year and things aren't getting better, but they're getting worse, we can't move it somewhere by just repeating it here. We also had a resolution here on the Government's consistent focus on the BIS reports on the security risks arising from the financing of Islamic fundamentalism in the Czech Republic, and we also had a resolution on promoting the free movement of persons within the Schengen area. A year ago, we rejected proposals to restrict the Schengen area. If I'm about to look at the situation with one year's distance now, then if there's something seriously threatened and it looks like destruction, it's the Schengen area. We can raise our wishes here to preserve it, to make arguments for why it would be good for citizens, for business, for political negotiations between states, but the factual situation seems to be crumbling rather than strengthening itself. The external borders of Schengen, which we are talking about all the time, is the basis for the European Union to cope with, not be protected and not be protected at all. Hotspots do not work, and when they work, they only act as a caricature of what should happen in protecting the EU's sovereign borders. As far as Frontex is concerned, the reports that we are getting today about the fact that Frontex may finally be staffed or possibly materially strengthened do not indicate that the European Union's leaders have set their priorities perfectly and can estimate what needs to be done at the moment. Those partial things, if two or three ships join to protect the border and some people join Frontex, will certainly not solve the situation. When we look at the current developments, and aside from the tragic events in Cologne, which may have been a necessary and necessary acceleration of the European debate on this subject, I said clearly when I look at the developments - the border is not protected. Hotspots do not work, Frontex is not strengthened and Madam Secretary of State Mogherini is completely failing. I will just add to the footnote that she was visiting here, perhaps at that time it would be appropriate for the government to inform us of the conclusions that this meeting brought. I don't think it was worth the meeting in the House, or the government would probably have approached us with it. It must be said that the rise in extremist movements throughout Europe is a secondary and very unfortunate and dangerous product of European institutions' inactivity. Last time the debate in the Chamber of Deputies was launched, we, as the Civil Democratic Party, drew attention to the current developments, which mainly consist in what is happening among the European Union's main representatives. British Prime Minister David Cameron has come before the European Union asking for four areas to reform. This requirement makes it conditional on the continued UK in the European Union. At that time, in a debate that took place about a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister told me that it had nothing to do with the migration crisis, the UK's position. I am convinced that it is related because the idea of Britain leaving the European Union will be abandoned by one of the stones without which the whole structure cannot hold together, it will fall apart, and we are already seeing some reflections and looking at maps in various magazines that represent variations in future developments. In one variant it is called. The Czech Republic is painted with narrower Schengen, so it consists of countries around Germany and the Czech Republic is painted to that effect, but it is no longer there for example. from the Visegrad Group or Germany (?) neither Hungary nor Poland. In another variant it appears that there is no one from Visegrad group, i.e. the Czech Republic. In this context, it is necessary not to ask the government whether we are to accept quotas or not to accept quotas. We have a resolution on that. It is necessary to ask the Government if it is conducting negotiations on some other European Union arrangement. What kind of meetings was she in? What did she find out? What variants is he working with? Who's he talking to? These questions are more recent than what we said here a year ago. The situation has evolved elsewhere, and we need to respond to what's happening right now. That is why the Civil Democratic Party will want to know the Prime Minister's opinion, especially how he imagines the future of the European Union, how he works with variations that appear, what actions he has conducted, for example. with representatives of Germany, because they play a big part in this. And when we look at Chancellor Angela Merkelová's position, which, for example, After a recent visit to Turkey, he again says: we will accept other refugees from Syria, but we will accept them by redistributing them further. This means that she does not develop particularly in her attitudes. [[9.40 hours]] Is she being treated by someone from the Czech Government? Isn't this just the meeting we recorded in the media through Czech and German officials - ask what would the Chancellor like to hear so we can say at the meeting? Well, that's not gonna help us either, that kind of attitude. So we want to hear from the Prime Minister at this point in time the answers to serious questions about the demands of Great Britain, how Poland deals with the response to these demands of Great Britain, because we know that Poland initially rejected them, especially the requirement to limit social benefits - in those four requests of Great Britain, that is the fourth requirement. The first is to strengthen the competitiveness of the European Union and reduce red tape. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position as to whether he will face this and support the UK. Secondly, Britain wants to strengthen the powers of national parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are members of national parliaments, and it is in our interest that these powers be strengthened. I want to know how the Prime Minister will support this position in foreign negotiations or not. There is also the demand of Great Britain for economic governance, i.e. ensuring the rights of states that do not pay the euro. Is it in the interest of the Czech Government to support Great Britain in this request, too, and will it do so? These are the things that interest us, including the fact that the Polák demand that they support the Great Britain, the greater presence of NATO in Central Europe. Will the Czech Republic also require this? Does she have any other options prepared that she would require to support the UK's position? What these variants are, we would need to know, because it all belongs to the mosaic, which is still called the European Union, which is still protected, albeit quite poorly, by a common external border and whose fate hangs in the balance. We, in the resolution that we propose, will accentuate what I have just mentioned, namely the support of British demands and the support of the Polish party for NATO's greater presence in Central Europe. And on that resolution that was proposed here by President Mihola, I must say that it is precisely the effort that has shown itself here on 1 October 2015, i.e. not to say anything in such a nice language. I understand that it is difficult to formulate a resolution that would be precise and which would lead to some clear action by the government, but it is the task of the Chamber of Deputies. For this reason, the Civil Democratic Party will not be able to accept some of the points of the resolution as presented. Not because it is opposed at all costs, but because some things seem redundant to us. For example, putting the emphasis once again on the compulsory redistribution of refugees - we already have that three times in two resolutions, there is no need to say that for the fourth time. But, for example, what bothers us is the generality when - here I am looking at point 4 - this resolution calls for enforcement of measures that will take into account the condition of ensuring the security of the European Union countries. So please, we should know the precautions. Because I have the impression that when Europe flows into the shoes, there were certainly a number of forums and a number of capacities were thinking about which measures could not lead us out of this situation, but at least mitigate the terrible risks ahead of us. And that's why I don't consider these vague wordings sufficient. It is a proposed resolution, which I understand was a compromise, so that the parties involved in its preparation can agree on something. But it doesn't give the government a specific mandate. It will not be able to rely on such a resolution in foreign fora, and for this reason I do not consider that it is a resolution that would push us further forward at this time. This is the position of the Civil Democratic Party. We call on the Government, therefore, to conclude, to do what the Chamber of Deputies requires it not to be begged and, preferably at the beginning of every proper meeting, the Prime Minister has spoken and his duty under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies has been fulfilled and he has informed us of the situation that is changing from day to day. So much for the Civil Democratic Party's position at the moment. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u16	Thank you. Mr Okamura will now speak with a point of fact and the President of the Fiala will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to my previous speaker. Yes, the European Union is indeed the cause of this crisis. As long as the Czech Republic is under the dictation of the European Union, the government will not solve anything. He's just gonna talk, and he doesn't have the courage to really resist this invasion. In this context, let me quote from the letter I received from Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, where he writes directly to me - I quote: If it is about relocation and relocation of refugees to the Czech Republic, respectively. to us, so the government committed itself to it within the framework of a Europe-wide agreement which it acceded to on the basis of its membership of the European Union. So the government is telling me right here that they are not rejecting illegal immigrants, but they have made a direct commitment to this within the framework of an agreement with the European Union. I got it in black and white, a letter from Bohuslav Sobotka. So that's the truth. In this context, I agree with what has been suggested here that the European Union is the problem. And you have rejected the proposal of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD for a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union for citizens to decide their own future here in the House. We've designed it three times. And you also rejected our petition this January for more than 100 thousand. citizens online and offline together who wanted such a referendum. And stop calming the fools. Cooperation with Turkey is an illusion. There is no Schengen anymore; there is no common protection of its borders. Frontex does not hinder the border, but organises the safe transport of immigrants to Europe. Immigration flows are supported by organisations paid by the European Union, various nonprofits. Police beat people in Germany who defend the fundamental right to their land. And you'll be debating here for as long as they rape and murder a bunch of radical Muslims. Again, I demand zero tolerance for illegal immigration to the Czech Republic. No taking migrants!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u18	Now, then, President Fiala with priority rights, and Minister Zaorálek will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have to start by sighing a little bit that the Prime Minister is not here, because many of the things I want to ask the government about concern the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who will defend the Czech Republic at the European Council. And, of course, I also respond to the Prime Minister's speech in this House on 21 January. However, I understand, of course, that there are some current political reasons why the Prime Minister is not here. And if, for example, he's taking a minister's resignation to the Castle, I am of course glad to apologize for his absence. I must say that the government is not so openly talking about what is happening in the context of the migration crisis at European level. And just the speech of Prime Minister Sobotka from January 21st confirmed it. The Prime Minister has flooded us with numbers, statistics and a detailed description of the current situation, things that, after all, everyone who is interested in the question knows from the media and does not need to know the same from the Prime Minister of the Czech Government. But the Prime Minister didn't tell us the real information that was relevant. We have heard various phrases here about a common European solution, but we have not yet heard the answer to two fundamental political and strategic issues that are being addressed in the European Union at this time in the context of the migration crisis and which will have an impact on the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and on our security. The first question is the future of the Schengen area, and the second question is the revision of the European asylum system. And I am very interested, and not only of course I am interested, it is also the citizens of the Czech Republic, not that it will be addressed, but what position will be taken in this solution by the Czech Republic, including how the government of the Czech Republic will stand up to the still existing and increasingly more likely variants of the permanent relocation mechanism of migrants. [[9.50 hours]] First of all, the first point - the Schengen area. The European Council is to discuss the Schengen evaluation report next week, the evaluation report prepared by the Commission. The informal meeting of the Interior Ministers, held on 25 January in Amsterdam, told us that we are witnessing the end of the Schengen area, at least in the form in which we know Schengen today. And actually, the solutions that were suggested there show that fences that are temporary now are to be made permanent fences. For the sake of clarity, there is, among other things, a revision of Article 26 of the Schengen Treaty which would allow States to extend internal border controls for up to two years. I remind everyone that countries still have this option for only six months. [[Noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this happens, this is a fundamental change in the functioning of the Schengen system. It is also a matter that can affect one of the fundamental freedoms on which the European Union is built.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u20	I apologise, Mr President, for entering into your speech, but I ask you, colleagues, to bring the discussions into the foyer. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u21	We are countries that know that various temporary measures are of a lasting nature. And I am interested in how the Government of the Czech Republic is doing about this proposal, which is very likely to be heard, how it stands. What's his opinion? Are we going to agree that the temporary measure from six months really extends to two years, which means it's actually forever? The government is constantly telling us how we are looking for a common European solution, how good it is, how we can rely on them, but about the fundamental European solutions that are being prepared, as I have shown here on one example, Parliament does not inform the Czech Republic, but it itself proposes solutions that are not European at all. I mean, for example, the initiative to strengthen the border line of Bulgaria-Macedonia-Greece. Yes, the idea has something to do with it, it can temporarily reduce the migration current on the western Balkan road in the short term. Of course, only until immigrants choose a different path, perhaps the Mediterranean one. He has something in mind that he can temporarily help Macedonia. This is a country that has long been torn down by internal instability. Definitely an uncontrolled immigration stream would contribute to the escalation of tensions, the escalation of the ethnic conflict in the south-eastern Balkans, and that is, of course, the last thing we need right now. But - and I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to this - it is not a European solution. And some of these sought-after pan-European solutions, using this procedure, will not be possible at all. Macedonia is not a member of the European Union and Bulgaria is not in Schengen. Frontex must not operate on this newly created border. So it's not a Union solution. It is a bilateral or multilateral solution. It is possible to agree on it, but it cannot be said as a pan-European solution. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because, firstly, the government is calling it a kind of EU solution, and secondly, in the case of Hungary and Croatia, the same government declared or referred to it as a non-conceptionary, non-European, little acceptable. And here she herself comes up with a similar idea, with the very same mechanism that she says will be European. I don't think he even realizes that some of the practices that are offered in Europe are not going to apply at all to the Macedonian-Bulgarian-Greecen border. An even more important aspect of this proposal, with which the Prime Minister or the Czech Government came up, I do not know who, so an even more important aspect is the de facto displacement of the border of the Schengen area and the de facto exclusion of Greece from the Schengen area. It's logical again. I do not have so much against it, if the Czech Government is aware of all the conventions that this means. So I ask the government, I ask the Prime Minister: Is this a change in the position of the Czech Government, which has always been covered by Schengen unity? Or am I to understand that the Czech Government is proposing that Schengen's borders move west? If so, okay. Of course it's possible. But it needs to be made clear. And if we do that, what are the consequences? According to conservative estimates of the United Nations High Commissionership for Refugees and Frontex, over 800,000 refugees have entered Europe via Greece. And estimates for this year assume that the migration wave will be even stronger. The United Nations High Commissionership, which is known for its conservative estimates, even speaks of three million migrants who could head for Europe. If we strengthen Greece, if we say Greece is not in the Schengen area, we have another border, so we need to ask ourselves what will happen to these people, especially in a situation where hotspots do not work. Despite all the spells about how many hotspots, how we put money on it, how three or five of them will work in Greece or how many, the practice is completely different. In Greece, there is only one man who works with great misery. And I ask the government: is it not by chance that the government is preparing the ground for the adoption of a permanent relocation mechanism, i.e. permanent migration quotas, by proposing to fence Greece, which will necessarily result in a humanitarian disaster? And the government will probably tell me here, the Prime Minister again, like when the quotas were accepted, he's gonna say to me again, "There's nothing like that on the agenda of the day." There's no talk of a permanent relocation mechanism at all. And I say, Prime Minister, you're wrong. The opposite is true. On Wednesday, 10 February, the European Commission published an evaluation report on the implementation of the migration agenda in the European Union. I know it's boring to read the news here, but responsible politicians should do it so they're not surprised. And Commission Vice Prime Minister Frans Timmermans said that - I quote: "Those in need of protection must apply in the first country of the European Union to enter, and, if necessary, they will be relocated to another Member State." Well, well. Quotas, the permanent relocation mechanism here is back on the table by the Commission. And the Commissioner for Migration adds that - I quote: "People who come to the Union and need protection will get it, but it is not up to them to decide where." These are the quotes from the Commission members from recent days, which, together with the evaluation report on the implementation of the migration agenda in the European Union, clearly show that the permanent relocation mechanism is on the table, that it is envisaged. My question to the government and Prime Minister Sobotka is all the more urgent as the Czech Republic stands up to this. I add that in December last year Sweden requested the inclusion of the States from which it is to be relocated and Austria requested exclusion from the obligation to participate in the relocation as a beneficiary State. Yesterday's decision by the North Atlantic Alliance to participate in the Aegean monitoring and reporting operation has been evaluated by some states as a breakthrough in the migration crisis, because captured refugees are to be returned to Turkey. In this context and in the context of talking about relocations, I would like to point out that we need to see this step in the context of the Commission initiative which, with Germany's support, wants to establish a massive voluntary redistribution mechanism for Syrian refugees from Turkey. Up to 400,000 people are being talked about. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. These are things that take place in the Union. These are the things that are being prepared. And all of these events and proposals that I've given you above go back to one single result, and they have one logic, and that is the mechanism of relocation quotas for refugees. [[10.00 hours]] And I ask the government repeatedly: how does the government intend to avoid repeating at European Union level the process of being overvoted by the European Union Council's machinery on relocation? On June 18, Prime Minister Sobotka admitted at the House's meeting on migration issues that the system of mandatory quotas is unacceptable and may also represent a dangerous precedent for the future. But the same Prime Minister Sobotka, 14 days later, tells the public that the government will accept mandatory quotas without protest and therefore accept this established precedent. On the basis of this experience, I ask: Where do the citizens of the Czech Republic have a guarantee that the government will not accept permanent relocation quotas? Where do they guarantee that the government will defend the interests of the Czech Republic really consistently? Where do they guarantee that the government of the Czech Republic will use all the possibilities it has to prevent the relocation mechanism from being adopted and from falling into the Czech Republic? And I'd like to hear a clear answer to that. In this context, and in the context of the issue of a permanent relocation mechanism, I also ask the Government about its position and proposals for an emerging revision of the asylum and/or Dublin system. The government must have a clear attitude. It must have a clear position now, because the Commission's proposal is due to be completed in March. This means that there are already consultations at work level, perhaps already at ministerial level, certainly at the administrative level and at the level of permanent representatives at the European Commission. From the previous speeches offered by individual government representatives to the public, however, no position of the government of the Czech Republic on this important issue can be derived. The government is traditionally disunited. The Vice Prime Minister of this government, who sits behind me on December 5 last year in an interview for one diary, claims that quotas are nonsense and are dead. [[Babiš]] However, ten days after that, the Prime Minister's mandate for the European Council meeting, in which the government allows - I quote - the introduction of the distribution of successful asylum seekers into all Member States of the Union. That's really hard to understand. I would also like to ask the Government what position it will take at the European Council on the competence of the new European Border and Coast Guard Agency, and what position it will have on the matter envisaged there, and this is an opportunity to operate on the territory of the Member State without its consent. The principle that is proposed there is totally unacceptable because it violates the basic rules or principles of a democratic state, but according to the government, and here I quote from the document tabled by the Committee on European Affairs, the proposal is quite decently settled - quite decently settled - with intervention in the sovereignty of the Member State. I think that such a government attitude is completely unacceptable. So either he's dealing with the sovereignty and it's not against it, or, as I think, it is against the sovereignty, and then the Czech government wouldn't be able to accept it. But what I would expect from the government and what I have also proposed to the Committee on European Affairs and what I propose here again is that the Government formally ask the Council's legal service to clarify competences in this matter and to publicly express its concern about interfering with national sovereignty. Which would be nothing original, nothing special, because the very same procedure that I propose, have already been used or used here has been applied by two partner countries of the Czech Republic within the Visegrad Group - Hungary and Poland. So my proposal towards the government is to ask the legal service to clarify competences and publicly express concern for interference with national sovereignty. The government's belief that the proposal to intervene in the sovereignty of a Member State is quite decent is based solely on the willingness of a Member State to cooperate. And that's not enough! I would like to draw the attention of the Government to Article 87 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union clearly states that operational cooperation between law enforcement authorities of the Member States must be based on the unanimous consent of the Council. The Council's unanimous consent. Furthermore, I would recall Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, which states that the Union - I quote - respects the equality of the State before the Treaties, respects the fundamental functions of the State, in particular those relating to ensuring territorial integrity and maintaining public order and protecting national security. It is clear here that not only against international law, not only against the usually understood sovereignty, but also against the definition of the sovereignty of the individual Member States of the European Union, the new proposal to set up a European border and Coast Guard comes into conflict with the principle of sovereignty. And here I would expect the Czech Government to at least try to clarify this point. Or, and I would have expected too much, but I would have done so, this mechanism would have operated without the will of a Member State on those points, as Hungary and Poland eventually did. I therefore ask the Government to give this House a clear position on its position on the fundamental and strategic issues that I have mentioned here, whose solutions are being debated at European level these days, and this is, I remind you, firstly, the reform of the asylum system in Europe, which should be based on the principle of permanent relocation quotas, and secondly, on proposals for the reform of the Schengen system, including the new powers of the Border and Coast Guard Agency. I hope that the government will not play hide-and-seek on these issues, that we will receive a clear opinion from the Prime Minister, who has come in the meantime. And that this is a clear position on what position the Czech Government will take in further negotiations, how it will defend the interests of the Czech Republic, what we will want to promote, what we will be aiming at, that we really care about the fact that the government really wants to protect sovereignty and security of the Czech Republic, that not only the Chamber of Deputies will know, but also the Czech public who owes the government answers to these questions through the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u22	Thank you. Before Minister Zaorálek comes forward, Mr Okamura is signed up with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to my previous speaker, who has spoken here about the Schengen area and the security of the border. Yes, Schengen has failed and de facto does not exist. Solving border security wouldn't be difficult if it were the politicians' will. It would be enough to respect the treaties consistently and suspend Greece's membership of the Schengen area until it starts to fulfil the conditions of membership, namely to protect the external borders of the area and to avoid free passage through its territory to anyone who wishes to. After entering Schengen, Slovakia had to secure the border with Ukraine. In unmistakable mountain areas there is a technique worth a billion Slovak crowns, thermocams, cameras, georadar, which also reveals underground tunnels, and optical cables that identify movement to the millimeter exactly. We can say that borders can be protected completely imperviously if they want to and is will. But we all know that this will has never been there, but, on the contrary, our government opposition and European politicians have long praised immigration as beneficial to Europe and the European Union. For years, the European Union has tolerated the illegal migration of people who are attracted to a generous European social system. Once again, the cause of the crisis is a dysfunctional and bureaucratic European Union. And as long as we are under the dictation of the European Union, we will only delay the solution. Therefore, once again, I would like to call on the Government to allow citizens, after more than ten years of membership of the European Union, a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, because the whole immigration crisis that we are dealing with here really does not have a solution until we clearly face the European Union. And I just wanted to say that we are expecting another big wave of immigrants to Europe in the spring. So the time really isn't here anymore. So, government, please do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u24	Another point of fact is made by Mr Soukup. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Because I see Mr. Zaorálek getting ready to perform, so I'd like to ask him a question right away. I am yesterday, I would say with some satisfaction and with great hope, welcomed the report that NATO is somehow involved in the situation. However, this morning, the agencies have tapped out, and I have also heard from our public sources, information that the NATO High Representative has ruled out returning refugees or diverting ships. What are those ships gonna do there anyway? Do you have any information?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u26	Thank you and now, with priority right, Mr Zaorálek, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u27	Thank you. I wish you a good noon, not yet, good morning. I'm glad to be here today, because I should be on my way to Munich by now, but I believe I can still say a few words here on a subject that I should probably, actually, be able to express myself on. For the last time, I have listened to the government's call on it to be clear in its positions, so that there are no visible holes and to speak straight, directly, specifically. However, I may have had the impression from the last speech of the opposition representative that I would have made the exact same request to the opposition representatives. I would ask the opposition, therefore, to be absolutely clear, so that we know exactly what attitude we are talking about and what you are actually representing. Because if I were to name these basic principles here, I would probably repeat myself, that has been said many times here, governments and you would probably agree with them, such as the principle of protecting the external Schengen border, so you would all agree, and you would say that if this is one of those points that we, as a government, are promoting, it is something that you would sign. Apparently. But now I have also heard that, in fact, when we enforce this principle, even with all the clear consequences, e.g. as it is in the European Commission's proposal that, if a country fails, it must be possible to intervene and seal the hole, because if you have any state border or external border of any territory you want to protect, the border is as strong as the weakest link. If it just pops up somewhere, you're gonna have migrants rushing through that hole, refugees - it's said what we're supposed to call it, or we're not supposed to call it. So I repeat, either you're holding the line whole, or your whole system is going to start falling apart. You know that the last proposal from the European Commission is that it says that if some country does not have enough power, it does not have the resources, people, there should be a possibility for the European Commission to intervene and seal the hole. Well, this is exactly the position of the Czech Republic. Yesterday I spoke to Nikos Kotzian in Athens about this with my colleague Witold Waszczykowský, Polish Foreign Minister. I'm defending this position. She seems clear and clear to me. And you know why? Because the Czech Republic is a country that has actually given up sovereignty in this area. We are, in fact, a country that has no external Schengen border. We have advanced the protection of the external border to other countries, and with the exception of the Ruzyn Airport, no one crosses the Schengen border. And to me, it seems perfectly legitimate and in the interests of the citizens of this country, when I tell our partners and a whole series of ministers that the Czech Republic is in favour of making a hole somewhere so that it is immediately stuck, so that we are clear to everyone. And here, a long speech by my predecessor, a representative of the opposition, was a criticism of the government for actually questioning sovereignty in this matter, allegedly, because if someone intervened in another state, do you understand?, thus questioning the sovereign right of that state to protect its borders. Do you understand the logic? And he says even, President Fiala says that we should support our Hungarian and Polish friends in this, who, as you all know, have called in because they say that it is the protection of sovereign borders that they do not want anyone else to enter. And I am quite seriously, seriously, I am having fun with these partners and I am telling them that it is vital for the Czech Republic that this hole does not crack anywhere and that, when it happens, it is sealed. And we're even going into such detail that I tell the Polish Minister that he would mind if some of the members of some countries were acting as such units: Well, let's agree, it will be Čech and Slovák and we'll agree this way. But it didn't occur to me that I should withdraw from this demand, because when it rushes through that hole, it will be too late to defend ourselves by not calling into question the sovereignty of the country that was unable to defend the country. You see, that's the consistency of the opposition. This is the rock solidity of what the opposition is doing here. They seem to mean it hard, seriously, they want to see it clearly, but when you think about what they're saying, it's actually weakening the protection of the interests of the citizens of this country. And that's how it is with everything. In fact, there are some really big debates here, where it is said that the government is not consistent enough, but I believe that this is not the case at all. It says here that the Schengen regime no longer works or that it is the protection of something that is almost no longer there. And you're asking me - you're asking us how we're going to behave in this situation. We may be boring and dull, but the principles of our policy are absolutely simple. Far more understandable to me than what you're saying. I will tell you four basic positions which today defend Czech politics. Premiere, government, State Department. Firstly, the aim is to protect Schengen cooperation and the free movement of persons, and no consideration is given to us retreating from this, to accept some minischengens, some compromises. On the contrary, we want to restore as soon as possible a state in which it will not be necessary to substitute some internal boundaries that some are trying to do, so this is the principle that we are following. Second thing. The establishment of functional policies in the area of migration, and we even say everywhere, must be faster than the European Commission imagines. I myself remember my performances here, which I had, that is unacceptable to me the pace that has been chosen today, that we can't wait that long. So this is the policy of the Czech Republic - the establishment of new functional policies, because the existing policies are proving insufficient at a time of crisis. This is another thing followed by Czech foreign policy. Third thing. Reduction of migration pressure on the European Union. We are looking for a way to reduce the flow, because it is not possible to expect Germany to receive a million migrants again this year and to repeat itself in the entirety of the 2015 situation. That was the purpose of the journey that I now had through Turkey, Greece, Macedonia and others, actually this is what I was interested in. What needs to be done to reduce the flow of migrants. What do these countries do for it, how can we help them, how can we simply reduce the flow? And I don't have time or space here to talk about details, but I'm offering you a performance on the relevant House Committees, and I'm willing to report in detail what the situation at the Turkish-Greece border looks like, not just because I've been there. Our ambassadors, our embassies have the task of continuing to do so and to keep us permanently informed. It's the latest information that's going on in there. I've even heard that our ambassador walks across the seaside in disguise because he understands that we're being extremely serious. To really know the maximum of what's going on out there. And these are the tasks that our representative offices have received from us so that we in Europe can perform and speak on the basis of facts that we do not have mediated, which we have directly from our people from those countries. And it wasn't just my trip, it was, let's just say... We also need to go to that place, but it's not that I'm taking all the information in a matter of hours, but we're actually working there all the time, we're working with NGOs, we're working with others, and we're creating an accurate picture of how these countries are doing what they have today. To what extent, the way they can be helped, the meaning of our money, the means we need most today. I could talk about that for a long time, I think it's gonna make this whole thing a lot more complicated. [[10.20 hours]] But to get back to it - reducing migration pressure is another principle. The Home Secretary is not here, but as far as I know, the Home Secretary sends you a report every month on the migration situation. So there's no point in saying a lot of things here because I live thinking you all have it. It's not like there's only one place that leaks information. Milan Chovanec, I know I checked with him, he regularly informs you of all the new facts and facts in this area. So the House should be quite informed about this in my opinion. There's no point in saying that again. Then I would tell you one thing that seems very important to me today when I have to speak for foreign policy. The principle of Czech foreign policy today is the descalation of tension and the creation of trust among all parties involved. I'm really defending myself, and I'm not gonna let myself attack anyone. I'm not talking about the Czech Republic right now, I'm talking about our partners. I just wish everyone worked as hard as possible. We're not supposed to yell out that we're excluding someone. On the contrary, we must involve everyone. It still doesn't work here, nothing works or anything. Yes, there's no need to repeat that. The European Commission has harshly criticised some states, and I can even assure you that this criticism has been extremely massive, very strong, and indeed on the verge of taking very hard steps. And if things started to move today, not only the hotspot on Lesbos, but also on Kosa I think it works today, that is, there has actually been quite a lot done. I don't even want to say it's done, because something else is, when it's installed, there's personnel, there's all the facilities, it's technically equipped. I still can't tell you 100% what the effect is. Because we're not fully capable yet, and it's waiting for us to see how it's actually treated with all these... Even if they are screened, even if there is an idea of who's from, whether he's an economic migrant or a political asylum seeker. Even if some are being detained, as we have been told, or as we have been able to see, it is not quite clear how it is on the whole movement with them when they move to the mainland, what is the capacity of those detentions, how it actually works, how return policy is being implemented. There I confess that there are still a number of details that we will have to verify further, which I fear are far from fulfilled today. However, it is true that under the enormous pressure that he was, he actually built up, and I had the opportunity to see it with my own eyes, devices that are extensive today, equipped, staffed, technically secured, that is, something has definitely been done here. I called it the beginning yesterday, promising -- careful. I can't take the guarantees for this, it's premature. You know, Greece probably won't keep what it promised until February 18th. However, it decided to deploy an army to build hotspots. It is the decision of the Greek Government to deploy an army, and the army has an extended deadline to launch hotspots by the end of March, say, which I don't think you're happy about, but these are the facts. But it is that something is happening, and Greece is putting its forces on it to actually live up to what it promised, because it knows that the consequences would really be bad. So it's not like it's still there. Everyone knows it's bad. Everyone knows how serious this is. So is Turkey. There's a lot of repetition here, too, of those floscules around Turkey. Of course, Turkey is an extremely important element of this whole thing. We also had the opportunity to speak with the Coast Guard officials, even as you may have registered, it happened to us that on the journey of a ship between Greece and Turkey, our own ship on which we rode held the refugee boat 150 meters outside the border waters, i.e. before leaving the high waters of Turkey. That's a line that Turkish ships couldn't hit anymore. So at the last minute, a refugee boat was captured in a very broad daylight under quite incredible circumstances, that we drove past that shore ten minutes before, and they probably thought we had gone, so they just took off. They're able to cross the Strait by boat in 30 minutes. This is happening incredibly fast. That's why the Turek actually said they didn't have enough vessels and personnel to capture ships that were able to cross over so quickly. We saw them bring them back, those ships. I don't want to draw any conclusions. I've learned that a trip in a boat like this is worth three thousand dollars in good weather for one, and a thousand dollars in bad weather. Those they return, you imagine it's tragic for them when they don't have money, and when they do, they'll soon try to cross again. If the Turek tell you they've arrested 91,000 of these since January, I don't know, it's relative because it's a question of how many experiments they've been doing. The lack of people and ships is obvious. That is why I think that there is a limited sense in NATO's decision to monitor the space. I would like to point out here that, during what I have heard here, I have heard the sentence that those NATO ships will return refugees to Turkey. I would like to point out that it does not give rise to a false impression - that is not so. I think it is almost certain that NATO's mission will not look like they will return refugees to Turkey. They'll only do this if they find a sinking, shipwrecked ship. Under maritime law, they must intervene at such a time, but they will certainly not do what happened when we were there, that they will enter into negotiations with them, because of course they do not want to come back. There are children there, they cry, women who scream: For God's sake, leave us the 150 meters! We want the other way! We're gonna lose all our money. And they convince them, like they said, about an hour and an hour and a half, and then they drag them back. Turkey. They're Turek, Turkey. But NATO won't do that. That's for sure. That's impossible at this point. NATO mission is monitoring. They will basically monitor, and the reason is that it was said that behind this move, behind this transfer of people is organized crime, and NATO has made an argument that since this is an organized crime, it is possible to use NATO funds to monitor the movement of vessels and what is happening in space. That, as far as I know, is the nature of the mission that has been approved. So I am not denying that this will have a certain meaning, on the other hand, it is not about strengthening itself directly, and I am practically sure that it will return refugees, as some may mistakenly imagine. This is probably impossible at this point for a number of reasons, because movement at sea and interference is not at all an easy thing in high waters and so on. So I'm just pointing out that the sentence that was said here would be too ambitious. But I said that what I think today is about restoring trust and descaling tension. If I am to speak for foreign policy, I must stress what seems essential to me. I mean, my friends, migration is always just an expression of something fundamental that's happening, what's causing the migration, and that's what's most disturbing today. When you said in your speeches that the situation has not improved since your last debate, since your last session, it is due not only to the fact of migration itself, but to the overall situation, the context of the foreign policy situation around us. And that, my friends, has unfortunately not improved! Even the opposite. In fact, today we are witnessing a moment when the peace initiatives are coming up empty. You all know how the Geneva conference went. And I can tell you that everywhere you go, everyone is telling you: Syria is the root of this problem. In Greece, they basically calculated that there are over 60 percent of Syřan among the refugees, the second largest group being Afghanistan. But that's where we saw it on the lists. When we were there yesterday, the wind was at sea, so almost one fugitive didn't arrive, there were just some leftovers. Because the wind is what keeps those refugees from moving. Not even cold, but wind, rolling sea. But two days before we arrived, there were two thousand refugees within two days, and two thousand of them showed us that there were more than 60 percent of Syřan. [[10.30 hours]] I spoke to a Syřan who said to me, and the worst thing is that it's all going to work together with us, and that Iran, Russia, Saddámův's regime is entering, and I don't care if I'm being hit by Asadův's regime bombs or if they're Russian bombs. [[Assad's?]] I don't care anymore. I can't live there anymore. And that's basically the misfortune of what's going on in the last few days. You who are watching this, you probably know that we were all worried about Aleppo, this great two million-dollar city, and the attack that unfortunately occurred and which may be strategically, so that I might be right to all the unblack and white circumstances of this situation, leading to some extreme Islamist groups being suppressed, it is true that it may be bad for them, but unfortunately what seems even more tragic to me is that it is the threat and expulsion of hundreds of thousands of people towards the Turkish border, and there are tens of thousands of them piled up and Turkey is building some camps to take them back. So, on the one hand, today we are calling on Turkey, officially the European Commission, to accept these refugees fleeing Aleppo, while calling on Turkey to accept refugees from Greece to Turkey and to stop the flow of migrants to Europe. Do you understand? We are making a statement in one day calling on Turkey to open the door to refugees from Aleppo, and in one day we are calling on Turkey to help us stop migrants leaving Turkey and heading for Europe. This is what it looks like from the position of the Turek that they read these two European announcements and tell you: from what you say, of course, your idea is that we're gonna get it all and that it's all gonna stay with us. That's what you're confronted with, and it has logic. There's hundreds of thousands of them rolling in, and they're calling you, so it looks like there's gonna be three and a half million in a minute, and you're telling us that we're here to improve border control and, if possible, not let anyone in. And that's enough for us! Turkey has quite a very good police force, it has a strong army, and I have no doubt for itself that it is able to do more in the fight against organised crime and those Smuggler gangs. That's what I think the Turek are now showing that they've arrested 3,600 people, so I think they're able to do both incomparably more, and on the one hand... Unfortunately, my friends, the crime is incredibly intertwined with these structures, because I think it's been said many times, but the industry is unimaginablely huge, the migration industry. He's gigantic! You know, on the islands of Greece, you can already see de facto advertising for refugees, which are almost at the level of advertising for normal tourists from Europe. There is everything - there are brochures, there are maps, there are basically fixed prices already. It's not just a fight against organized crime, it's normal business capitalism. He's the one who took over because there's a lot of money in it for businessmen. That's where you have to secure the food. Those families, the Syřan, by the way, as I discussed yesterday, are quite well situated. They told me they have cell phones better than you. They're well situated. These are people who eat in restaurants. It's not just the tickets. So there's a huge business involved. Our company works by taking over everything business. When you have thousands of people running away, it's actually also... This means that the problem is also the one - and that is also what we need to clarify, and that is the point of the pressure and cooperation that we have to face in some way that this industry does not become something that overwhelms us. This is what we need to build a common European policy. It's the only way we're gonna stop it. The Czech Republic itself is short for this. We simply have to participate in the fact that we do not agree with this type of business becoming the one that will eventually become the new type of industry in which huge money is being made. This is just a fact. And when I was talking about the situation in Turkey, I believe that these are difficult negotiations, that is clear. It is extremely important for the Turek to agree on visa liberalisation, and it is important for them to be able to say that - open accession talks with Turkey. And I don't think we should think of the Turek as someone who can't keep our word if we can make a deal like that. Here I would like to argue a little bit about what is repeated too often, that Turkey is or something like that. It seems to me that Turecko is a more complex phenomenon. I would have forgiven myself for all the simple words here. However, I believe, and it is my belief that if we make an agreement with Turkey, Turkey will implement it. It may not even be as quick as we want it to be, but I think they are actually taking concrete steps in the area of legislation to free the labour market so that those refugees can work there. These are tough negotiations, tough ones, there's no need to have illusions about a partner who can be tough, but I think it's absolutely the right strategy to try to make a deal. We have to do this. And if it doesn't work out, so be it, but it's an obligation to try with all your strength. And my dealings with the Turkish side have not been my impression in the long run that - I think Turkey is not someone who does not hold the agreed principles if we too are able to show that we are able to keep our commitments. Remember, too, the means we're talking about are approved, so it's a little imaginary today. It is not that some billions of Turecko have been provided. That's just a promise at the moment, it's not being realized yet. So the Turek tell you, we need help, and what did we get? So I take it seriously. On the one hand, the key is, of course, in Syria, although not only in Syria, because Afghanistan and Pakistan and other countries are also big problems, and there is also a need to create readmission agreements with a whole range of other countries, and a return policy with the countries of North Africa from Morocco, Algeria and others, it is also an important part of how not only to have hotspots but friends, have somewhere to return those who are those who are not entitled to political asylum. This means hotspot is where it is divided, where it is said: these are people even dangerous, who come up with various reasons from a very positive environment, those we have to return, close, etc., here are those who are economic migrants that we are unable to absorb because Europe has exhausted capacity, and here are, say, political asylumants. This is the purpose of the hotspot. But the problem is when the hotspot does it, if we really are able to return those people, if we're able to make a deal with those countries, and that's an extremely difficult thing to do. And the most important readmission agreement today is between Greece and Turkey, so that Greece can return refugees to Turkey, because it exists between Greece and Turkey, but the extent of the implementation is small, and here we should politically help Greece to actually respect this readmis. This is one of the key elements of what we are trying to do today, and here the European Commission should function as a whole, which plays a crucial role in this. So that's another one. Do you understand? I said here that the point we're following is to build trust and deescalate the situation. The situation is serious. I could talk about that here for a long time. The situation is serious because - as I said, Geneva has failed or has been postponed, Russian attacks also know that they have made the situation even more heated, Saudi Arabia is also talking about wanting to engage in the country militarily, so there is an escalation of the situation from all sides. And the Syřan that he said was very accurate: so they all now made it a terrain of fighting among themselves and cannot live there. He said something exactly: I don't care where the bombs come from anymore, for me the essential result is that they can't exist. So the first interest is, and at the Munich conference that I am leaving for - actually yesterday, today, actually, the key issue, the statement calling for renewed talks between the parties to the conflict in Syria and for it to be presented, was a ceasefire and a political solution. And I think you also know that Russia is calling for a truce plan on Thursday next week. So I guess that's the key issue today. The obvious thing is, we're downtown here, in one of the outbreaks of the problem. Physically, honourable Members, Members, we are physically able to limit the scope of the so-called. The Islamic state in those territories, but it doesn't seem to be so useful to us, because they're pouring into Libya, and there are thousands of fighters in Libya. But this was known. It was known that even if we were relatively successful in Syria and Iraq, those fighters would be poured into an area in which there is a situation without control, such as Libya, and the situation in Libya is very complicated around Syrta, because there is actually a branch or license, the franchise called. Islamic State. So, of course, it's a thing that's not possible from the world, certainly not in a short time. And we've got a tough job to do here. [[10.40 hours]] But I understand that there are words here in the House saying that this is a serious matter, even the tension and the intensity I understand, but still, when I honestly think about what the government is doing, I think that the points I'm saying here are completely rational tools for what a country like the Czech Republic can do. And the only thing you could blame me for if you said that I wasn't interested in, like, the issue of voltage descalation, building trust between countries. I think it would be wrong for us to play the role of those who piss off one side of the other when they're just the ones who would be screaming that they've already failed you. On the contrary. The role is to get them all to participate. I wish the Řek could finish the hotspots so we could help them handle what they're doing better. To make the system work. There's a whole series of divisions here today. Look, if you're on the border between Macedonia and Greece, they'll throw you dozens of fake passports. Papers showing you that they're running into a very suspicious individual at the border, and they say to you: How is it that these people went through the hotspots or the registration points, like somewhere in Greece? How come we have dozens of these around here? And Macedonia is not technically equipped enough and is not part of Schengen. And yet we're helping them because they're part of it. This was said by the European - non-European countries. We're kind of all in this together. These countries are at different stages of accession to the EU and are part of the Western Balkans, which is always historically a very uncertain place that has been the source of the conflict. And we, as Čech, know something about it, which is why we have the Western Balkans as a priority. We know that eruptions in the Western Balkans could pose a threat to Europe, and that is why we are trying to help those countries. It is precisely because we know the past and know what it meant for Europe that we are trying to help these countries as much as possible. Don't leave them alone. That's why we're trying to supply them with people. You know that we have police officers in Macedonia, you know that we supply technology there and we try to make them partners in controlling the flow of migrants. In the effort to reduce and reduce. That's why we work with them. And I think we have a decent trust in these countries. This is what the Czech Republic does. In the lane, do you understand?, in the lane, in the belt through which migration is progressing, today we are trying to create a system that will be able to prevent the repetition of 2015. And that's what we should do by all means. So that is what the Czech Republic is doing and what seems to me that, on the one hand, it is our lesson in history and, on the other hand, that we are trying to break distrust and create a system that will work. Where we will try to prevent those who do not belong in Europe from getting into it at all. Where we will try to bring economic migrants back to the countries from which they are leaving, because at the moment, Europe does not have an absorption capacity for them. Where we can tell those who are really running away from the war. Families that need saving because they're in danger of even defending their lives. This is a policy for which you should judge us. To what extent we're doing this, and we're involved in this. And it seems to me - take the Sýrie, too. The Czech Republic, it has been repeated about a hundred times, is a country that is exceptional in its representation in Syria. That we're trying to map the situation there, too. Here, too, we try to speak with knowledge in international forums based on the information we have from the original source. So even here, I think we're doing our best, and we're doing more than anyone could possibly imagine. It is the role of a country with ten million inhabitants in the centre of Europe and is seemingly quite a conflict somewhere in Syria. But I feel from your performances that there's a consensus that we're involved. That we're concerned about what's going on in Iraq, Syria. That we are concerned about what is happening in Turkey and that it is committed to trying to create barriers along the whole line, to create a way to prevent those who do not belong to Europe, because they are often associated with questionable crime, and even sometimes, yes, sometimes associated with terrorism. To create a system that will not allow them to enter Europe. And create a system in which the wave will be manageable. It is a challenge, the main challenge of 2016 and I think it is also a key challenge for Czech foreign policy. It is a challenge for the Czech Government. I think we're spending quite a bit of time on this. And I'm gonna go back to Munich today to a debate that actually has a whole series of topics on this issue again. I think it's legitimate that the House wants to pay attention to this, but I think it would be good to be precise and fairer in this argument with the government, because... I have said here the basic principles we follow, and I claim that they are all in line with the life interests of the Czech Republic. And that it's a course that's thought through, and that the government is acting like a responsible government in this thing. I wish that the debates that have been conducted here have led the public to be reassured and to be sure that the government is able to guarantee it today that it will do its utmost to ensure the security of this country and maximum to ensure that not only the Czech Republic, but also Europe, which is actually the guarantee of our prosperity, but also security to the future, works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u28	Good morning. I thank the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. And before we go any further, I'll make an apology. The next meeting apologizes to President Hamáček because he is leaving for a foreign trip. He also apologizes to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. We can proceed, first with factual remarks. The first factual point is that of Mr Petr Fiala. Mr Radim Fiala will prepare for factual remarks. I have a total of six here. Whoever is logged in electronically takes precedence over the application from the place. I must respect the Rules of Procedure. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u29	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for responding to some of the things I said in my speech. Of course, I am now passing away the invectives that concern the lack of clarity of the opposition's position. Thus, the ODS as the first party has presented a clear programme of what to do with migration, which we supplement according to the current situation, so the complaint is ridiculous. But still, his performance, despite his reaction to some things, remains a series of question marks even after his performance. I was talking about the government not speaking one word. Well, just to mention one thing at a time. Minister Zaorálek here said we shouldn't imagine NATO turning back refugees. That's kind of what it sounded like. I'm not quoting exactly, I've made a note of it. But yesterday I read the statement of Secretary of Defense Stropnický, who says - quote: "The migrants will return to Turkey, which agrees." Well, that may be understandable, of course, but at this point, the contradiction remains. Minister Zaorálek said we wouldn't build any minischengen. But the proposal at the border of Macedonia-Bulgaria is the building of Minskengen. It simply needs to be made clear: Greece will be out of Schengen. Okay, but let's face it. And then the sovereignty thing. Thank you for your position. It's finally said. The government doesn't mind while the government of Poland and Hungary does. It just bothers me. There, when you read the exact provision about the border and coast guard, it says that they can also interfere with third countries. At least I would ask what it means, the interpretation that is not on the external border of Schengen. Does it mean outside the EU or to third countries within the EU? This could also affect the Czech Republic. And that's something I really don't want. I don't want any European cop coming here to check into an apartment against my will, what I'm drowning in a stove. And it could come to such absurdity. This is what the Czech Republic must face at first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u30	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Radim Fiala has also made a point of fact. Mrs Lorencová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to respond here to the Foreign Minister Zaorálek, who clearly answered the question that NATO's mission is only a monitoring mission and that the wind at sea is the greatest defender of the European Union's immigration. So I think that's the obvious answer. However, I would like to ask what the concept of the Czech Foreign Minister is to protect Czech countries and Czech citizens. Finally, Minister, we need to start telling the truth. A year ago, you said there was no immigration crisis, you welcomed immigrants into factories, you said it would be a multicultural enrichment for us. I want to make it clear that the immigration crisis is not ending, it will continue and poses a major risk to the Czech Republic. Do not spread the illusions of a common solution within the European Union. The European Union has no solution and there is no solution. All he wants to do is record immigrants, move around Europe, and that is unacceptable for us. Immigration invasion needs to be stopped. And if the European Union does not do so at Schengen borders, the Czech Republic must do so at its borders. If the government doesn't have the courage to make that decision, let it resign. The arrival of thousands of illegal Islamic immigrants will create an unsolvable security situation. These people need to be stopped at the border and sent back. I propose the following resolution of the Chamber of Deputies: We ask the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare concrete measures to close the borders of the Czech Republic before illegal immigrants penetrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u32	I thank Mr Radim Fial. The Minister won't answer him, because - now I have his apology - he's leaving, as he said, at a security conference in Munich. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová, on a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u33	Mr President, colleagues, it is a pity that the Foreign Minister is not here, Mr Zaorálek. I would like him to identify, or to specify who he meant by the 60 percent Syřan, if he means those who have the date of birth 1. One, I mean the ones with the Turkish passports. And another thing that I consider - unfortunately, I will not say much in that technical remark - but which I consider rather fundamental. In 2015, 6 800 migrants, not refugees, were proven to have been registered as... They just didn't arrive where they were originally headed. They were headed for Sweden, Germany and so on, but they never got there. So where are they? Do we even know, do we have an overview at least in part, of where these people are moving? I don't think there's any. And on the statements that are being made here, not only from Mr. Zaorálek's mouth, I would like to point out - weighing, gray is the theory, green is the tree of life. 'Cause we're gonna figure it all out. I'm afraid it won't be in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u34	Thank you, Mrs Jana Lorencová. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Foldyna, will now be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u35	Thank you, Mr President. It's too škoda the Minister left. Because - friends, you get it. He's been here for 50 minutes, or, as far as God knows, he's been talking, and maybe it would be good if the government, if they're so happy to be pouting us here for the opposition talking for quite a long time, was able to limit its minister to five minutes. Because he'd be able to tell us the essence in five minutes, the rest was slapping or beating up empty straw. He just basically didn't say anything, nothing at all, what the Czech government wants to do, or defend what it's doing here today. This means defending impotent policy, Czech foreign policy, impotent policy of the European Union. We simply cannot deal with the refugee crisis, and the Foreign Minister has made it clear that he is not a man in his place. Minister, just be ashamed of what you're doing here. Fifty minutes you've been talking about nothing, and we've been able to sort this place out in some way, while we've just been listening to where you've been, what you've seen, but you haven't said anything to deal with anything. You just don't have a solution, and you have nothing to present to us, defending the undefensible. Thank you. . [[Applause for Members of the Dawn]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u36	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, Mr Foldyna, also on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u37	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that my colleague, Minister Zaorálek, has left. I wanted to talk to him mostly. Because I think we do not have great complaints about what the Czech Government is doing or what the Czech Government would not do within the Czech Republic. It's also evidence that we have eight immigrants, now we've brought immigrants to Jihlava. They already say they don't like it because they're getting written by colleagues from Germany that they have more money and that they actually had more money in Iraq and that they wanted to come back. Well, please pack their bags and send them back! Anyway, that's just a comment. I wanted to tell the Minister of Foreign Affairs that in 406 the Roman Empire withdrew its troops from the Rhine, Germán and barbarians rolled over the Rhine and it took only 70 years when German Germán Odoaker the Roman emperor. Minister, I wanted to give you and my colleagues a mandate to work in this foreign policy to keep us from being brought here by NATO, in which we are members, so that the European Union will protect us from returning. Please don't tell us here that they're gonna be guarded and imported here when they're diving, they're gonna be hauling them back to where they came from, because I don't want to end up like the Roman Empire in those 476, when the barbarians have already taken over Rome. That's what I'm worried about. I'm not worried about the Czech Republic right now, and I'm not accusing the government of acting in the context of the current situation in the Czech Republic, but let's be more consistent in foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u38	I thank Mr Foldyn for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'm also very sorry that Minister Zaorálek left this meeting, this report. Because the invector and the attack that the opposition is the one that prevents all of this from going through, I find it completely inappropriate, inappropriate, and my colleague Ondráček said it here - it's impotent politics, nothing more. Turkey, and it didn't say anything, is blackmailing us, working with the Islamic State, bombing and attacking Kurd, who are trying to solve the situation in a region he has been talking about. Eruption in the Balkans - yes, it can happen. Then why don't we protect our borders, why don't we protect our own borders? And to say that the government is doing everything in its power to deal with the situation - it's not true. It's not true, because Dawn was, and it's the only party that really proposed laws and proposed laws here. Whether it is the law for asylum procedures to be conducted outside Europe, outside the Schengen area, and only those who are entitled to asylum have been brought here. A colleague of mine, Mr. Foldyna, also mentioned it here. People come here who don't appreciate our help, who despise our help. It's not right. If Europe comes to something, it is up to us to keep filming on talking about how we need to help. We don't have to help, these people don't appreciate it. Just look in Jihlava, just look at the packages they throw away, packages with help. That is why, in this regard, I think that the 50-minute speech by Minister Zaorálek was again about nothing. And the latest intel. The public isn't calm. Mr. Secretary, go look outside. The public isn't calm. And unfortunately, you're not going to answer that question because you're not here. Are you defending Turkey or defending the Czech Republic? Thank you, and I just... [[The President points to the time]] I know. If I may suggest that this meeting be adjourned, because there's no one here to give us a relevant answer, and I think it's going to be any price now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u40	If you're proposing an interruption, I'm asking you if it's a procedural proposal. And in case you want to interrupt the meeting, you must also suggest when you want to interrupt it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u41	Yes. I propose a procedural proposal, a suspension of this meeting, because neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sobotka nor Minister Chovanec are here. I therefore propose that we suspend the fact that the presidents of the MPs would agree when we will continue this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u42	Okay. Anyway, in case you want to interrupt, I have to put it to a vote. This means, if I understand this well, that you propose that this meeting be adjourned for a meeting of Members' Club Chairs and for this meeting to come up with a time and a time when this meeting will continue. Okay. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby and have them come to the vote. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. Before my colleagues and colleagues arrive, I'll read one more apology. Please change the apology of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Today's meeting will take place at 11 o'clock. For the sake of order, I will repeat the procedural proposal that has been made here. This is an interruption of this meeting for a meeting of club chairmen, so that the time and time of the meeting should come from this meeting when the meeting should be continued. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 221, registered with 111 Members, for proposal 35, against 69. This proposal was not accepted, it was rejected. In that case, we will continue to discuss this point. I note Mr Tomio Okamura's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Zaorálek, Minister of Foreign Affairs has done here has really made it clear to me that the European Union does not have a solution for the Czech Republic. We have basically learned nothing for citizens of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic. The only thing I memorized from his performance as news, and it made me smile that he said that when the wind is at sea between Turkey and Greece, there are fewer migrants. This means, in essence, the greatest protector of the European Union is the wind, which is therefore very poor. The solution is what our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, SPD, says, preparing for the closure of the Czech Republic's borders. I miss the government saying it's ready, I miss the concept. Spring is coming, and all we learned from the Minister of the Interior was that it would be expensive. And yet we have about two months before the next wave comes, and if Austria or Germany take any measures, it can turn to us. Cooperation with Turkey is an illusion. I can't even agree with what the government officials are saying here. Turkey is simply not a partner that can be trusted in the long term and strategically. And I hope you will not repeat here what the Prime Minister said about two months ago, that you will try to strengthen the protection of the Czech-Austrian border by 200 soldiers. The Prime Minister here forgot to tell us that it's 200:3 because they can hardly work 24 hours a day, so they work at least three shifts, which means 60 soldiers on the whole Czech-Austrian border, which is just bitterly smiling. This means that you simply do not have a solution, nor does the European Union. It would therefore be good for us to prepare this matter in the area of closing the borders of the Czech Republic so that we can effectively protect them. [[Time warning.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u44	Thank you. Now Mr Grospič with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, I am very serious about the debate that is going on here today, and not only today, but also in the previous days on this subject. I would like to ask all previous speakers through you, but especially the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, what active measures the Czech Republic will therefore take, not only in terms of the potential closure and protection of the borders of the Czech Republic, but, of course, to its involvement in the North Atlantic Alliance, and to press on its would-be coalition allies, so that they too will not actively support the conflicts of war in Syria, for example, which are the trigger mechanism for these waves of controlled migration, which then reach Europe, Germany, and potentially threaten the Czech Republic. So in this I would see the essence of how the Czech government wants to contribute actively to preventing it from being prevented through its engagement to war conflicts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, therefore, with Mrs Langšádlová's opinion. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we have found ourselves in is really serious, and if it fails to address Europe, it can have really fatal consequences for our future. I think we all see that this is a completely different category of problem than whether we retire at 65 or 66 years of age, or even how fast we're going to ride our motorways. These are also questions that we are dealing with. I am convinced that we are in a crisis and that, in this situation, democratic parties are to look for the most responsible common solution for our future. That is why, as a party to the TOP 09, as a democratic party, even opposition, we report and support the government in its actions. It is so that if democratic political parties do not come up with a solution in the event of a crisis and cannot enforce it, then parties can come up undemocratic and that is a huge risk to our future. We have been involved in the resolution that colleagues have been talking about, and we are ready to support it. But this does not mean that we are not critical. Of course, and I could talk here for a long time about how individual states are failing, what role Greece, Turkey, Italy and others played, and what role V4 plays, I could talk about mistakes, non-compliance and all that has been happening for at least two years. Everyone who cares about the future of Europe must be critical and everyone who cares about the future of the Czech Republic must be critical. But we still have a duty to look for a common European solution. There is often talk of national interests, Czech interests. It is even a question of whether we defend the Czech interests at all. I do. I am convinced that the Czech life interest is to remain a solid part of a stable European Union. That's my conviction. And if I defend this position, it is precisely because I believe it is Czech interest. For I am convinced that if we go another way, and that other way threatens us and can come very quickly, for example, if Schengen falls, if the European Union starts to fall apart - so what is the alternative, what is the path you are offering? It's the path of a huge economic decline. You all know that we are a country totally dependent on exports. 78 percent of GDP is exported here. It would mean the demise of about 300-400 thousand jobs. I guess you know that. What's the road you're offering? Yes, but these are economic questions. You all say yes, safety is more important. And I'm in agreement with you on this. Security is more important. And in terms of security, what is the alternative to going outside Europe? What will it mean for us, what will it mean for our future? What's that gonna mean? Will we be stronger, will we be better able to defend our interests? Or does that mean a complete change in our direction, our security situation? [[11.10 hours]] Does that mean we'll get back into Russia's sphere of influence? It does. Dear colleagues, it does. Do you see what is happening in terms of Russian propaganda? Do you also see where much information comes from regarding migration? I want to hold a seminar in the next few weeks. Yes, the situation is serious and there is an increasing security risk with migration, and we must not hide it and we must speak openly about it. That's right. But at the same time, take a good look, and in this I would very strongly ask our government to be active. Take a good look at where the information you're tracking comes from and which one is really true. It's enough what it is. We're really in danger. But I see the threat and the solution in a very different way than many of my previous speakers. We're in danger, but in order to do this, of course, we can't wait, and that's why it's urgent. Europe must seek common solutions quickly. These are not concrete steps in the motion for a resolution, but we are constantly talking about these concrete steps. It's a common coastal and border guard, effective with sufficient capacity. They are hotspots, but not processes, but hotspots, places, detention centers, where those who are really refugees can be distinguished, and they still need to be tested safely, and only those who can enter Europe. Those who are simply economic migrants and, as many of them are, they still have to come back from these places, and that is what Europe has to pay for. Not some kind of solution that they're gonna stay there. A consistent return policy. Yes, Turkey must be given money at the moment, but it means that it must be made clear what Turkey will do for Europe for that money. And not just by setting it up, but by keeping an eye on it and enforcing it. There must be representatives of the European Union in Turkey to monitor what action Turkey is taking. It's not about three billion. CZK to Turkey, and it will therefore say whether he will do anything at all and when he will do it. I mean, every contract has to have dates. Each such agreement must be clearly defined and Europe must demand full implementation. Completely specific performance. But without Turkey and without cooperation with him, it simply won't work. Europe is to negotiate to secure safe zones in Turkey, where some migrants, which cannot be returned to their countries of origin, could return at least temporarily. Even the protection in Europe is meant to be temporary, it is not meant to be the migration of nations. Even if someone gets asylum, it doesn't mean they're supposed to stay in Europe forever. In my opinion, this is where the principle of Geneva conventions began to become very misinterpreted. That's what we need to talk about. This does not mean that there can be permanent migration of nations here, and some will think that this is so fine, or even some will think that we will be dealing with our own demographic crisis or labour market shortcomings. We can't deal with migration. And uncontrolled migration and asylum procedures. That's not the way to go. There's been a lot of talk here about organized crime. Yes, there was an organized crime of extraordinary scale. All those arms trafficking groups that were dealing drugs turned to people today. It's a tragedy, they're taking advantage of the situation. But I'm really asking that we talk about how much money they've already made, where the money is, and what's being financed out of it. That is, after all, an absolutely fundamental and serious question. There has been a huge migration supported by organized crime for two years. Can you figure out how much money it is and what all of it is organized and will be organized today? Yes, and it is Europe's fault. It is Europe's fault that it did not have a fast, consistent return policy, that it opened the borders, that it stopped controlling them. It's all our fault. Even these income from organized crime. This is an extremely serious situation. And some say - well, it was a humanitarian gesture. No, it wasn't a humanitarian gesture we made. We let what's happening get going. Not the most vulnerable and haunted, but the ones who could do it, came to Europe. We did not give timely help to those countries that took refugees in the first wave, and we did not even provide enough food for them. Is it humane that we let these people come from African countries and we're going to return them now? They often sold the last property. And we have to do it. No, it wasn't a humanitarian gesture. Europe is looking at the genocide of Christians and Yazids. And he's helping him? It's not helping. No, those last steps really weren't humanity gestures, they were gestures of irresponsibleness. And everyone who cares about Europe must criticize that. And I care about Europe, and I stand by the fact that we need to look for common European solutions and that we need to look for them as quickly as possible, because if we do not do so, non-solving can have a completely fatal impact on our future. Therefore, I am very much asking you to adopt a resolution so that we can treat each other in a factual way. It is a problem of a completely different category than the other issues that we are discussing here. It's our priority. Let's face it and face it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u48	Thank you, Madame. I'm recording two factual points. The first is Mr Grospič and the second Mr Šarapatka. In that case, Mr Šarapatka. [[Member Jandak is reporting from the hall.]] Are you reporting with a factual remark, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Jandak from the O.R.: I wanted to drop by so there wouldn't be a break.]] Please, Mr. Šarapatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the words of my previous speaker here, and I do not know whether I am dreaming or awake. My colleague here spoke as a book, I will sign everything she said here, but it seems to me that TOP 09 is a bit schizophrenic, because on the other hand, Ex-President Schwarzenberg and Mr Ženíšek are opening their arms and would best welcome all immigrants to Europe and the Czech Republic. Well, that's the first thing. And the second thing, she was talking about the role of Turecko. So I think ad a), Turkey is considered a safe country, which means Turkey has a duty to protect those refugees, not to beg. Yes, I agree that Europe must help them, but not beg. And the other thing, I agree that one of the causes of the immigrant crisis is the crisis in Syria. But I would like to draw attention again to Turecko's role. Turkey is interested in overthrowing Asad - and Asad is a protector of minorities because he himself comes from the Alavite Minority. Syrian Christians, some 15% of whom are there, cannot believe why Europe supports the opposition against Asad. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u50	Thank you. I'm registering further factual remarks. First Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u51	I would like to respond, through Mr President, to my previous speaker. TOP 09 was the first parliamentary party to adopt an opinion on migration. It was last January. We have been discussing this for several months before, while we were aware of the urgency of this subject a little earlier than other parties. But that's not the point. What is important is that when you return to our January position, it contained the following basic principles: TOP 09 is a conservative party that clearly refers to Judaistic-Christian values. We are aware of the values of European civilization. But that also includes solidarity. This is one of Europe's values. That is why, of course, I could talk here for a long time about Europe failing on this issue as well. Europe does not have sufficient humanitarian capacity. Europe simply does not invest in the questions it should be asked. We're dealing with nonsense, we've stopped distinguishing things that matter from things that are irrelevant. And I would like to say that our position as TOP 09 is consistent all along, albeit naturally, Karel Schwarzenberg himself is a migrant, and you know it, and he is the former head of the Helsinki Committee. I respect him extremely much, and it is perfectly natural that the solidarity dimension is very important to him. But in our opinions, solidarity and responsibility have always been balanced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u52	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera, Mrs Chalánková will be prepared with a point of fact. Mr Kučera cancels his point of order. Mrs Chalánková, Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u53	Thank you for the floor. Let me also respond briefly to the words of my previous speakers. I would like to point out here that it was the TOP 09 MEP who pushed through the joint resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on 1 October 2015, which was voted by Members of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL along with us. At that point, we considered it very important that the opposition put its hand to the joint resolution, supported the government, and also expressed its mandate in this way. From this resolution, which I have very much consulted with President Karel Schwarzenberg, I am removing several paragraphs: The Chamber of Deputies, with regard to the concerns of a part of the Czech public, that a large part of migrants are merely posing as refugees, therefore does not meet the conditions for granting asylum, etc. You have everything at your disposal. But for the sake of time, I will reduce my speech to two points that we have voted on and that we have put forward: I. The Chamber of Deputies notes that (a) key decisions which may have a major impact on individual states of the European Union or which individual states might feel existentially threatened are to be taken unanimously, and (b) decisions relating to the management of massive migration flows are such key decisions. II. The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the introduction of permanent mechanisms for the transfer of refugees to and within the European Union on the basis of the mandatory redistributive key. quotas. I'm still logged in for a proper application, so I'd still be talking about the values that my previous speaker was talking about. Yes, we are aware that European civilization is based on Christian-idealistic foundations and values, as well as ancient civilization, and these values need to be defended. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you. I'll sign in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u54	I also thank you for respecting time. Now, then, Mr Tomio Okamura and Mrs Hnyková will prepare herself with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really believe what the MP from the TOP 09 said here, because we all remember Mr Schwarzenberg's remarks, who was here to welcome immigrants to the Czech Republic. I don't understand the naivety, because the biggest victims of radical Muslims in both North Africa and the Middle East are Christian groups, they are žid, and they are homosexuals. That means, really, when I think of several centuries ago how our ancestors resisted Muslim hordes during wars, they never really thought they'd want to integrate Muslim prisoners because they knew it was impossible. So let us learn from our wise ancestors and realize who their main enemy is and how it looks in the Middle East and North Africa, and how they treat Christian groups there, Žid and atheists, possibly. with homosexuals. Otherwise, I'm begging you again to stop using that word as a fugitive. They're normal economic migrants. A safe country is not only Turkey, but also the way, there is also no war, in Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, etc. So the fact that they are only trying to come to the countries where they can suck the most out of the European social system is quite clear, I think. Furthermore, it must be stressed, of course, that all illegal migrants need to be returned, not detained here in the European Union. This is a huge error, and the Czech Republic is simply not developing enough pressure in this regard, or perhaps even none. So that's kind of a summary of what the TOP 09 MP said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u56	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Hnyková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm getting very sad here. When I return to my district of parliament and ask my citizens what we have done here in the Chamber of Deputies for their protection and security... I don't know what I'm gonna tell them. I am very glad that the Prime Minister has already come among us, and I am asking him to answer me from this place, what will be the steps of the government, this government, for the citizens of the Czech Republic! [[With emphasis and a knock on the speaker's desk.]] What will they do for security of the border? What will they do when the borders of Austria and Germany are closed? How do we defend ourselves? How will our citizens be protected? I need a clear answer! I don't care where the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been and what he's seen! I am interested in what will be done for the safety of our citizens!! Please take specific steps to what we will do! I'd like a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u58	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u59	Thank you for the floor. I would like to give a brief education here to Mr Okamura through Mr President. When he finds out what the word migrant means - in translation a migrant individual, a fugitive, a fugitive, a fugitive. Those are synonymous with the word migrant. So I understand here that Mr Okamura is trying to educate TOP 09, but I think he should consider his own remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u60	Thank you, too. Next, Mr Soukup, with a point of fact, after which Mr Novotný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u61	Colleagues and colleagues, I didn't want to make a point of fact. I'm actually going against them. These aren't factual remarks you're telling us. These are your own topics. I would like to call on the President to arrange some sort of order. Next time, I'm probably gonna do my speech, my debate, which I've had for two weeks, and it never got to me, and I'm gonna bite into factual remarks about how Mr Okamura and the others are doing it, and so I'm just gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u62	Well, just for the record, Mr. Ambassador. In particular, Mr Kučera responded in the light of the factual point. It is important not to patronize and separate who makes use of the factual remark and who exploits it. This must be distinguished from each other. Mr Novotný and then Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u63	Good morning. My performance will be short, and it will really be a point of fact. I would only react in retrospect to the performance of Minister Zaorálek. I think that this debate is a long time ago, that today we understand that the government of the Czech Republic firmly supports the joint European solution to the problem. And that's true, we'll find out again in the summer when we get back to it, because we're going to find out that the measures that have been mentioned here aren't working. It's very simple to imagine that they won't work. The continuation of this debate does not seem very effective to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u64	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u65	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I have to completely refuse to be confined to the debate here. I have always responded honestly to the performance of the previous speakers, I have been very careful to always respond, I have taken notes. And the fact that you're uncomfortable being criticized here by a representative of the opposition movement, our SPD, and that you don't like to hear it, I understand, but there's nothing I can do about it. So you must act as a government to act in accordance with the majority conviction of Czech citizens. And most citizens just don't want illegal immigrants here, they don't want to go to the European Union, and your government is simply failing in this and the European Union is failing. That's just a fact. That is why I will continue to speak here in order, of course, to criticise your actions as part of what the law and the Rules of Procedure allow me to do. And I'm gonna say one more thing. If the Foreign Minister Zaorálek hadn't spoken for fifty minutes here, because it's in the Czech Television and the government wanted to make a monologue here for fifty minutes, when he told us the facts that we all already know, and we didn't really know anything new for the citizens of the Czech Republic and for a specific solution, how the government is prepared, now in two months, when it gets warmer, or in a month and another migration wave comes, so we could have been farther away and we didn't have to listen to this 50-minute monologue here. The other thing is, as you know, with our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD is here in the House, because we obviously have uncomfortable views, you don't entertain or invite us into any negotiations. I hear some clubs have agreed on something like that. We're not at these meetings. Next time, have fun with us. Next time, let the government inform us of their actions. Let's talk about this in advance. Stop doing that behind our backs. And then maybe we can also shorten the discussion and we can have more specific conversations. So it's all in your hands if you act according to the will of the citizens and for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u66	On the explanation - the Minister of Foreign Affairs was acting with priority law and the Rules of Procedure do not limit these speeches, which means it was fully in his competence how long he had spoken. Now, with priority rights, Mr Černoch, Minister Babiš will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u67	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure the Minister can talk as long as he wants. Unfortunately, during the information, the long information, it's always about what was, what is, but there are no clear concrete steps to how this situation will be dealt with. And just in terms of how everyone here is fighting in the boobs today, how they wanted to deal with it, let's face it. If anyone really pointed out the immigration crisis, and if he was dealing with this crisis, it was úsvit. In case I see how many people are dealing with this today, I'm sure you'll be very happy to come to the demonstration when Dawn is doing together with the Block against Islam in Hradčanská náměstí, because there were more than 10,000 people there. So if people were calm, as they were said, it would be hard for so many people to get there. Well, that's just for starters. I think it is a very bad custom for the government to inform on the immigration crisis so that there is a report on what has been done, what is actually the history of problems, but there have been no clear steps. More important and important is what will happen in the future and what position the Czech Republic will take in the negotiations in Europe and what positions and how it itself will deal with the whole crisis. Unfortunately, during the entire immigration crisis, we have not learned this information, and we have seen that the European Union is just patting itself on the back while at the same time slapping its inability to act against illegal immigrants. Unfortunately, the Czech Government only nods in this regard. I hope that even the European Union's highest and greatest adherents have already understood that waiting for the European Union's decisive step is worse than waiting for Godot. That is exactly how the citizens of the Czech Republic feel today. But the important difference is that during this waiting, there are really huge waves coming at us, hordes of people who do not appreciate - they do not appreciate! - our help and they come from all over the world. And he keeps saying they're people mainly from Syria. They're people from other states. They're people from Africa. And they're people who come to the economic benefits. All European governments see the failure of the European Union, and all governments respond to that incompetence. They're closing their limits. They accept changes to legislation because none of the legal systems, whether asylum or residence law, counted on a million people per year to flow to Europe. The Czech Republic is probably the only country at present where, for example, a substantial tightening of immigration policy must be proposed by the opposition party. I am very pleased - very glad - that the Chamber of Deputies is really beginning to perceive this problem as well and that you supported our proposal to tighten up the asylum law on Tuesday, even though the Government has given a negative opinion on it. This is also evidence of the government's dissipation from what not only citizens think but also MEPs think. We want to adopt resolutions that will involve the government in concrete action. We want the government to establish permanent protection of national borders and to reject and continue to reject immigration quotas. Above all, however, we ask the government to guarantee that it will prevent the emergence of Muslim communities that will spread radical Islam, Sharia law in the Czech Republic. If Prime Minister Fico promised this step in Slovakia, we do not know and we do not see one reason why something like this could not happen in our country and our Prime Minister Sobotka could not be guaranteed for something like this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have great hope, above all, in the following motions for resolutions. Firstly, we want the Chamber of Deputies to express its distrust of the current immigration and security policy of the European Union. There is perhaps not a single Member among you in the House who is satisfied with the European Union's failure to address the immigration crisis and to respond to it. We therefore believe that there will be courage to send this strong message to the European Union. And our last proposal responds to the words of Turkish President Erdogan about sending immigrants to Europe. We regard this statement as completely unacceptable. We therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies condemn Erdoganův's statement, identify him as blackmail and refuse to submit to such pressure and give way to such pressure. More and more it turns out that what we have warned about is that Turkey is not a reliable partner, so it is true. The Turek have long supported Sunni Islamists in Syria, bombing Kurd, practically doing nothing against smugglers who operate from Turkish territory. While they have sealed the line for the Kurd, they are allowing tanks with Islamic State oil and terrorists to flow through, including those who have participated in the assassinations in Paris, to support this. However, the European Union, and especially German Chancellor Merkelová, are betting a lot on Turkey and, for the promised three billion euros, Erdogan should have stopped illegal migration to Europe. In addition, the head of the German Government has promised to take hundreds of thousands of migrants from the Turek and divide them by quotas across the European Union. Dawn tells this procedure clearly - no! In our opinion, the European Union could use these three billion, perhaps six, and perhaps more, for example, thirty, which Erdogan and Turkey are talking about, much better, could be used to protect Schengen borders consistently. And the Czech Republic should start defending itss as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to point out that Dawn is really the only party that is taking real steps. And so I would respond to my colleague Šarapatka, who spoke here at the beginning, and he is right that constant speaking, speaking, speaking, and it is also evident in the committees, when we were now on the V4 in Poland, constantly patting on the shoulders, not looking for clear paths, so he is right about that. But we have a bill prepared for asylum, asylum procedures to be dealt with outside Europe. We asked the government to put money out of the budget for technological border control, to define the funds for the adoption of 3,000 police officers who would be able to protect the border. Let's stop talking about helping everyone. I'm gonna do it again. I think the last event from Jihlava, in which there was absolute contempt for our help, when people who came and said: we are persecuted, help us, so in a very short time they say: move us to some nice apartments, we will not live in these painted cows. That's how I feel about contempt. And a colleague, Ondráček, said it here: "Sit on the plane and send it back immediately at their expense." As well as pictures of food packages lying on the ground, clothes lying on the ground. That's right. We're constantly hanging around values. It's also been dropped a few times. But if European elites and government are unable to do anything for those values, they are unable to stand up for them, those values are not free and they need to be fought for. And the last thing - the rule of law, too. We are talking about the rule of law, but, for example, Islamic law brings aspects that are incompatible with our law. And I believe that we will not tolerate these incompatible points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u68	I thank my colleague Černoch. Mr Chalupa's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u69	Thank you for the floor. I will only respond to what Mr Okamura and colleague Černoch have said here, through Mr President. Personally, I think what you're really doing and what you're seeing is that you're organizing a demonstration. You're constantly disturbing the public. What this House and the government are doing, it does in committees, it does in the bodies of the House, which deal with specific things focused on the performance of executives. And this country and the security forces are ready to deal with these things. Don't disturb the public! [[11.40 hours]] I'm not saying there's no need to be vigilant. These things are much more complicated. We're always hearing recurring things here. No one can suspect that I'm a fan of Islamization and that sort of thing, but look at it normally rationally. You can't even solve what you're saying here at the level of the Czech Republic. This is being dealt with at European Union level! What are we still talking about here? And the government in that Union is doing it! I'm not saying everything's okay here, but don't disturb the public! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u70	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš are registered with priority rights, but I still have two factual remarks from Mr Okamura and Mr Černoch. Please note that another meeting is called for at 12 o'clock and we will have to make an organized decision on this meeting, but now a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u71	Dear ladies and gentlemen, when I heard a member of Mr Chalupa's ANO government movement here, I can see how you're completely wrong about this fir. You live out of reality! You're saying I'm dealing with something here for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, a SPD that doesn't exist. So here I am showing you the current petition of Benešov citizens, which they made last week, as they respond to the Benešov city representative's resolution of February 1, 2016, from last week, when they try to prevent the government's intention to move illegal immigrants into a building that is in Benešov next to kindergarten and in addition to primary school. So you're saying that we're warning something that doesn't exist. At the same time, there is a petition of citizens a week old in the town of Benešov near Prague, where you are trying to move in. [[He's showing the petition.]] I heard from ČSSD representatives that it's not true that there's nothing there. Well, as a government party, you should also inform the citizens of Benešov! Currently this petition is only a week away, only this past week it has received nearly 3,000 signatures, and representatives of petents are going to hand over the first sheets from this petition on Monday to the petition committee. That means, you say the problem doesn't exist. And the citizens who live in Benešov themselves, and there are several thousand of them, so they know the problem, know about it, and collect signatures under a petition. So start working really hard! Tell the citizens the truth, don't let them know from Facebook that you want to move in some immigrants, which citizens of Rabbit on Jesenick, in the Pardubice Region learned it in December, where we have already helped them together with our partners and with local citizens, we have also petitioned, and I have also intersected the Prime Minister here. And most importantly, one by one, citizens learn that you want to move immigrants somewhere. So finally tell me where, when and where from the amount you've agreed to. And please don't say that nonsense again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u72	Now, Mr Černoch, then Mr Zemek, with a point of fact. Then Mr Foldyna, if he insists on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u73	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, Mr Chalupa. Member, take a look at the Committee on European Affairs. Speaking of disturbing people, we're not doing anything about it. I have proposed a point in the resolution, in which the committee of European affairs also clearly states that the government should not accept quotas. And you're a member of the government party. What was said here about an hour ago by the Minister of Foreign Affairs was a 50-minute monologue about what was. There wasn't a single solution, and it was Turkey's defense. That's all. Don't tell us we're concerned about citizens. It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u74	Now my colleague Zemek has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u75	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to my colleague Okamura. I am from Benešov County, and what has been said here is typical juggling with facts in Mr Okamura's submission. What he said here is all kinds of half-truths and mist. It was never considered that there would be a facility for asylum seekers or for refugees. There was some kind of media noise because there was an exchange of leadership at City Hall. Old management didn't give enough information. We asked questions or colleagues from the Security Committee asked the Minister. He's confirmed that there's no such thing to count on, not putting such facilities in residential areas. And I don't understand how anyone else here can take advantage of this subject. There's been some press reports, there's a clear statement that nothing's gonna be there, yet somebody's always trying to warm up on that political soup and spread panic among the people here. And I just refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u76	Thank you. Mr Foldyna's point of view is now in effect. Then, Mr Okamura, another point of fact, then another one. And I would like to point out that, although there are factual remarks, I will propose, at the latest, at 1148 hours under the Rules of Procedure, an interruption of this item, a suspension of the meeting. We can therefore vote on excluding the remaining points from the meeting because we have another meeting scheduled for 12 o'clock by decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u77	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, would like to see my colleague Tomio Okamur. Tomio Okamura, don't scare people with snowman in the summer! On January 29, the Interior Minister says there will be no asylum in Benešov - January 29! And three days later, you petition and scare people with a snowman in the summer! Please, I understand the seriousness of the situation, but let's not fool the nation out of here. They're picking up the political preferences somehow. Let's deal with transport infrastructure, health care and this, but let's not scare people with snowman in the summer!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u78	Thank you and Mr Tomio Okamura. And I won't allow any more factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, what the representatives of the ČSSD are doing here is indeed the highlight! We as the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, have absolutely nothing to do with this petition. We didn't hear about the petition until later last week when I was at a meeting with citizens in Benešov. So this is a petition initiated by the citizens of Benešov themselves without any action from us. So I repeat, stop lying and explain to the citizens of Benešov that there will be nothing there, because apparently thousands of Benešov citizens did not know about your intention. Because you keep saying different things. As for Mr Zemek, a Member for the ČSSD, I have recorded his statement on Facebook, where he writes that the government is not thinking, but the citizens obviously do not know about the location of immigrants in the centre of Benešov, because he is looking for locations that are not in the centers of the cities. So, Mr. Zemek, now state us here, and I call you to what locations the government of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL are going to place those illegal immigrants, which you have already agreed to over a thousand. So it needs to be clarified, and I still can't get the answer out of you! Not from the Prime Minister, etc. It is also interesting that Mrs Martina Vachtlová, a local journalist, is the organizer of the Benešov petition. That means, interestingly, even local journalists obviously don't have the information, and it would be good if you told the local media and others that you weren't going to put it next to the kindergarten and the elementary school, such a facility. But at the same time, you should say B, so where. And the last thing is that there is also Vice-President of the House and Head of the ANO movement, Mrs Jermanová, in the Council of Benešov. This means that once again you see that they are there - ČSSD MEPs are said to be interested in this, there is a top representative of the ANO movement. But there's one problem that I'm saying again that citizens themselves don't know anything about it, that nothing should be placed there. So please tell them. I think we've at least figured this out. I think this is perhaps the first positive point in this discussion that government officials here have assured us that there will be nothing at all in Benešov. However, I would like you to answer the question of where you will place them. So the citizens of other cities can prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-039-10-001-203.u80	Dear Members, honourable Members, Members of the Government, pursuant to § 54 para. 9 I have no choice but to interrupt this point and this meeting. I have a motion from the chairmen of the MPs to remove the remaining points from this meeting. That's a serious problem, because we're going to have this interrupted point in the situation... I say, first we have to decide on this point. I interrupted that one. The moment that... My colleague Chvojka was wrong because a colleague Okamura had previously been logged in electronically. But I have registered factual remarks from the point of view, not electronically, of Chvojka's MP and Richard Dolejš. First logged in with priority rights, so that there is no discussion like this morning, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. At this point. So that's how I end the interrupted point. Real remarks by colleagues Chvojka and Richard Dolejš and with priority rights the first Vice Prime Minister Babiš. That's the end of that point. [[11.50 hours]] Now, then, to the meeting itself. The proposal I have received is that we eliminate all unnegotiated points first. We will decide on this proposal in the vote number 222, but before I launch it, I will sign you all off and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will vote on the elimination of all unnegotiated points, I warn you, including this suspended point from this meeting. The 222 vote I started, I'm asking who's in favour of knocking out those points. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 222, from 114 in favour of 68, against 26. The motion was accepted. Since all the points have been eliminated from this meeting, I am terminating the meeting and we have nine minutes for a technical break before the 41st meeting begins. So we will continue at the 12 o'clock 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you, 9 minute break.
