ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u1	41. Government bill on central accounting / House printing 718/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a draft law on central accounts as press 718. Under number 719 is then a proposal for a related amendment law, which I will indicate later as point No. 42. The management of a central register, where it would be possible to obtain quick information where a legal or natural person has an account, is a long-term and unrealised requirement for the activities of tax authorities in criminal proceedings. In fact, such a measure has the potential to significantly simplify and accelerate their activities and to increase the ability to secure and absorb illegal means, whether they are proceeds from crime or from non-compliance with tax obligations. It is also relevant in anti-terrorist financing measures. That is why the EU institutions are currently discussing the introduction of an obligation to establish such registers in all Member States. They already work, for example. in France, Italy, Germany or Slovenia. The proposal prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the CNB is minimalist and balanced. The central account log shall contain information on the account number and the bank or cooperative savings bank that keeps it and the identification of the account owner and, where applicable, the disponents. The request for information from it should be limited to those authorities which, for really serious reasons, need such information very quickly and are justified by the relevant special laws currently in force. According to the agreement with the Governor, the record will lead to a sufficient guarantee of the protection of processed information for both credit institutions and relevant applicants for the real costs of the CNB. At the same time, this solution makes it possible to minimise the costs of building this register. The proposal was, of course, also consulted with the Office for Personal Data Protection, both from the point of view of adequate security of the data contained therein, as well as the retention of entries records for subsequent authorisation checks. From this point of view, it is considered beneficial, as also information about questions e.g. the authorities active in criminal proceedings will not spread as they have been so far among all the credit institutions in question. I would therefore like to ask you to support this bill. About his transfer to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies at first reading a proposal for a new law on central accounting prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the resolution of the Government of March 2014, when the first Vice-President of the Government for the Economy and the Minister of Finance was ordered to establish a central register of accounts. The operator would be the Czech National Bank, at the cost of the state. The draft law is intended to speed up and make more effective the information of the state authorities about the existence of accounts held by financial institutions such as the bank, the branch of a foreign bank and the savings and lending cooperative, namely legal persons, natural persons, trust funds and other legal arrangements without a legal personality. Although such information may be provided by law enforcement authorities to tax authorities (?), i.e. the Financial Analysis Service of the Ministry of Finance and the Intelligence Service, to obtain it at present, this journey is lengthy and inefficient when, if necessary, it has to send the financial institutions individually. Time in the event of crime detection and prosecution of criminal offenders thus plays a decisive role. The Czech National Bank will not record the status of the account or movements on this registry. Among other things, data from the period prior to the start of its activities will be entered in the central account log. They shall be archived for a period of five years in the case of registered data and data on audit inputs. A circle of persons entitled to receive data from central account records is not changed against the current state. The Czech National Bank will conduct statistics on the request of central accounts, which it will publish in the supervisory report. It will not be responsible for checking the validity of the request for data or for checking the accuracy and completeness of the data entered by the obliged entities in the register, but, on the other hand, it will check the performance of the obligation of the obliged entities in relation to the central account register during supervision. The proposed legislation is in accordance with the rules forming constitutional order as well as with the international treaties under Article 10 of the Constitution and does not conflict with the valid case law of the Constitutional and Supreme Court of the Czech Republic. The effectiveness of the draft law shall be 15 days after its publication, with the exception of the provisions listed, which shall take effect on the first day of the 16th calendar month following its publication. I recommend agreeing to the draft law on central accounting at first reading and release it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek entered first and foremost. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. After that, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will try to be relatively very brief because, in fact, a proposal could be made, as is now presented, and understood. I would like to remind you that I have thought in a similar way. The current practice is that when a legitimate institution gets consent to enter an account in the fight against terrorism, money laundering, it has to turn to all the financial houses in the country, ask if it is or is not its client, gets a few dozen negative answers, one to two positive ones and then turns to them with a request. Which is not only a time lag, but it is quite very expensive because you write on dozens of places and spend administrative and postal costs on negative answers. The fact is, I never thought of it when I prepared it and put it into the government that I never thought anyone would think that there should be anything on the register other than that Mr Mihola - a colleague who forgives - is a client at Komerční banka. And that, of course, it can't be there at all, what kind of products it has there, and, of course, God forbid, you can see the balances in the account. I didn't really think of that. When we found out that the Ministry of Finance actually thought of it under the current minister, we were quite frightened. That's one reason why I don't think it's possible to support it at this point because it's gonna be like with the jeezes -- one little finger we stick in, and then we say that at least the products will be found out and so on. The second reason is that there's quite a lot of the big brother here. We're just starting to centrally register everything. Today we have approved central medical registers, so apart from our accounts, the state wants to know everything about our sexual diseases or abortions. There is a law on the table on sports where the state registers or will want to register all athletes. I can already see myself being taken to Bartholomew with a blunt baton and a sharp light being forced to admit that I'm no longer an athlete, even though I'm registered. And these registers are supposed to be, I guess, about eleven. And it's too much. Moreover, the State has repeatedly demonstrated that it is unable to conceal confidential data. Some confidential data appear. They appear purposefully, appear in the most inappropriate situations, and it is clear that they are simply escaping and that they are being traded and that the state is gathering confidential data of its citizens, but is unable to protect them. The Minister has also shown many times that he is using confidential data. For political purposes, I'm sure I don't know whether or not I know for my private business, but he's proven the political ones several times. These are all the reasons why our political factions will vote in favour of rejection. We cannot support this law, although I believe that in time it is necessary to return to the idea, because it has a material ratio, but in a slightly different culture and certainly with other members of the government, at least with the person who has translated it now. And pros, if, Mr. Minister, in the course of the discussion, even if it's a little off topic, you wouldn't try to tell us who really owns the stork's nest, we'd be quite interested. But they say you don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u7	Thank you to Chairman TOP 09. Another duly signed up is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u8	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will not lead this in a personal way like my previous speaker, but nevertheless allow me to make a few remarks on this register of accounts as well. And rest assured, I have always rejected the account register as an idea, even for the governments of which I was a member of the government coalition, and I have always considered it an extremely, extremely dubious and dangerous idea. I will try to explain why and try to explain why I think this law, in the form in which it is translated, cannot and cannot be approved. The first danger that lies in the account register. The fact that somewhere there would be a register of accounts in which someone can find out who keeps the account is not such a problem. The problem, of course, is that the moment I say there's upgrades every day, there's a really fast rise in the fact that it would be great to know not only that I have an account there, but what's also in the account. I know it's basically every finance department - and now I don't blame this finance minister, but every finance department will come up with such a nice idea, because it's such a beautiful theory to know as much as possible about citizens and to be able to watch what they do and what they don't do. That's the first danger that there's no barrier to it. The second danger, which I consider to be much more fundamental, is who has access to such a registry of accounts and whether whoever has access to such a register of accounts is somehow controlled. And that, unfortunately, in this case, in the case of this government bill, is not, at all! Then it's pointless to have a dramatic discussion here about whether or not secret services have the right to break bank secrets if we admit here that every single one of the state authorities can break it and control itself. The thesis referred to in Section 17: The administrator of the central account records does not check the accuracy and completeness of the data when transmitting them to credit institutions for entry in the central account records and is not responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data received. That means someone's running the register, but they're not responsible for what's on that register. And when any bank invents that I have a relationship with it, and puts this information in the central account register, I have no chance of defending myself against it, because whoever runs the registry is not responsible and responsible, or can only be held accountable by those who transmit the data to him, whether they transmit it in full form. If they give them to him in true form, that's with a big question mark. If he didn't get any more readings in there, he can't control it at all. And then the second part of paragraph 17 (b). 4 says: The administrator of the central account log does not check compliance with the conditions for submitting a request for the provision of data from the central account log pursuant to § 6 para. It shall not be liable under these conditions. So I run the register, I have all the citizens' accounts in it, I'm not responsible for what's in the register, I don't care who's entering it, except that they're some institutions, and he doesn't check whether those institutions have the right to enter it. Well, we really could have had the register made public! So let's say it's a public register, and let's not pretend it's a registry that only some organs have access to. [[18.10 hours]] Because, of course, these authorities have rules that allow them to enter the accounts of private individuals, whether they are law enforcement authorities, where prior to the prosecution they need the consent of the prosecutor, after the prosecution needs the consent of the judge, whether it be the FAU and other authorities of the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration, Customs Administration, Intelligence Service. All these authorities need some kind of permission to enter a specific account, some kind of consent, whether a prosecutor or a judge, in defined cases, in the case of secret services, judges of the Supreme Court. And all of a sudden, the person who gives them the data isn't authorized, and he's not even obliged to check to see if they have that kind of consent. Well, then everyone will enter the system, regardless of whether or not they have such consent, they'll just look at you there, and only if they find out where you are, maybe they'll ask the state's attorney or the judge if he can look at your particular account. But the fact that you're listed in the account register only illustrates the fact that the prosecutor or other authority will give his address from which he can illustrate. On the other hand, there's no control that checks who asks there, there's no record that checks how many times he's asked why he asked if the state's attorney who lives next to me in my apartment checked just because I pissed him off because I didn't take out the trash, or if he was really saving some crime. I don't think it's completely unthinkable for the state to run a database like this, not responsible for what's in it, and not responsible for who's leaking it to. And each organ should be held accountable for itself. Is there anyone in this country who thinks it's possible to check every prosecutor and go to his files to see if he's looked right or wrong? I am therefore deeply convinced with my knowledge of the criminal trial that this is not possible. This means, if we happen to want to admit something like this, such a proposal, either it has to, for the right, answer the processor, which is the Czech National Bank, or we have to say that there is someone else, whether it should be the body of this House, the court, invent whom we want, a government that sometimes has the right to come and check who entered, why he entered and whether he had the authority to do so. The idea that I'm going to say "they're only addresses, and you can send that request from those addresses at any time, and no one checks your credentials" seems really dangerous to me for the functioning of this country and terribly dangerous for every individual citizen. That's why I'd ask too much. At this point, I do not propose rejection, I think it was proposed by colleague Kalousek, I will vote for him because I think it is very difficult to process. But if the bill goes through, and I assume it's a government proposal, it's probably going to go through the committee's meeting, so I would ask too much that the bill be ordered to the constitutionally-law committee, not just to the budget committee, because I think that this constitutional plane, this, that there is a record in which a citizen is placed against his will, and there is no control over what data is being placed on him, and there is no control over who requires the data - and it is with a big question mark, if I have a right as a citizen at all, as I have to all the other registers, first of all, to find out what is being kept in that register about me, secondly, if I find out how many civil servants, how many people from the Ministry of Finance, how many people from the public prosecutors, how many people I had a loan, with someone set up account, five years ago, and where I still have accounts. That is what I think are really very dangerous things, and I think it is also necessary to look at this from the point of view of really protecting the personal rights of each individual. Therefore, I would ask that the bill be subsequently ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I highly recommend that we do not think of any shortening of deadlines here. It's not something that's in a hurry. Unfortunately, what Mr Kalousek said here is rather his information from the time when letters were written to the bank houses. Today, of course, all the authorities who want to communicate with banking houses communicate through emails, verified signatures, absolutely without any problems. It's not that you have to write 30, 50 letters. Send out 30, 50 e-mails, their price is, I don't want to say zero, but very close to zero, and you have the answers by the second day. So it's not that simple. But there you have to prove that you're authorized to apply to that bank house, and on the basis of what file, based on the permission you have to prove. You won't have to prove it here, and that's where the danger of this bill lies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u9	I thank Mr Benda. Now, the rapporteur, Mrs Zelienková, with priority rights. Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u10	Thank you, rapporteur, because I just want to clarify. The Member referred to me as having put forward a motion for rejection, and I feel that I only formulated it by voting in favour of the motion for rejection, so to be clear, so please, I am filing a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u11	Thank you, I'm filing a motion to dismiss. Now, please, Mrs Zelienková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u12	Thank you for the debate that took place here and which was very interesting. I'd just like to, maybe I've read too quickly the text I've got here so I don't hold up too much, and I guess somewhere I've been giving information that the Czech National Bank won't record the status of the account or movements on this registry. Otherwise, I would like to propose a reduction in the time to discuss the committees by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u13	Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u14	I would ask the Minister if he could answer the questions that have been raised, because if you look at the provisions of Sections 17 and 6, they are against each other. In Section 6, we describe all that is entitled, all that must have, and at the same time we say that the person who processes the application does not have to control it. So why do we say that there must be a file tag from the secret services when the registry administrator simply sends it regardless of whether the file tag is there, it's true whether it exists or not. So that Section 17 absolutely denies the previous paragraphs that say who is entitled and what the request contains. I'm gonna send an application somewhere, like I.D., and this office is gonna give it to me, and it's not gonna check to see if I'm... That's how it's written. We're pretending that it's going to be controlled or that it's not just anyone, but no one's checking. I don't understand at all, the cooperation of paragraphs 6 and 17. But what's the worst... No, I have one more question, technically. Why does the update have to be every working day by 12 o'clock? That's what I'd really like to know. That it's not online like EET, I'm surprised, it could be online from the bank. You sign account creation and chop, and until the CNB tells you it's on the register, they're not gonna set you up with that account. I don't understand. If this is how law enforcement agencies work online, it has to be updated every day by 12 o'clock. At least what's supposed to be there is an electronic trace. Who asked at what time so that it could be checked at any time? I have a personal experience. Try asking the authorities to look at the register sometime. You have the right as citizens. I do it sometimes. When I became Minister, four ministries suddenly controlled my whole family, out of nowhere. But there you won't know who it was, you'll just know it was from this ministry, from this ministry. It could be a coincidence, of course. I don't quite believe it. [[18.20 hours]] But now the greatest danger to the law. Unfortunately, this government, some of its members, pretends that they want to fight Brusel and that Brussels is not quite okay. In this case, unfortunately, he's using a successful brussels technique of salami. Now they're just account numbers. But if it goes away, what's next? Account balance? I guarantee you that those who support this will come in a year, in two, in three, in four, in five, and the law enforcement authorities will come up with this, that people need to work effectively so they don't get out of the office at all, so they can sit on their computer, that they'll need an account. And that won't be enough once a day, because you know that today's movement is very fast. And that's the danger. Today, the government may say: we do not want to do this, but we have noted a public debate that some of the members of the government have already come up with the idea that they want to know the balances on the bill today. In the end, it is not there, because this was particularly contradicted by the Czech National Bank. But what's not today can be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. It's much better not to introduce it than to introduce it and then gradually expand it. And I guarantee you, if you approve, because we're not gonna do that, so we're gonna amend the law, and we're gonna increase the circle of legitimates who want to draw from it. Next time, the Magistrates will need it. Why wouldn't they know if somebody did? It's gonna take bailiffs to see if anyone has an account to bail out. And they're gonna want to know how much they have there, if it makes sense to enforce it. I really think the best way is to stop it right now while there's still time and until we have it in the legislation. Otherwise, I'd like to know where the situation gets better if we put it in place. I read in the paper how a poor cop writes something and the bank answers for a month. I would like to see the statistics specifically, we can ask the police president how many times they asked and what was the average time of reply. Because that's not what bank representatives are telling us. That it never lasts a month. I don't know where the truth is, and I don't know. But as an executive, the government has a chance to find out statistics, not specific things, and it can do it in specific banks, and if any of them are out of line, it's a matter that we can deal with individually and not by making a register of accounts about everyone. I have to say, this isn't the first time the idea has come up, and I'm afraid it won't be the last time. But he's never passed. I'm begging you, let's not let this go to committees. There's not much we can do to fix that. The principle is dangerous. Yes, we may change § 17 and the person who will provide the information will have to check whether the file mark exists, whether the court decision exists, but nothing changes on the principle itself. I would really ask whether this goes through to second reading or not, and it is in the interest of the government to ask one of the ministers as a whole for the statistics, or the government as a whole, how long the bank's response lasts when the law enforcement authorities ask whether or not the person has an account in a particular bank. Because I think it's a factor, and unfortunately, we don't have it in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u15	I thank the Prime Minister. Sorry, Minister, first of all, with a factual remark from Mr Ivan Gabal. After him with priority rights, Minister Babiš. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out here that this is not legislation that would be the idea of an existing coalition, but has been detained for 15 years. I can remind you of billions of privatization funds that the FAÚ couldn't hold, because if I'm not mistaken, it's a 48-hour investigation period, and it hasn't mapped the route in that time. The FAO was crippled the moment Ivan Langer shut down the FIPO because they stopped having a police partner. It's a fact that I'm only missing one argument that if we didn't implement it at a time when we were the biggest cash machine in casinos, prostitution, and drugs for half of Europe, it's fun now. I agree there must be an electronic trace. I will not agree to shortening the deadline, I will propose a Security Committee. But what kind of argument is that coming from this side? Do you want me to count it further, how long have you been blocking it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u17	I thank Mr Gabal. I'm sorry, there are other factual points. First of all, Mr Ondráček, after Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, especially now I would like, by your means, to President Stanjur. If he's interested, I was an institution active in criminal proceedings, and I demanded data subject to banking secrecy, and I know what kind of trouble it was. There are no statistics on how long the answer lasted. Sometimes it was five days, sometimes it was a week, sometimes it was 14 days, sometimes it also took five to eight weeks. Unfortunately, not all banks were addressed, but only those where the client was supposed to have an account. If we're only going to talk about the central registry, that means finding out where the client's account is, and then reaching out to a specific bank, it's definitely going to make their work easier for law enforcement authorities, and it's a shame we're only doing it now, because it was supposed to be here 15 or 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u19	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u20	Thank you. I apologize to you, Mr Gabal. But I really didn't understand him, because the problem he was talking about here is that the FAÚ has a 48-hour retention period, it can extend it to 72 particularly important cases, has nothing to do with the draft we're discussing. Not at all. We're discussing a draft account registers. The moment the FAO blocks and hours are counted from the time of the lockdown, of course, he knows which account is blocking, and at that point he doesn't need the register at all. These are two different topics. I'm afraid you've been discussing a completely different issue, or I'm already misunderstood by late evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights - once again with the factual remark of Mr Gabal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u22	Just to explain. I'll take another example in the area of terrorist financing. We have to find the way the money flows quickly. If someone brings them in cash, puts them somewhere, then moves them and sends them away, and at the end of the FAO transfer, they find out they're leaving, they're detained, and we need to track where they went, then things connect. That's the point. We also have fundamental problems with organized crime to track money flows, i.e. revenues. And the whole work of the FAO, because I know this very closely, was about the fact that it took a long time for them to get information about the accounts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u23	With a point of fact, Mr Kalousek first, followed by Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u24	Let's not worry, you guys are gonna push it into second reading, and you can find out at second reading. Indeed, mapping the money flow from the moment the FAO holds a certain amount in any account and then maps the flow has nothing to do with the account register. That's just two dead ends. And there's no connection. You'll see for yourself at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u25	With another factual remark, Mr Jan Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Just so I understand, we're arguing here whether it's gonna take a month or a week. I think this is about cases where we need to find out in a matter of hours. I am convinced that if this instrument were in the world at the time of the H-System and could really quickly detain any money in the accounts, block it, so there wouldn't be so many unfortunate and robbed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u27	That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u28	Thanks for the word. He actually took a little wind off my sails, Mr. Gabal, because he's right. That's a law that's been discussed for ten or fifteen years. I don't have the specific information right now, but I remember my colleagues remembering that it was already in the government once. It was here that colleagues were with the government, and it was said that it did not go through with one voice of the Minister of the Interior. But I can trace it next time, and I'll keep you posted. So it's not, as they say, my invention, but it's something that's been there for 15 years, and I think it's necessary because the data that's being requested today, and the officials say it takes an average of 40 to 45 days for the bank to respond to a letter from the police or the state's attorney. This is just about the time. It's just that somebody's gonna find out that the account exists. And please don't tell me about the remains. It's not really there. It's just the existence of an account. So this is just about time for the money not to go away, because from practice officials say, in the past, there was someone who was served by a private banker, and he whispered it somehow, and then the money vanished, the state was late. So it's really just the time difference, the speed. And I'll ask about the statistics. I'll ask the Financial Administration, I'll ask the Customs Department, I can ask the Home Secretary to tell us how they see it. And I don't have a problem with that. But again, it's very simple. We're gonna get the information that the law enforcement authorities are getting today in a fast way. That's all. And it's been a really long time, and we need it because organized crime is fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u29	Thank you, Minister. Now, President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u30	So first, I would ask the Minister to address the Czech Banking Association, so that we have news of that time from both sides - from those who write, even from those who respond that its members tell us that it is a fiction that there is no 40-45 days. I think it can be compared when both sides of communication give their views and their numbers, whether or not the numbers match, so that we know where the truth is. I just don't know. And if there are statistics, it's only right. But the Minister did not really answer the contradiction between § 17 and § 6 para. 2. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 it is written that the administrator does not check the fulfilment of the conditions for submitting a request for the provision of data from a central account log pursuant to § 6 para. 2. And so I ask, what is the point of Article 6 (6)? 2 when no one's checking? And when I was talking about an electronic trace, I wasn't just talking about the ones who are sending in, but also the ones who are working with it. Yes. And if there's a controller coming in, but no one's checking the register's work in that law, then they can find out: yes, this guy's been there 30 times, he's got it in his job description, it's fine. We know what day he's been looking at for an hour. That's what the software normally does to you if you put it that way. That's not the problem. Okay, first of all, to see who's asking, but also to see if he was inside, but most importantly, if he runs through it and I see that there's a will to let it go into second reading, then figure out someone who's gonna control the work with the registry. There's no one in that law at all. It even says that whoever's in charge can't control it. Then it's out of control. Completely. There will be a register of all citizens of the Czech Republic who have a bank account. I have noticed somewhere a proposal from our modern neo-Marxist left that every person has the right to a bank account and it is necessary to order banks to set up anyone who asks whether he has money or not. Well, there'll be quite a lot of bills and information. And we need to know who's working with the registry and whether there's relevant information and if those who want the information are authorized to do so. Without that, it's really like my colleague Marek Benda said, a public register, and we can read in the evenings how our co-workers use the bank and think, so if that co-worker is doing it, he's so well versed in finance, he's got this bank, so maybe I'll go over there too, it'll probably be a good banking institution when my co-worker's doing it. Without it, it's completely open and leaky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u31	Thank you to President Stanjur. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If no one reports, I will end the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur, as appropriate. Not interested. So we're going to deal with the draft of the commandment... Sorry. There is a motion to reject the proposal at first reading, as submitted by President Kalousek. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. We shall vote on the rejection of the proposal. [[Noise in the hall.]] There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the rejection of the proposal already in the first reading. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 272, registered 136 Members and Members, for 28, against 77. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will address the motion for a committee's order for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u32	My colleagues may curse me, but I would suggest a Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u33	Like a guarantee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u34	Not as a guarantee, sorry, next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u35	I asked about the guarantee committee, Mr. Ambassador. So I take it you're not proposing as another guarantee committee. There's a proposal for a budget committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets being a guarantee committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 273; 137 Members and Members are registered, for 135, against none. I note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment to discuss? Mr Gabal - I presume the Security Committee. [[Noise in the hall. Screams from the right.]] The Constitutional Committee. Yes, please, if you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u36	Let's do it again. The Security Committee, please, and I will represent the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-016-041.u37	Security Committee, Constitutional Committee. There's no other suggestion. So we're going to vote. First of all, the Commandment of the Security Committee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the Commandment of the Security Committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 274, registered 138 Members, for 75, against 18. The motion was accepted. Next, we will vote on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee. I have begun voting on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee? It is voting number 275, registered 138 Members, for 134, against 1. The motion was accepted. The last proposal we will be voting on is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. The rapporteur's proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is to shorten the deadline by 30 days, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 276, registered 138 Members, for 68, against 59. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. We also ordered the proposal to the Committee on Security and the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. [[18.40 hours]] The next item is:
