ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 575/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u2	Hello, Mr President, dear Members of Parliament. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. The aim of the proposal is to ensure proper and cost-effective management of agricultural land held by the State. To this end, Law No 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office, as amended, proposes a new way of defining and dividing the state agricultural land, its reserves and modifications to the conditions under which the State Land Office manages this reserve. Newly, all land with which the State Land Office is competent to manage and is necessary for the exercise of its competence, while the total minimum size of these land must not fall below 50,000 hectares. Within the scope of its competence, the State Land Office shall, in particular, make the land adjustments necessary following the changes made in the legal relations of the land following restitution and privatisation. To this end, the State Land Office will also supplement the reserve of state agricultural land by purchasing, exchanging and exploiting the pre-emptive law of the State. The provision of state agricultural land also includes the land needed for the implementation of development programmes of the State, which are defined under the current regulation by Government Regulation No. 218/2014 Sb. This part of the reserve should be adjusted on an ongoing basis according to future needs of the State, respectively. ministries under administrative procedure, on the basis of which entries in the real estate register will then be made for the land concerned. In Law No. 229/1991 Coll., on land, with regard to the current area of state agricultural land with which the State Land Office is competent to manage and the limited possibility of offering land to public offers to satisfy the remaining restitution claims in the form of the provision of substitute land, it is proposed to limit possible forms of compensation to cash compensation only. This amendment in the relevant provisions of Act No. 229/1991 Coll. it has delayed efficiency by two years. The reason for deferred efficiency is to exhaust all the possibilities which the State has to satisfy the rights of the beneficiaries, i.e. in the form of the provision of substitute land. At the same time, it is proposed that a period of 10 years be set for the exercise of the remaining claims on the refund. The Government Bill was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 25th meeting on 2 December 2015 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government Bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted are in line with the concept of the petitioner, they will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. If another amendment is tabled, which will extend the House's press 575 to the draft amendment of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, I also agree with it, and I dare you to support it in the third reading. Its basic objective is to enable aid granted by the Support and Guarantee Fund, the Joint Undertaking, to cover risk management and crisis management activities caused by adverse economic, climatic or zoo-terinary effects, so-called the difficult-to-insolvency risks, could have been financially managed under Section 75 of the Budget Rules Act only after the end of the grant of this aid and not annually at the end of the calendar year. The proposal is also supported by the Ministry of Finance, with which the proposal was prepared and discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 575/1 and 575/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Petr Kudela, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law was very comprehensively commented by the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka, so I will just say that the draft law was submitted by the Government to the House on 25 August 2015. The aim of the bill is to ensure proper, economical management of land owned by the State with its jurisdiction to the State Land Office. The size of the State land necessary for the implementation of the development programmes of the State approved by the Government and for the land arrangements required following changes in legal relations with the land after restitution and privatisation will be maintained. The first reading was 20. 10. 2015. The proposal was directed to the agricultural committee. The Agricultural Committee discussed the draft law 11. 11. and adjourned the hearing. It set a deadline for the submission of amendments on 25 November. Two amendments have been tabled. Mr Kudela's amendment to the State Land Office and the Ministry of Agriculture, which has already been commented by the Minister of Agriculture. The second proposal, Mr Šenfeld, relating to the preservation of the coma and the rules on the sale of lands for gardeners. The proposal prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture was supported. Mr Šenfeld's proposal was not supported in the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u5	Is that all? [[Yes.]] Okay. Thank you. I therefore open a general debate in which I register one application. Mr. Josef Šenfeld. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to justify my amendment, which concerns - or I propose to repeal paragraph 22, paragraph 22. The amendment to this present law proposes the removal of the provisions of Section 11, which deal with the so-called Land Land Land Landings, where, at the request of the owner, neighbouring land owned by the State could have been transferred, unless its area exceeded 10 per cent of the area of the neighbouring land. The explanatory memorandum states that the provisions governing the transfer of agricultural land at the request of the owner of the adjoining plot are abolished in order to maintain the concept of the reserve of state land, i.e. to avoid excessive reduction of the State land area. Furthermore, it is claimed that the applicability of this provision in practice was limited and in the present law set up a mechanism for the valuation of the transferred land, respectively. The recovery of the transfer was disadvantageous for the State in terms of sound and efficient management of the assets in respect of the small amounts of land transferred in relation to the costs. The objectives of the transfer can also be met in the future, in particular in the context of land arrangements by a new land arrangement. It is not possible to agree with the removal of the relevant provision of the Act on the State Land Office and its aforementioned reasoning, given the problems which the agricultural entrepreneurs still have fragmented soil holdings. Land adjustments are certainly a very important tool to address these problems, but this is a matter of a very long period of time. In addition, there have been several changes in legislation in recent years, which have made the situation even more difficult. This is an amendment to the Law on Land, i.e. Act No. 229/1991 Coll., on the modification of property relations to land and other agricultural assets, as amended, adopted in 2011, which released a link from the provisions of § 22 to the disappearance of the lease relationship from the law on inaccessible land to land adjustments. Furthermore, the transitional provision in the Act on the State Land Office was abolished for a period of free use established by Law No. 284/1991 Coll., as amended by Act No. 38/1993 Coll., on the date preceding the date of entry into force of the Act. In both cases, institutes which have solved at least part of the problems associated with fragmented soil holding have been removed from the legislation in force. In view of the pace of implementation of land treatment, agricultural holdings are facing major problems in the requirements of land owners at the end of the lease relationship, as these land are generally not a comprehensive land holding, but are fragmented into a number of unrelated parcels and are generally not even accessible. [[16.30 hours]] As such, I consider the institute so called. Comasation provided for in Section 11 of the Act on the State Land Office for a very important instrument contributing to an effective solution to at least some of the above-mentioned problems associated with fragmented soil holding. For the reasons already mentioned, I ask you to maintain the existing provisions of Section 11 as amended and to refrain from its proposed annulment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u7	I thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Since I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur and the appellant whether you want to take the final words. It's not like that. Initiating a detailed debate and registering three applications. Mr. Josef Šenfeld is the first to prepare Mr. Petr Kudela. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to formally sign up for my amendment, which is in the electronic system under number 3526. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u9	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Petr Kudela, Mr Petr Bendl, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have included three amendments into the system. The amendment under number 3530 addresses the transfer of agricultural parcels in garden and chat settlements, the amendment under number 3588 in part of the fifth draft law addresses the amendment of the Act on the property of the Czech Republic, Amendment 3825 in part 6 proposes an amendment to the Water Act, when it is proposed that the waterwork is not part of the land on which it is located. It's a change caused by an amendment to the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u11	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Minister, I have spoken quite extensively about this press at first reading and at the meeting of the agricultural committee and after the debate - and non-discourse, because I expected the Minister to answer some of my questions on the committee at least in his introductory words - I have to make a motion to reject this law and I just want to say one brief reason for this proposal. The proposal in question brings, when I say simply, the concentration of state land in the hands of the State Land Office, saying that it is for the State to have enough land, which it might need for various exchanges and exchanges in the enforcement of priority government projects, i.e. not only the Ministry of Agriculture projects, but also the Ministry of Transport projects, and others, other ministries, which will want to obtain some land through their priorities. I consider it a mistake that the government did not ensure in this respect that it had greater supervision and control and a better chance of ensuring that any government priorities could already be secured at the State Land Office. I could imagine that there would be some sort of supervisory board or board delegated from individual departments, possibly from other state bodies or public institutions, so that it would not only be possible to check whether the exchange that will take place is really taking place with the title of proper economy, because I believe that this process, as set up, will lead to chaos and to projects at all as such - rather delaying them, not a chance for them to resolve quickly. And it does not only concern government projects, but also general public administration, or, as stated in the law, you will only reach the land through administrative proceedings, where it is possible to appeal almost indefinitely, go to court with it, etc. etc., that this complicates the life of the government and the state and public administration in general. That's one reason. The other reason is much more serious. It concerns the restitution dot, where the number of potential restitutionists is no longer involved, I do not mean the traffickers of restitutions, but really the restitutions, has fallen radically and it is no longer a minority, rather a significant majority, and by this draft law we will put the restitutionrs who had previously received the natural compensation into an unequal position, now they will receive only funds - and I was hoping that the minister here will either disprove or confirm, as I opened the matter at the meeting of the agricultural committee - awarded by decree of 90, i.e. that these restitutionists, if they didn't have a chance to get to the land at all as such, would get them in a valuation much lower than their land would be worth today. I think it's on the verge of constitutionality, maybe even beyond the brink, which is why I propose that the law be rejected at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've registered your proposal, we'll vote on it at third reading. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. The rapporteur, then the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u14	Mr President, I will do a short recap of second reading. Mr Šenfeld spoke in the general debate, Mr Šenfeld spoke in a detailed debate with a contribution relating to the coma, Mr Kudela, who tabled three amendments, and Mr Bendl, who made a motion to reject the law and justified this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u15	Thank you, too. I will now ask the Minister for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u16	Thank you. I would like to react briefly, because I have repeated some things at the first reading and at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, but since, of course, all Members could not have been on the Committee on Agriculture, even if the arguments were made at first reading, I will repeat two key points. Firstly, I think that if the State Land Office or the Land Fund had long been the main guarantor of state land for any investment measure, what had happened in the past would not have happened, that the State was able to sell land, where provenly from its strategic plans, from the prospect of building folk buildings he knew that he would need land purchase, we were able to, and it was also in past and past governments, to sell land that we in two, in three, in four, in five years again expensively bought out. So that's why it's a measure. It is not a concentration of power, but it is a rational measure designed to contribute to the state and its organisational units being economically and having one key place to communicate future land needs for the state's investment projects. The second thing Mr Bendl says, I have also responded to this in the past, and I will do it again now. The original principle in the settlement of restitution claims was that, at first, restitution claims were settled only for land, then there was also a possibility to settle financially, and today we return to the fact that we have a transitional period where it will still be possible for restitutionists and holders of those claims to apply in the next two years under the possibility of land settlement, with the fact that there will be a ten-year settlement period and then a definitive restitution period. Because I do not think that this state should, let's say, have more than 30 years here, when it is de facto no longer able to bring the process to a successful end, but on the contrary, due to the relatively small demands that today are, I have to say that more than ten thousand claims are up to one thousand crowns. These are claims that you will not settle on land, which can only be dealt with financially, and thanks to inheritance proceedings these claims are further animated. [[16.40 hours]] That is why this process, which we think gives us a chance to satisfy the demands. At the same time, I say that in the past and now over the last few years, there have been citizens who have received settlements in financial compensation at the level of the 1990s. We cannot say that the state here would behave unfairly, unpredictablely, because both possibilities of settling these claims were implemented by the State Land Office and previously the Land Fund implemented in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-006-006.u17	Thank you. The final words were spoken. Since no further proposal has been made, I thank you and conclude the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's program, and that's
