ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u1	52. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /house print 608/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, before I begin my opening words, I would like to ask whether we could - or I would like to propose a merged debate on the Houses of the Press 608 and the Houses of the Press 609, which are building on each other. This means adding to this Government Railway Act a government bill on the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u3	So, I'm gonna call our colleagues from the lobby, and we're gonna vote on a merger... Sorry, after the opening words, Minister, I do not allow myself to vote until the start of the debate. So now I ask for your opening word and I will put it to the vote before the opening of the general debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u4	Okay. So once again, Mr President. The subject matter of the draft law on railways is, in particular, ensuring the transposition of the European Directive on the creation of a single European railway area. This is a rather extensive entry into the Act on Railways and some related laws, which contains inputs of both partial nature and changes of conceptual character. The proposal shall, in particular, affect the following areas: Categorisation of runways and definition of access to individual categories of runways. Here, in particular, a new category of local railways is introduced, the rules for access to trains are being amended and the adjustment of access rights to national and regional runways, including the procedure for limiting the operation of the runway, is being added. [[13.20 hours]] Two. Operation of service facilities. This is a new regulation which, following the directive, defines rail transport services and regulates the rights and obligations of operators of such installations and carriers using services in such facilities. The basic requirement is non-discriminatory access of carriers to such facilities. Three. Access to the operation of the carrier. A new version of the amendment to the granting of licences for the operation of rail transport is proposed here, where, in particular, certain partial requirements are already incompatible with the Union regulation, as well as certain provisions redundant with regard to the general regulation of the administrative rules. Four. Track capacity allocation. This is the new wording of the adaptation of the procedure of the railway operator when negotiating with carriers for access to railway infrastructure for the purpose of the annual timetable and ad hoc rides. There is a refinement of the adaptation and consolidation with the Union's adjustment. The resolution of the dispute between the railway operator and the carrier before the special authority and certain partial requirements for the terms of the contract between the railway operator and the carrier are also followed. Five. Assessment of the threat to the economic equilibrium of rail transport operated under a public service contract. This is a new arrangement allowing, on the basis of an official review, access to rail infrastructure for carriers whose services could significantly undermine the economic balance of public passenger transport services. Such an adjustment has been in place for a long time as part of bus transport. Six. Adjustment of the scope and procedure of rail inspection in the emergency investigation. These are amendments to the legislation aimed at eliminating the partial non-compliance of the existing version of the Railway Safety Directive with the Railway Safety Directive. In particular, it is a limitation of the scope of the railway inspection for emergency investigations, the exclusion of the exercise of State control and the imposition of sanctions and the clarification of the rules for the implementation of this investigation. In addition to the above topics, the proposal also contains related changes in the area of administrative punishment and the organisation of railway administration, in particular in relation to the proposed establishment of the Office for the Protection of Enterprise in Transport, and certain partial national arrangements, in particular in the field of felling of trees along the railways and the construction of railways. The honourable Members, the proposal put forward by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies, are the result of long and very hard work and numerous negotiations with the bodies concerned and public authorities. It is essential for the implementation of European Union law, but it also contains solutions to national rail transport problems. Let me ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u5	I thank the Minister for his opening words. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Šidlo, whom I also ask if he wants a merged debate to propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u6	Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, colleagues, allow me to repeat very briefly certain passages from the Minister's interpretation when presenting this, or in the future, on the debate of the two amendments to the laws that appear here. The implementation of the directives of the European Parliament on the creation of a single European railway area is based on its directives and Council directives. It's a rail safety directive, an accident investigation and an accident on the runway. That Directive combines, recasts and repeals three previous Directives. It is the liberalisation of market access, the separation of infrastructure manager and carrier, the licensing of carriers and access to railway infrastructure. This Union amendment is not a novelty. The Czech legal order of the previous directive already contains. The evaluation at Union level changed the interpretation of certain provisions and thus changed the requirements for the regulation of the laws of each Member State. The amendment to the Railway Act responds to the European Commission's complaints about the application of the directive, which establishes a new office for the performance of state administration and regulation of access to railway transport infrastructure. At national level, the amendment takes into account experience from practice where certain provisions of the Railway Act create problems with their gapingness, relevant regulation and increasing costs of stakeholders. The amendment to the Railway Act also responds to the expansion of the electronicisation of the performance of public administration agendas. I found the most significant changes in the classification of railways, in the conditions of business of carriers and railway operators, in service facilities, in the performance remuneration system, in licences, in access to the runway and its limitations, in the organisation of the state administration in the field of rail transport, in the financing of railway infrastructure, in price regulation and in the investigation of accidents and incidents. In view of the high topicality and need to ensure transparent and objective conditions of access to the transport route, it is likely that the need for the establishment of an Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure is justified, which will ensure the lack of an article of the State Administration's body for the fully liberalised transport market in rail transport. Unfortunately, the above definition of its scope affects me the impression that it is only a certain arbitrary of disputes arising between the carrier requesting the share of the railway capacity and the provider. During the preparation of the legislative amendment in the Chamber of Deputies, which dates back to September last year, several representatives of various institutions have also approached me with an indication of the adverse effects on practice. According to their claim, their comments were not settled and duly discussed during internal and inter-ministerial discussions. I have assessed some of their concerns and arguments as justified, so let me mention them. Text changes do not guarantee rights Railway Infrastructure Administrations to a sufficient extent and do not provide the necessary support for the procedures necessary to ensure the operation of the railway infrastructure, both in Section 9 Entry to foreign land, in Section 10 Wood removal, in Section 23b Limiting the operation of the railway. For practice is a very dangerous exception from publicly accessible lifts for the mining, processing and energy industry. This will prevent isolated train operators from providing carriers with access to state transport infrastructure in large train areas. It concerns § 22a para. Article 4 (1) (a) a). Securing safe operation and eliminating the consequences of emergencies is also related to the operation of the fire rescue system unit. Once again, the amendment lacks the regulation of its existence as part of the obligation of the railway operator. It should, of course, be part of both Section 22, and Section 49. As a very dangerous thing, I see a permanent disregard for the terminology that was already approved in 2000. It's not accidents on the track, it's emergencies. It is necessary to comply with the applicable rules on rail transport and to categorize the incidents referred to in paragraphs 9, 23, 36 and 38. Another problem with the amendment is the limitation of the autonomy and independence of the railway inspection, the limitation of the scope of the emergency investigation obligations, which is contrary to the Directive of the European Commission, and is contained in Sections 53a and 53b. This relates to the limitation of the authorisation of rail inspection and its staff in the investigation of incidents, including the deterioration of the conditions for such activity. It is certainly necessary to return the railway inspection of the authorisation to carry out state supervision on the activities of transport operators and carriers, which is § 58. To introduce several problems, I am convinced that there must be sufficient room for the House to discuss the Economic Committee so that some of the comments can be incorporated by the petitioner into the proposed amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u7	I thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u8	I am sorry, Mr President, just one more thing. As was said at the very beginning here and it was still outside the legislative process, I would like to ask, as the press rapporteur, 608 to merge the general debate with the press 608 and 609, which are directly related, because the draft Railways Act is based on the existence of a new office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u9	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. Excuse me, I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's an application for check-out, I'm checking you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I have begun voting on the merger of the general debate on paragraphs 608 and 609. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting no. 412, 117 Members are registered, for 113, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have merged the general debate on paragraphs 608 and 609. I am opening a general debate on these two points, where Mr Bohuslav Svoboda made his first comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u10	I apologise, Mr President, for all of you, for my point of fact, that I voted 'no' in the vote, and I have 'yes' in the entry that I received in my hand. I would only ask for a correction in the minutes, I do not question the vote. Voting 403.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-005-052.u11	I thank Mr Svoboda. It will be recorded in the log. I'm sorry, I didn't notice, I take back my information that we started a general debate. First we will begin with paragraph 53, press 609, and then I will open a general debate. I'm sorry. So I'm starting a point.
