ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (the Health Services Act), as amended (the House Press 614/ - second reading We discussed this House press on 26 January, where we interrupted the general debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and the rapporteur for the first reading of the Committee on Health, Mr Pavel Antonín. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking at this stage. The rapporteur? Not either. So now we will continue the interrupted general debate. She has applied for the floor, and it is Mrs Marková's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me very briefly to support this bill, to support the establishment of the National Health Services Register, among other things due to the need to restart and cultivate the DRG system. In this context, however, it is necessary to talk about two dimensions of this bill, which inevitably raises certain questions that need to be answered before the final vote. First, dimensions are the role of the state in the system and second, the collection of sensitive data. The first question or the first dimension. If the State aims to cultivate a system for reporting payments and payments, it must be asked what it means and if our system is ready for this. If the Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic successfully completes its task and manages to penetrate the secrets of coding and reporting performances, what will be the consequence, what will be the impact these efforts will have on the party's contractual freedom, i.e. health care providers and health insurance companies, into conciliation procedures. The second dimension, the collection of sensitive data. When discussing this change, it cannot be ignored that the national register will be the subject of a comprehensive collection of non-anonymised data on all persons receiving health services covered by public health insurance and all services provided by it, including their frequency. Although the proposed amendment defines the purpose for which information is collected, it does so in a more general way, which, in some opinion, does not fully correspond to the nature and quantity of information with which registers are to work. In cases where it is assumed from the proposed modification that the content of the information collected will be extremely sensitive data, i.e. native numbers, demographic data, permanent residence, health status, etc., the justification for such modification and the need to process such data must always be measured by a test of proportionality against interference in the personal and personal sphere of the individual guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The question must therefore also be asked whether the proposed legislation is necessary, justified, effective and defendable in relation to the objectives pursued. The draft law on existing specific registers, i.e. transplantation, oncological diseases, etc., which fulfil the purpose laid down by law and for which, despite certain reservations, the necessity to identify the subject, the data, in his personal interest, can be accepted, assigns another general register of all medical services provided to all citizens, i.e. the National Register of Payment Services, the National Diabetological Register and the National Register of Intensive Care. But is it really necessary to maintain a non-anonymized national register of reproductive health, for example? In view of the scope of these registers, it is appropriate to assess the objectives of their introduction by the necessity to collect and process personal data if the objectives could also be met by other means. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Please take the next step, and that is what Mr Vyzula has done. Mr. Svoboda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, after an excited debate on the security of our state, to address the health issue in our state. The amendment to the law that we are discussing here should certainly help, because if we are not healthy, we will not discuss the security of the state, nor will we discuss other issues. The health is absolutely essential. What kind of health care do we want? I think we can all agree on whether it's the right, the left, whoever it is upstairs, downstairs, we can all agree that we want solidarity and we want modern health. Such as to match current technical and human possibilities, since we have always had such health care. But health care or health care is getting more expensive. What used to cost - for example, the MRI that used to cost, say, ten, fifteen years ago, 30 million, is now worth 50 million. I work in oncology. Ten years ago, a linear radiation accelerator cost 60 million, and today it's perfectly normal that it costs 100 million. And we have to take the money somewhere. We have to find it somewhere. Probably none of the paramedics, and I don't think a lot of you enjoy talking about corruption, clientelism, black holes. Unfortunately, the current state of affairs is recording this, and therefore this amendment, which should help from these vices. I would like to point out what will happen if we did not adopt this law. For example, there will be no independent control over public finances. That's what we'd like not to create opportunities for corruption, black holes. It often happens that citizens use and take care of different providers. And we are currently unable to determine whether this care is being abused. For the next one. It will not be completed, as has been said here, such a reboot DRG - Diagnoses Related Groups. This is basically a system for adequate remuneration for everyone equally, for everyone based on what he really did, but so that, for example, gallbladder operations are evaluated by funds as well in a hospital in Karlovy Vary or at the Faculty Hospital in Motol. And without this, without the information that we could get, which we need, we can't do that. [[15.40 hours]] There's talk of a registry where there's sensitive data. Yes, there are sensitive data, there are birth numbers. But let us be aware that the National Health Information System is not something new here, which is also often said to be something that is now being introduced. The system has been here since 1976 and, for example, in oncology since 1977, we have a National Cancer Register, a registry where there are birth numbers, where there are information about other diagnoses, where there are sensitive data, and the registry is envious of the whole world. No one else in the world has a register like this. These are mostly regional registers, which are then extrapolated to countries such as France, Italy or Germany, but they don't have the register we have. And I ask - has this data ever been misused? There's a rumor that the data should be anonymous. She's analyzing the data anonymously. It won't be at all easy to get to them, just as it wasn't easy to get to them in the past. There is talk that the neighbor will be able to look at the neighbor's data on the Internet as she is, and she will be able to evaluate it accordingly. That's total nonsense. There's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, and there's no way. What happens if we don't accept this novel? It will not be possible to introduce a full quality control system for health care. Health care related to rehospitalization, rehabilitation and other quality parameters that we also need. Why? Because we want quality health care. And in order to have that quality health care, we need to have the same parameters that we will assess across health care. If we do not adopt this law, it will not be possible to introduce a so-called system of optimization of the network of providers, which means - that is what is said a lot, whether there is a need for a hospital in one region or not, whether there is a need for a separation of gynaecological every ten kilometers, or whether there is another care that is unnecessarily used in that area. What else, and what is very striking, is that we do not actually know what kind of doctors or medical staff are - at what stage of education they occur. We need to know the number and capacity of professional personnel. We won't be able to predict the future. We now know that we have problems with the lack of pediatricians, we have a lack of practices, but wonder to the world, we do not know how many people we currently have in the educational process of pediatricians or practices. The state deserves to know that. We won't be able to do, like, a psychiatric reform, the reform that everyone is calling for, which is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, we would also suspend the system of electronicisation and digitization of health care. That's what we've been talking about lately, about not just eHealth, but part of eHealth, which is an electronic recipe that should help people. Last but not least, the whole system in the health sector has become increasingly burdensome from the point of view of bureaucracy administration. Our doctors and sisters spend much more time filling out papers than they do in patients. And if we don't get through this novel, they're gonna keep doing it, and they're really gonna thank us. And they will not only thank them because, of course, it bothers them and the bureaucracy has grown enormously over the last ten years. By various decrees and guidelines, work is shifted from patient to paper. I think we should finally put an end to this, we should end this system of exponential growth of administration. Finally, when we talk about data security, yes, of course, nothing is 100%, but the NHIS itself works. It's been working for years, and it's never been used. If analyses are made and requests for analysis from these registers are made, then, of course, under certain rules that will have to be followed. The analysis will be anonymous. Novela's talking about it. It won't be possible for a neighbor to look at the health data of his neighbors. All of this will lead to the fact that we may be able to make health care more effective and better, not only on the personnel side, which we really need, but also on the financial side. Therefore, I would like - and I would ask you to support the approval of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Svoboda's microphone, please. Mr. Holeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the law before us today is a law that is really very important. It's important for many reasons. I would argue with my previous speaker, through you, with Professor Vyzula. It doesn't matter if this law treats a hole, that someone has been examined for one diagnosis twice and it cost the insurance company more money. Those aren't crucial leaks. The important thing about this law is that it should allow us to find out the results of our medical care. We're always talking about black holes in health care, we're talking about something more expensive somewhere, something cheaper somewhere, but we're not even interested in the link between the price and the result of what the benefit of our entire work is. And if we don't process these data, we can never talk about whether or not health care is effective, whether or not it has any reserves in it, and if there's anything to change about it. Of course, the effect of treatment is absolutely essential, it means shortening the hospitalization period, it means shortening the rehabilitation period, it means shortening the incapacity period, it also means the loss of people who are transferred to disability pension, and we need to know that. [[15.50 hours]] We need to know where they are being treated, so that we also know how to treat those medical devices. This thing is known and functional in the world. I am also firmly convinced, and I say this repeatedly, that the information about the health facility that I am going to get into, the results of the treatment success, is public information that every patient has the right to know what the therapeutic effect of the hospital is. Of course, such registers exist in the United States. They have a slightly different impact, because depending on how successful the hospital is, how well it treats, the health care is standing with it. There he is, for example. Very interesting that Canadian drivers, which is such a special profession - they go all over Canada and go 48 hours there, then sleep somewhere and once again, they have a high frequency of cardiac events, because it's all stressful and yet it's a sedentary profession - they have insurance, which is the benefit of their trade unionists, specific insurance that they can order to any hospital throughout the United States, if necessary, no matter what the price there is. And, of course, they're using it. It's such a benefit that actually railroaders don't have any trade union problems, because this thing is so crucial that it's satisfied. And that's something we should know. As a right-wing politician, I believe that, in its impact, this information will have and will have to have some price impact, whether in the form that prices will differentiate the insurance undertaking or in the form that there will be differentiated additional insurance on it - these are things that are open. But that is the main and fundamental reason why we must have this information. We've got him, as Mr. profesor. Vyzula said, I've worked with this my whole life, we've got him in oncology, where we really know all this, we've got the information. Each year we had to show what the effectiveness of our treatment is, the operating disciplines must show each year the percentage of deoperative survivors, healed or transferred to long-term treatment. But why do I have to have information about who it was that it was Mr. Vonásek of the Upper Lower? The crucial information you need to know about the patient is how old he is, what his gender is, maybe what he's doing, these are the things that might fall into it, but otherwise we're wondering what diagnosis it was besides how she was treated and what the effect of the treatment was. That's what I think is a thing that we still haven't gotten a good enough answer to, that we're good at, or a substantial birth number. I can imagine sending information to me as a hospital under some code number so that it will be at any time in the case of a necessary and specific analysis tied up to a person, and those needs will certainly be very few to make it traceable, and that it may not be a number or information that is sent to the center that will work with it. The leaks of information are huge, and they can barely be resisted. Lately known story, or known story... A story that exists that, in a serious illness of someone who is significant or very medially interesting, the hospital has no other solution than that the patient is lying there under another name, a different birth number and all his findings are reported to another birth number, because, of course, in the diagnosis, any laboratory finding tells of what the disease looks like, what the prognosis is, and what can be expected to be the development of the disease, and it's medially very interesting. I'm sure I'm not concerned that anyone would provide information on a neighbor who had had an abortion, but I think it's very interesting to know that someone who is my political or economically crucial competitor has, as it were, calculated at the top, how long it will compete with me. At that point, I'm afraid hacking the data is no problem. And it bothers me that until today, I don't know exactly how this sort of thing will be secured, first of all. Secondly, I don't know if it's absolutely necessary for the birth number to be on it, whether it's not just an indication of age, gender, and perhaps even the profession or something else that might be defined, and those data would only be collected under some order code or would be coming and only the hospital that supplied it, which has an ex principle, would be able to decode who it is sometimes. It would take two steps. And, of course, what bothers me is that we're saying to each other in general: it's secured, we've secured it, it won't escape anywhere, the officials won't tell anyone - but I don't know how. I haven't found a system yet that can guarantee this. I haven't found a clerk yet, whether he's a statistician or just a writer who can resist what Count Monte Christo said - it's not a question of whether he'll do it, it's just a question of how much you invest in it, then he'll do it. That is why I think that distinguishing this area from someone's ability to access our data is simply inconclusive. I think that since we're about to enter it, we should know perfectly clearly why we're doing this and what it's gonna do. And I say again, the things we need to get out of this are crucial, and I will vote with all hands to get this information, but I want to know that there is no other option than the possibility of a birth number with which I will count these figures that there is no other option. If I am convinced by those who prepare it when they show me the steps it will be secured, if they show me why it is not possible without him, why the simplified information about age, gender and some anamnestic data is not enough, it doesn't matter what could be done there, and if I am not convinced of it, I will have a problem voting for such a thing because it limits, restricts completely general fundamental and fundamental, the Constitution guaranteed the right to the protection of personal data. For all these reasons, I think I can suggest that we apply Paragraph 93 (2) of the EC Treaty. 2 and the Chamber of Deputies again sent these points to the guarantee committee to discuss them in order to get an answer, a detailed answer, and then they all voted with a clear conscience that we are not doing something contrary to the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u7	Thank you, Member, and please to Mr Holeček's microphone, Mr Hovorka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u8	Madam President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I always have a problem supporting an amendment to the law which introduces new registers, because I always have doubts about the scope and purpose of the data collected. Although in the explanatory memorandum, the petitioner assures the usefulness of medical registers and the security against misuse of data that they contain, the complete certainty does not come into me. The Ministry of Health, aware of the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2012 on the abolition of the National Register of Health Workers due to unauthorised interference in the privacy of health professionals, comes with a proposal to reduce the data monitored and determine the scope of public data and their publication. It sets out in detail the list of entities that will have access to the records in the register, as well as the list of entities that will report the data to the register. [[16.00 hours]] I am fully aware that in the Czech Republic we do not yet have a uniform register of health professionals eligible for a medical profession. The Ministry of Health is calling for her, too. for cooperation with universities, educational institutions, chambers and professional companies. He wants to have an overview of the number of staff with professional, specialised and special competence who pursue a health profession in our territory. The register of workers is supposed to be designed in such a way as to clearly protect the data kept on health workers. It is designed as a reference agenda system with limited access of individual entities authorised to consult this registry on the basis of the issue of certificates with access passwords. The history of the records made, changes to existing records, access to the register, etc. will be monitored. As Chairman of the Privacy Sub-Committee, I am calling for the reform of the National Health Information System to undergo a deeper professional opponent, particularly in relation to privacy and personal data protection, to describe the flow of this data, to adjust the deadlines for the anonymity of the data in registers and to clarify the description of the individual registers and their purposes. For example, in the case of EET IT systems, we have touched on the certificates and passwords that can be considered safe at present within the second-to-last subcommittee. In an excited time, when sensitive information about classified actions is also leaking from the Government Security Council, at a time when the Prime Minister's e-mails roam the Internet's water, I do not believe in the confidentiality of medical personnel' data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u9	Thank you and please to Mr. Hovorka's microphone. Mr Brázdil will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to explain a few more information because some press conferences have been held at the Ministry and so on and some of the claims that I have made here have been questioned. I would like to clarify the issue of the amendment to the Health Services Act and the emergence of the National Health Information System on several issues. It is necessary to separate the sense of NHIS, the National Health Information System. The existence of existing, most useful registers set long before this crazy idea. These registers are set by the rules. No one is questioning their existence. However, it is not possible to compare individual existing registers, which are mostly useful. A new register of health workers can also be useful. Existing registers have long been in place, have practical significance, but also a sophisticated control system and are separate partial agendas. But the emerging register of paid care is completely different. It is a new, duplicate agenda for what health insurance companies are already leading. And NHIS, it's basically a register of registers. Sort of like a central register where data from all registers and from all diagnoses of social and working history will gather in one place. We can think of it as tubes connected to individual registers, from which the UHIS will vacuum everything it needs at will. This only came into law in 2011 for Minister Heger, but only as an instrument of statistics. It never worked, now it's supposed to work. And it is this connection of all registers that is very dangerous. Moreover, NHIS is not supposed to function as a normal public administration register. The administration of agendas and data management is not separated. This is not possible in other registers of public administration. There is no way that the same official can access all the data and all the agendas. The system of data protection is not described, the technical status of the operator is not clear, it is not clear what the resulting database will look like, and under this law the IHIS can create according to its favour any database over which Parliament will have no control over its particular form. The Office for Personal Data Protection has clearly said: we are not a legislative office, but a supervisory office. We've got one and a half lawyers, we haven't even gotten a valid intent on the law. What was in 2001 was very risky. We haven't been contacted or informed. Now the lawmakers have communicated with us, and they have incorporated a number of comments into the explanatory report. If there is a doubt as to the validity of the data collection, the Office shall intervene and stop the data collection. However, in the same letter requested by my colleague, which I was aware of, it is stated that the ÚZIS promised that a precise NHIS law will be drawn up within two years, to which all important players, including health insurance companies, will be invited. I ask if this is the intention and it is known that this law is not perfect, why such a semi-finished product is approved and why it is to be waited two years before a kind of NZIS implementing law is prepared. Everyone has the Constitution's guaranteed right, i.e. the constitutional right to privacy. And this is clearly described in the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, which I read last time here in the Chamber, so that you all have it at your disposal. The next question is the adequacy of the purpose of the collected data, where there is a clear contradiction with the European directive. Nothing that says in the explanatory memorandum that NHIS will allow is true. See the opinion of health insurance companies. What is to be obtained is not obtained from the collected data. No data need to be collected with unique identifier, birth number, respectively. the insured person's number. This is probably nowhere in the world to associate such sensitive data with a unique identifier. The data must be anonymous. And anonymity is possible. This was confirmed by people from the National Reference Center. The Director of the UHIS and the Ministry of Health claim that the birth number is necessary to trace the patient's movements along the system and visit various hospitals and doctors. But this can already be done and is used for this so-called. The patient's trajectory, but there's no birth number used here either. In addition, it is necessary to draw attention to the difference that I have mentioned here, and that is the difference between the authorisation of the HIS in the current law, which has been in force since 2011. The newly proposed text sets out a very wide range of processed data from all those paid from health taxes. Therefore, the obligation to transmit these data is also extended as well. The purpose has been defined for statistical purposes, this remains the same, but in addition it is intended to provide data and statistical information to the extent specified by this or other legislation, including the provision of information for international institutions. This extension of purpose means the creation of a central database. It is a general agreement with the creation of a central repository. Unique identifiers of the person are given in § 70 para. 2. It is expressly stated that they are transmitted without his consent. The scope of the data transmitted from his medical documentation is given by § 70 para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. And here I would like to respond to a press conference at the Department of Health, where it was said that no data from the diagnosis would be passed on. The section clearly talks about what's being passed on to the register. That it's patient-related data, sent by the provider. It's written right there - I'm not quoting the relevant paragraph for reasons of saving time. It is clear from this that a complete diagnosis is being passed, a social history, a job classification, etc. is being passed on. etc. So you need to talk exactly what's going to be passed on. So all medical devices will be connected to this NHIS and they will transmit information. Another important thing is to say some information for the purpose of proportionality of the purpose of the law. In the explanatory memorandum, this law relies on some things that will be better resolved by this law. For example, the benefits to the quality of health care are highlighted. The fully representative data of health insurance companies will allow the introduction of so-called Health care quality identifiers and their reference evaluation in all segments of the system. On this point, I would like to state that the draft data structure contains only data on the care provided and its reimbursement. Neither the reasons for providing care nor its outputs are included. Therefore, practically no quality indicators can be evaluated. Personal data are not necessary to evaluate quality indicators, only data on the demographic classification of the patient: age, gender, region, threatening factors, etc. [[16.10 hours]] Secondly, the availability of healthcare. Assessment of the availability of care requires an extensive analysis of data, which is currently not possible for all segments of care. The National Health Services Register will fundamentally change this situation. It will be possible to evaluate the availability of care from a geographical point of view as well as from different social and demographic groups. So much for a reason. What's the reality? The design of the data structure contains only data on the care provided and its reimbursement. This does not include data on the availability of health services, local and temporal, so availability cannot be evaluated. Personal data are not necessary to evaluate the quality indicator, only data on the demographic classification of the patient, age, gender, region, threatening factors etc. Third, cause, safety, health care. The introduction of the quality indicator also entails quantification of the care safety indicator. The proposed adjustment will allow quantitative evaluation of significant adverse events, especially in the acute and subsequent bed care system. So much for a reason. The fact is that the design of the data structure contains only data on the care provided, its reimbursement, no data on adverse effects or complications are included. Security cannot therefore be evaluated. On the contrary, the intention could be fulfilled if the necessary data were to be collected in a concrete manner, but at the same time it would be duplicated with the activities of both other collections of UHIS and with the obligation to notify the State Institute for Drug Control. Fourth reason. Reliable system of control, monitoring quality and availability of care. The national register of paid health services, together with established health registers, will enable the analysis and assessment of short- and long-term indicators of care results, identify and focus on weaknesses in the system. The fact is that the design of the data structure contains only data on the care provided, its reimbursement, not part of the data on availability of local and temporal, therefore cannot be evaluated. Personal data are not necessary to evaluate the quality indicator, only data on the demographic classification of the patient, age, gender, region, threatening factors etc. Possibility to optimize treatment for various social and demographic groups. The flat analysis of data on health service providers, the volume and structure of their care will enable them to optimize the density and availability of selected services for different population groups, e.g. for seniors, citizens with certain disabilities or pregnant women. But even in this case, availability cannot be evaluated. Optimization of the network of healthcare providers. Distribution of healthcare adequately prepared, equipped and also situated health facilities requires not only monitoring of the volume of care, but also analysis of the sleeping areas, especially in bed facilities. The proposed amendment of the National Health Information System will allow this through the use of comprehensively representative data. It will also be possible to monitor the migration of patients after treatment. The proposed modification is only applicable by connecting the National Register of Health Services Providers, the National Register of Health Workers and the National Register of Health Services. However, it is not necessary to use the personal data of insured persons to meet the objective. In this context, it is necessary to mention the duplication of the collection of data on health service providers - data collection in the National Health Services Register according to § 77a letter. (g) it is redundant if the same data are collected for the National Register of Health Service Providers. The seventh reason. Planning financial and personnel resources to ensure adequate medical care. One of the basic objectives of the proposed solution is to ensure the availability of data for the optimisation of the payment system and for planning the system's personnel capacity. In particular, the National Health Services Register and the National Health Workers Register will serve for this. The proposed modification, unfortunately, is only applicable when connecting the National Register of Health Services Providers, the National Register of Health Workers and the National Register of Covered Health Services. In order to meet the objective, it is not necessary to use the personal data of insured persons. The availability of data on the network of healthcare providers and on health care itself. The proposed regulation will ultimately increase the awareness of citizens and patients about the availability of treatment in their surroundings, in the medium term also awareness of the quality and results of care. The fact is that the proposed regulation is only possible when linking the National Register of Health Services Providers, the National Register of Health Workers, the National Register of Covered Health Services, but it is not necessary to use the personal data of insured persons to meet the objective. From what I have said, it must be noted that the proposed amendment to this law will not stand up in the proportionality test from the point of view of European law, because it fails in several aspects. By its nature, the proposed legislation representing an extremely broad collection of sensitive data is not necessary, reasonable or effective. Draft amendment of the law, respectively. within the scope defined by the scope of data collection, it does not allow or fulfil all the objectives set out by the petitioner in the explanatory memorandum. On the other hand, in the context of the above conclusions on individual points, when using existing legislation and in the protection of personal data, when using anonymized data, the responsible definition of the structure of the required data gives the possibility to achieve the desired purpose. On this issue, the Sub-Committee on the Economics in Health, Health Insurance and Drug Policy held a seminar last Tuesday, unfortunately the Director of the Office for Health Information and Statistics did not attend this seminar as the main promoter of this law or any representative from the Ministry of Health who would defend the draft of this law at this seminar. I am here at the first hearing, during the first part of the discussion of this law raised some questions, I have not yet received an answer to them, so please ask the Minister to answer these questions. I can repeat them just in case. Minister, I would like to ask for an explanation as to why all sensitive data are needed, e.g. about mental problems, about used psychopharmaceuticals, urological, sexual problems, abortions, simply about everything recorded in the medical documentation, including residence and birth number, send to one place and how these data will help to address quality, availability, safety, optimization of care and optimization of the network of providers, as stated in the explanatory report. Where the law provides for the status of the technical operator of the system and its employees and the associated protection of sensitive data. How individual sensitive data will be particularly legally protected from abuse. How will persons who will allow access to the register have a defined obligation to assess proportionality, i.e. the adequacy of the provision of personal data to others in relation to the information self-determination of persons. How people-patients will have access to all their personal data to be processed under the law without their consent. Why doesn't the health information system follow the same strict rules as other basic registers as public administrations. Why existing data, existing databases from health insurance companies, are not used to manage the economy. Why all information on the health, social and working history must be linked to the birth numbers and not to any other anonymous identifier for the new DRG system. Why it is now necessary to quickly, promptly approve this House press, connect all databases, run these agendas here, and only then within two years, according to the information of the Office for Personal Data Protection, prepare a quality law on NZIS. Do you not think that in the case of the National Health Information System, the exact same regime as for other registers under the Basic Registry Act must be separated from the agenda and data management and that it cannot be concentrated in the hands of one person? The Basic Registers Act specifies the definitions of the registry, the scope of the data collected, the links between the agendas, the data access log, the agenda administrator and among others. and keeping records of events related to the operation of health registers. It must be obvious who ever did what and for what purpose in the data system. Unfortunately, this is completely missing in the Houses of the Press and the reference to the explanatory report is not enough. Let me ask you one more question. You may, Minister, inform the Chamber of Deputies how many people, employees of the Office for Health Information and Statistics are working at the same time, or in what functions, in the private company IBA, s.r.o., which is among others. deals with the pharmaco-economic evaluation of certain medicines, e.g. significant innovative medicinal products? [[16.20 hours]] That is what I think is also important information that Members should know. If the employees of the Office for Health Information and Statistics are not under the Civil Service Act, and if there are also people working among them who are also executives in a private company, they are even majority owners, because 7 percent of Masaryk University in this company is required to collect and evaluate such sensitive data. That's what I think is very important for you to explain here. When someone at the Ministry of Health is doing a press conference again, let them read Section 70 para. The competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission of the reasons for the refusal of entry into force of this Regulation. Without the consent of the data subject, i.e. without the consent of the patient, unless otherwise specified, let everyone know exactly that this is all information that is transmitted by the patient - doctor - in a confidential relationship by the physician. All these data are to end in the central system. I say again that in a detailed debate, I will prepare a motion to reject this law, and you yourself evaluate your responsibility to approve such a semi-finished act where data protection is not ensured, it is not clear how data protection will be dealt with, it is not clear the technical status of the operator and what the final database will look like. You will be responsible if this law passes if some information is leaked. And believe that this will be very sensitive and very interesting information for pharmaceutical companies, commercial insurance companies and others. I wanted to tell you so much, and now, of course, it's up to you to decide. I hope that the Minister will explain my questions, which I have raised here for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u11	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Vyzula, Mr Antonín will prepare, then the Prime Minister's priority right and then Mr Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u12	Thank you, Madam President. It would've been a long time. I was wondering whether to get off or not. All right. Those who disagree, go to your constituents and tell them: We do not want transparent health care! We don't want effective health care to save your life! We're happy with the chaotic health care we have here! [[Very emotional.]] And we don't want modern health care. Not at all! Go tell them. We have 50,000 doctors, 100,000 nurses, maybe a little more. They're gonna love you if you don't accept this bill because they have a crazy lot of administrative work and by connecting all the systems, they're gonna have to fill out about one fifth of what they have to do now. But please go tell them! They're gonna love you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u13	Thank you. I beg another de facto Mr Antonín. Mr Svoboda will be prepared, all factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u14	You know, I'm wondering what this attack against this law is all about. Where does that come from? Because this law clearly wants to help our health care. People who work with registers that have been for decades, oncological, here somebody named why reproductive medicine. I'm obstetrics and obstetrics and reproductive is one of the oldest registers, and he's the only reason we have the level of our obstetrics and the level of our neonatology where it is. Please note that by learning to work with the system, you can increase its level and quality. And if you don't want it, why don't you want it? I really need to think about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u15	Thank you. I would like to make a factual comment by Mr Svoboda and following him by Mr Hovorka. Mr. Secretary, hold on, these are factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u16	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry that I must fundamentally disagree with my two previous speakers. I don't want to use any emotional voice or screaming. My question is simple. I fully support having this information. I'll vote for it. I'm asking, why does it have to be linked to the patient's birth number? No one's giving me an answer to that question. I'm fully in favour of it. What my colleague Antonín says, through you, I am also an obstetrician, I know how important it is. But my question is the only one. Why does the data have to be used with the header of the birth number? I have no other question. And there was no response to that, not even an emotional expression.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u17	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Hovorka, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u18	Thank you. I would like to say that in order for us to have good health care, we do not need to collect very sensitive data associated with the birth number. This will not provide us with better health care. I'm bohužel so. That's not true. Whoever's saying this is basically not telling the truth. The quality of health care depends on completely different parameters, and in order to have information, we do not need a connection with the birth number. Give an example of where in other countries such sensitive data are associated with an individual identifier. You can say that other countries don't have a birth number. But that is not the problem of the Czech Republic, it is the problem of who creates this law and who wants to make work easier and wants to collect everything with a birth number. But unfortunately, from a constitutional point of view, this is not possible in terms of proportionality. It is not that I prevent the use of registers that exist, have a purpose and are proven, but it is that I do not want a database to be created here, which will centralize all information in one place and connect it with the birth number. And we don't even know what the final database will look like, the less the data will be provided. I'm waiting for answers to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u19	Thank you. With the de facto Member, Mr Vyzula. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Another keg, then. Why do we need a birth number? We collect epidemiological data on, for example, how many breast cancer patients we have. If we don't have a birth number, we won't know how many breast cancers we have. Come in. We're getting data on when the disease originated, under which circumstances it originated. You're talking about a social history. If it's a nullipara, it's not a nullipara. When the patient had menses, she didn't have menses. These are all data that, as far as we know, as we already know them, are the basis for building a health system to treat breast cancer. [[Dissenting voices in the right side of the hall.]] If we don't have this data associated with the birth number, then we're just gonna play at the level of impressionology. And there are many examples. It may not just be cancer, but it could be a heart attack. If we're going to have a heart attack for a certain period, what kind of treatment he's had, what kind of work he's doing, all of which can be identified by risk factors that can help in the next course, in another system of people's health care. We just can't find out without it. And the state cannot manage and propose measures to reduce these diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u21	Thank you. And now, please, with the de facto Mr Liberty, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u22	Thank you again for the floor. I've been working my whole life with a cancer registry. I was there when he was developing for gynecological oncology, and I can safely say that all the figures about how many cancers we have that localization, we know and we have. We meet each year as centers of clinical oncology and gynecology and tell each other the results, present them in a structured form. There's never a birth number, but we know exactly how many of us treated which cancer, with what effect and success, how old those women were, what their social history was. But we don't have a birth number anywhere. And we've never missed it before. I don't think we're gonna know the number of mamma tumors if we don't have the birth numbers for the diagnoses, is an indication that doesn't really work in that practice. And I'm saying again that there are a number of countries that can't even get any such patient registration through some general national identifier, and yet these things work there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u23	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just have to say, I don't always agree with my colleague Hovorka, but in this 100%. I really believe that the Minister should withdraw this proposal. I will not support him, I will even vote against this proposal. I think that this law, or this amendment, is not designed to guarantee the inexorability of these very, very personal and sensitive data. And my colleague Vyzula. Where will you stop? You really want this coalition to spend enormous energy on data collection, trying to get citizens under control, whether it's entrepreneurs through electronic sales records, selectively selected citizens based on very questionable criteria for property returns, etc. etc. I warn you, you first may be the victim of these practices. And really, if the state needs this data, it is not such a problem today to assign anonymous numbers to all and collect those data so that it is safe and unidentifiable with specific persons. At a time when one of the members of the government is making files on its political competitors, coalition partners, etc., I believe that vigilance is very appropriate. And here's the argument that it will serve... Of course, every statistic, data, is better to decide. But for that, you don't really need the birth numbers and other details that specifically identify it with a particular person. I am actually calling on the Minister to withdraw this bill, to come forward with it in two years, when the system is made so that the data is anonymous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u25	Thank you. I have three more factual points here. With the first to the microphone of Mr Hovorka, Mr Běhounek and Mr Antonín will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u26	Yes. I just want to make sure everything's collected. Thus, for the processing of personal data in the National Health Information System, where the data subject is a patient, the data necessary for identification shall be collected first, the insured person's number, if assigned, or the birth number, if this number is not the insured person's number, or the date of birth, if the birth number is not assigned, the name of the municipality and, where appropriate, the name of the town or district, the address of the place of permanent residence, and, in the case of foreigners, the address of the place of residence and nationality. Secondly, data relating to its medical condition in relation to the disease and its treatment, in particular sociodemographic and diagnostic, personal, family and occupational history of the patient related to the disease, including an assessment of his current state of health, data on the health services provided to the patient, information on the profession or employment, and, where appropriate, on the performance of the service, necessary for the assessment of the patient's health status. Third, the identification details of the provider who provided the health services, including the department and workplace. Fourthly, the identification details of the last employer of the patient in whom the occupational disease was established have been last worked under the conditions under which the occupational disease occurs... Then it is clear which data are collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u27	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Běhounek's microphone, Mr Antonín will be prepared and Mr Štětina after. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u28	Madam President, colleagues, members of the government, good afternoon. I'll ask you one question. What is health insurance based on? Anonymous data? Do your medical data from the hospitals circulate in our area? Then take a picture of yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u29	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Antonín's microphone, Mr Štětina will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u30	Actually, I don't have anything else to say because I wanted to say exactly what my colleague Běhounek said. Your data is in every hospital. It digitizes them and gives them to every insurance company. And now you're just defending the insurance companies to basically add together and turn it into one of the statistics. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u31	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mr. Mr. Štětina. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u32	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous speakers, I would like to ask the Minister directly not to withdraw this law. Because this law is necessary. And I don't like the fact that every time we talk about any law, conservatism is about keeping our birth numbers a secret. I mean, everybody knows the maths about us. I don't think anyone's gonna care if I have a hernia surgery in two weeks that someone's gonna find out my birth number. He's just got it a long time ago. So I don't think such petty things as the birth number are the reason we don't have this law that's really needed. That's just a good point. I could talk and follow up on my previous speakers, but I won't do it yet. But I do not rule out the fact that I may speak in the same tone as profesor Vyzula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u33	Thank you. And now, please, with Mrs Pecková, in fact, Mr Hovorka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u34	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say, as a doctor to one of the previous speakers through Madam President, that hospital reports are actually circulating. In fact, the diagnosis that one day appears on the final discharge report is almost, as much as I respect my colleagues, a blunt copy, so that once you have a so-called diagnosis sewn on, it is very difficult to get rid of it. Otherwise, I'd like to say something that maybe didn't come out or something. You know, the medical secret wasn't here to turn doctors into mysterious magicians who are gifted with supernatural powers and have mysterious information. It's always been here to protect a patient. Each of us doctors besides evidence-based medicine needs one more category without which we cannot treat, which is needed by both the doctor and the patient. And that's trust, please. The patient's confidence that what he may have been determined to do for a long time - trusting you with his difficulties - will remain with you in good hands that he will not get where he should not go. And I'm not questioning the fact that society needs certain information. But I mean, of course he does. Health insurance companies have the necessary data, just as doctors are obliged to report certain types of diseases. So there's no need to worry that we're all gonna get sick with an infectious disease just because it's hidden and it won't tell anyone. So I would also appeal not to betray the patient's trust, because then maybe we'll actually save the cost, because if patients lose their trust in their doctor, they just don't come. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u35	Thank you. Please refer to Mr Hovork's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my fellow rapporteur. What he said here is true. The information is in health insurance companies and already today the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance can ask for it and also says about it. According to the law, I suspect 280 can get that information. And the reason why a new database must be built in addition to what already exists in health insurance companies that already have a number of those data. VZP has been connected to the basic registers since 2014. VZP - this is 6 million citizens and all types of care providers with all the medical performance that can be paid out of insurance. New management system with agendas conducted in accordance with Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration, the Ministry of Health can start testing and operating now. The rights and obligations relating to the creation, use, operation and development of newly involved information systems managed by the Ministry and the bright tomorrow can begin shall be laid down. But there is no need to build a whole new database and connect all data in one place from all the diagnoses of all patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u37	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Opálka, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I would like to respond to what my colleague Hovorka said. You know, he'd be an easier procedure. Only to gain political approval - to make one health insurance company work, and then it would have all the data as planned. But now I don't know if that would come across the exact same problem that's being discussed. Because the opponent has no purpose at all, but there's no point at all, because that one insurance company would be managing exactly what the new registry is going to be, and that wouldn't bother us. Then why does it bother us with this material? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u39	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Brázdil's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, presently some, perhaps future patients, I would like to touch such an area. Maybe you've all heard the names of a quickie, an ambulance, an emergency, an emergency, a runway, a flight, something like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u41	Ambassador, I'm so sorry, but I'm gonna ask the right side not to yell at each other because it's really disturbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u42	These are all terms relating to pre-hospital emergency care. And over the course of maybe 30 years, the ambulance went through some development, since it was organized so that the doctor drove out of the window, ran out of the ARO window and ran to the ambulance, then it went through the county ambulances, some of them went to the relief centers - that wasn't bad, it was managed by the Ministry, and it was well managed by me. Then, of course, the rescue service became regional. At present we have here, imagine 14 sandboxes, 14 regional health services that go according to their founder, according to their breadmaker. Who is he? The county. One of them is therefore urban - Prague. And these medical emergency services are doing everything the same, and we're paying ourselves a health tax and we want insurance, sorry, we want health care, pre-hospital care exactly the same, and we want it in a mass accident, we just want it anywhere, we just want quality pre-hospital emergency care. But there are not only the 14 original rescue services that provide this, but they don't even agree to investigate the dead. I have four amendments prepared here. One of them concerns the examination of the dead. Please, there's no one here to say that the rescue service is being set up to examine the dead. One day, when you have a medical problem or your child or your family, what do you want? So that the doctor would be there as soon as possible. Time plays a big role. Time just in four to six minutes, if you're not, you're dying or you have a clinical death and you go biological. Time plays a big role. But when rescue services and doctors are sent to investigate the dead twenty-thirty minutes away from their exit post, I don't think the ambulance will get to you well. And watch out, the county's got a different way of doing it. Here's the coroner. Nobody knows what it is. It's kind of a little guy who, for a fee, goes somewhere for the county's money, and then makes a statement about the dead guy. Then we've got somewhere in the hospital, he's leaving, even the doctor's driving off some sort of ambulance vehicle, or God knows what kind of place he's gonna do an examination. Then, of course, there's the rescue crew, quick medical - there's the doctor, and he's doing it, too, or Rendez-Vous car. Well, it's just wrong. And I, my colleague Němečka, have received a letter recently, or this subject has been raised, it is raised by the Czech Medical Chamber, it is a topic raised by paramedics, doctors, not in the leading positions of course, they will oppose it, but I got a letter that everything is great, that it all works out, that it's great, that we're gonna let it go, because there's nothing better. Well, it's better. It's better like firemen and cops to be united so that it doesn't go to the regions, so that it's the same meter for everyone, whether I'm in Aš or Olomouc. That is why I want to conclude by proposing amendments, which I will read in a detailed debate. Among other things, it is the examination of the deceased's body at a time when a practice or God knows who can't come to it, it simply doesn't belong to an ambulance. I hope there's no one here to argue with me. It doesn't belong to the rescue service to examine the bodies of the deceased, it belongs to the rescue. [[Emphasis.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u43	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with the de facto Mr. Běhounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u44	Once again, Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to say that matters which have nothing to do with the functioning of the medical rescue service are being brought here. Let us be clear about how the law is, how the examination was determined, who was designated and what the possibilities of the region are in their hands. So please let everyone know that we're dealing with how we're doing right now. It concerns first aid medical services or the LPS and other matters today. And I would very much like my colleague Brázdil to propose a change to the law, not simply to interfere with the competences of the regions that are legally designated for them, and to take care of the ambulance. If she thinks she should join together, of course, so let her cost 30 billion, which they put into that region, which they regularly put into it, and we are, of course, able to talk about it in some way afterwards. Otherwise, yesterday, I dealt with all the head of emergency services, all the captains, and I warn you that the opinion, when this House was passed four years ago, was passed by the Health Service Act, and it works, and it's not true that it doesn't work and that it doesn't work out, it dismantles again, that's what we guys are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u45	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. And the Minister has applied for the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess and may have been naive as repeatedly in my political experience as Minister of Health, that this law will receive support across the spectrum. Even the Committee on Health suggested that everyone who is concerned with changes in health care, who talks about being in favour of health transparency, would support this law. However, the opposition that raised this law, and that - I would almost say that some colleagues here have declared a crusade to this proposal, convinces me that this law may have a deeper meaning than I thought, because the proposal is very annoying to somebody. Some people are very upset that health care will show that it will be clear what the patient's passage through the system is, how we are, how the financial flows are going. And someone's really upset about that. I have to say that the logic that health insurance companies, seven health insurance companies, and I'm not a critic of the pluralistic health insurance system, I think that within the system they're trying to do good work, they have access to information about the patient's movements by the system, but we're not giving them to the state, because if we give it to the state, we're putting privacy, freedom at risk, who knows what else, and we're gonna do great damage. I must say, I am glad for what Mr Hovorka has said here through Madam President, that even the NRC people have said that the system is wrong. Well, at least I know where it's coming from, where at least one source is coming from, because the National Reference System was a system that's been developing the DRG system for ten or more years. The DRG system that is in ruins today, which we have to rebuild here, and to build it, we need this law. And, coincidentally, some of the people who sat in the supervisory bodies of the National Reference Centre adjusted the setting of those values, both for what was paid for and by coincidence for the providers carried out the advisory work that they had advised them to optimize and how to obtain funding from the insurance system. So I understand that they don't want to make things right here, that they're gonna do everything they can to keep it here, that they're gonna release the fog and that they're gonna use someone who doesn't really know what's going on here, and they're gonna use a whole other argument. So let me, and I'm sorry for the emotions I've just expressed, but I think they're appropriate, because now it's decided whether or not we're gonna put that spotlight on the health system, whether or not we're gonna do this right. And I really consider other things to be proxy. Let me answer some of the questions that have been raised here, even to those who criticize them, we have answered them several times, and they do the same without taking any explanation. It makes me feel like a pea thrown against a wall and it doesn't make any sense. There was a question of the meaning of data collection in the National Reference System. And I have to say, I don't quite understand what leads to some criticism. The law is prepared with the utmost respect for the protection of personal data and does not go to any examination of specific patients. Of course, we need to get to know individuals in the data so we can map his path through the system, which means he's in the ambulance first, then he ends up in the hospital, there's something going on with him, he's taking some care, then he's transferred somewhere. We just need a patient identifier to talk about the real picture of what the system looks like. But after the connection, the data is only analysed after full anonymity and individual records are not and will never be sent anywhere or published. Therefore, private intervention is minimized and the analyses do not concern specific persons. The proposed amendment will allow you to monitor exactly what every citizen needs if he finds himself in the role of a patient. First of all, the quality and safety of health services, short-term and long-term care results and related compliance with diagnostic and treatment standards. Another objective is to monitor and ensure equal availability of proper care for citizens in all regions of the Czech Republic. Each of us certainly wishes to guarantee and control the quality of care we take. This cannot be ensured without complete and representative data. The data will also allow analysis of the costs of care provided in order to optimise them. The economic objectives are no less significant as savings in the system will allow the financing of modern treatment methods. It is not true that the proposed amendment substantially extends the volume and scope of the collected parameters. As I said above, the vast majority of the components remain unchanged. The suspicion that there will be collections of highly sensitive personal data, life-style data, divorces, social situations is completely pointless. For example, in tumors, we only monitor smoking from a personal history and the occurrence of previous tumours in the patient. This kind of surveillance is common in all advanced states, we don't do anything special. In addition, once again, I stress that it is not specific individuals. A reminder has been made as to why we will not use the data of health insurance companies to track them. Again, there is a fundamental misunderstand of the proposed amendment, because this is the most important part of it, namely the use of insurance data using the new National Register of Health Services. The amendment therefore seeks to reduce the administrative burden on Czech health care, as Professor Vyzula said, and to extract existing data, i.e. data stored in reporting health services in insurance data warehouses. These data warehouses will not be expanded by the amendment in any way. Thus, the amendment does not constitute any building of a giant and dangerous data warehouse. It's just data mining that already exist. Nor is it true that NHIS lags behind in data security or that data is somehow exposed to abuse. The security system is very sophisticated and robust. No one gets access to the primary data where there's personal data. Access is limited to the staff units of the administrator - internal employees, no outsourcing companies. No primary data is transmitted anywhere, and even analysts work with aggregated, anonymous data. The guarantee of safety is then control, the system must be controlled by independent and qualified professionals. We will now strengthen the external control system, including as a performance of tasks under cyber law. We have reported the NHIS as a critical information system and will be audited under cyber law. The proposed amendment is also in line with the strategy applied in this area by the advanced countries of Europe and the world. In many aspects, we are now lagging behind, for example, the Nordic states, Great Britain, Holland. Please note that in the developed countries of the world it is normal to monitor the availability and quality of care for the sick, it is normal to monitor the safety and quality of care for pregnant women, the health status of babies, small children. It's normal to have control over payment data that we all, as taxpayers, pay for care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u47	I thank you, Minister, and ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. We should now deal with Mr Svoboda's proposal, which proposes to return the law to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, in accordance, of course, with Section 93 (2) of the Act. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin your ID cards. I am now opening the vote on the proposal tabled by Mr Liberty. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 156, to which 122 are registered, for 18, against 96. The motion was denied. So let's keep going. I am opening a detailed debate in which I have signed up as the first Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to sign up for my amendment, which is mentioned under number 3303. I presented a reasoned report on this during the general debate in the past days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Madame. We have exchanged in the management of the meeting and will continue with the detailed debate. Next, Mr Hovorka will appear and Mr Brázdil will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u50	Thank you for the floor. In line with what I said last time, I'm filing a motion to dismiss this law, and I'm stating that the Minister has not answered my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brázdil will now prepare Mr Hovorka once more. No, you're interrupting. Okay. In that case, Mr Pavel Antonín. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u52	Thank you for the floor. I have three amendments in writing, one I would read orally. The first amendment under number 3204 - it is about giving information about obtaining, amending or terminating the authorisation for the provision of health services to the relevant chamber - the Czech medical, dental, pharmaceutical - should simply have this information because they are then placed on them from the courts, from the police, a purely technical matter. The second amendment, written under number 3652, concerns § 38 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). What's going on? The point is, imagine coming to a patient who's threatening the household, the kids, the husband with the knife under his neck, and the emergency services arrive, and the moment we go into the apartment, the lady is sitting in the chair, the knife is put away. She does not immediately endanger health and life. The word "immediately" is so binding, so complicated in the whole situation, and therefore the proposal is changed to "or highly likely to put the future at risk." It's up to the doctor to assess whether it's a theater or really a real threat. In short, "immediately" not only bothers the medical rescue service, but also bothers psychiatrists who actually have to hospitalize the patient against the will of the patient. The third amendment is set out in document 3214. This is what concerns my performance - the examination of the deceased's body, which is mentioned, is to be carried out by the medical rescue service. And I'm trying to ease the word "only in the provision of emergency pre-hospital care" here. But that's not enough. I've informed myself that this just doesn't play much of a role there. I'm not a lawyer, so I've been looking for information a lot until the Ministry told me -- it's no big deal, it doesn't change anything. That's why I'd like to read the oral amendment, which doesn't have a number, but I have to say it exactly. It is that the provisions of § 84 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) is deleted. And I'm also supposed to state the reasons. And the reason for that is: Rescue isn't here from examining the deceased's body, it's supposed to be someone completely different. Ambulance is a word to save. So that's where I'm trying not to put this paragraph in this Health Services Act at all, so that it doesn't even give it a chance. Thank you for your attention, and I hope to find people among you who, by common sense, will recognize that this is what it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u53	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will therefore now ask Pavel Antonín in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u54	I just want to sign up for a legislative technical change under number 3585, which is stored in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-001-016.u55	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I ask the rapporteur or the petitioner for final words. It's not like that. Thank you. In that case, I shall end the second reading of this proposal. I thank both the rapporteur and the petitioner. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
