ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u1	259. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I would like to inform you that on the agenda of the 49th meeting of the House, a total of 13 responses were submitted to written interviews with which Members were not satisfied, and for this reason they asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to draw all Members' attention to the provisions of Section 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which is to say that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the meeting, there is no debate on the answers to its interpellation, and the House will not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We would now proceed to discuss the answers... Mrs Putnová cancels her apology, is present. So we'll proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Mr Ondráček's interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, is the first interview. However, it was interrupted last time, it is press 814, and was interrupted into the presence of the Minister, who is excused today. So there is no condition to continue the discussion of this interpelation, and therefore this will remain further interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Markéta Adamová to the Minister of the Interior on police intervention on European Street. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing 815. This hearing was also suspended until the Minister was present. He's present now, so there's nothing stopping us from discussing this interview. I am opening the debate and, please, Mrs Markéta Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, there were many incidents at the end of April of this year when the Chinese delegation, including President Si Ťing-ping, Pching the Czech Republic. The police hit on European Street was one of many. As part of my immediate written interview, I asked you in particular about this intervention, but there was already a number of doubts. Let us remember that the Chamber of Deputies dealt with this at an extraordinary meeting. The subject of my interpelation was the procedure of the Police of the Czech Republic towards individual groups of demonstrators. Just to remind you - in the European street people probably encountered Chinese nationality, respectively. demonstrating to support the Chinese delegation, with Czech citizens who have come to express their views using, for example, Tibetan flags. According to the testimony recorded and on video footage of protesters supporting the Chinese delegation, they attacked a man with a Tibetan flag and used rods from their flags to attack. However, only the assaulted man was apprehended. I asked about the procedure involving police officers, including two questions that remained completely unresponsive in your response. In particular, you have not answered my question whether the attackers using physical violence have been investigated and punished. And I also wanted to know whether or not who gave the order to do this, or whether the police officers themselves decided to do this. Even this question was not answered in your reply. I ask you to answer now. Your response was defended by the police. You practically expressed support for the police and stood up for them. In your reply, I was struck by several passages dedicated to the secured man, i.e. Čech, who expressed his views on the ground and was attacked by Chinese activists. Let me quote: "At that moment a man with a camera entered the still-excited Chinese crowd and waved the Tibetan flag, which he had throughout the previous heated situation fixed around his neck and developed across his back. He was documenting the whole thing on camera. Based on his actions, a group of Číňan turned their attention to him and there were verbal and physical skirmishes. The reason for the collateral was the fact that the man actively entered the crowd of Chinese activists several times, knowing that his presence provokes these people and provokes an aggressive reaction. His actions thus repeatedly led to situations where there could be a threat to peace and order, an immediate threat to life or the health of his or her people and others." End of quote. So you're suggesting that if a man had not provoked, as you say, nothing would have happened, and he himself is responsible for the reaction of the Chinese demonstrators who attacked him? A man didn't attack anyone first. He didn't use violence, nor were there any record of verbal attacks, yet he was attacked. Assaulted because he had a Tibetan flag and filmed what was happening on camera. But to you, he was a provocateur who actually caused the situation. He was subsequently apprehended and the attackers left completely unpunished and without investigation. For me, it's completely reversed, to the perverse logic of the police, which, instead of hitting the attackers at a given moment, affected the victim. And even if she did so to protect him, she doubted that she left the aggressors completely unpunished. It is a completely double standard against individual participants in this incident. Your comments suggesting provocation from the man under appeal are scandalous, in my opinion. It's about the same level as saying that football fans of any club, let's say Sparta, are dressed in jerseys and fan shawl of their club and attacked by hooligans, i.e. obvious supporters of another club, are themselves responsible for their assault because they provoked. Or is a raped woman responsible for her rape because she was wearing a miniskirt? Similarly, in such cases, would you defend police officers who would not have detained the attackers in these words? I ask you to explain how you meant it in the cited passages of your reply. [[9.10 hours]] Another of the very controversial moments during the entire visit of the President of the People's Republic of China was the closure of Hradčany Square for a pre-announced and permitted demonstration. The demonstrators who gathered to support human rights and wanted to express their views on China were not allowed in the square. There were many closed streets and places. Cops were literally on every corner. The flags of Tibet in the windows were seen as a security risk. These measures can now be seen from a perspective which will enable us to see other important international visits that the Czech Republic has hosted since then. For example, when visiting the Austrian President less than 14 days after visiting a Chinese ordinary citizen of Prague moving in the city centre, he did not have a chance to notice that such a visit was taking place. However, the security situation in Europe, which you have taken into account in your response, has not changed at all in less than 14 days. On the contrary, the security situation in Europe has deteriorated over the last few months, and yet we have not recently seen such large security maneuvers, closing streets and squares during the visit of the German Chancellor, although its arrival was accompanied by protests and demonstrations, whether in support of it or vice versa. How do we explain such a fundamental contrast? In what way was Angela Merkel's visit to Prague Castle different from the Chinese president that it was not necessary to close Hradčany Square because of it, whereas in pching Ťin's presence it was necessary? There is only one thing to think about in light of these visits. At the time of the visit of the Chinese President, the Police of the Czech Republic behaved above standard and the measures taken oversized. I understand and do not fully underestimate the need for security measures in the visits of major global politicians. I do not understand, however, why the Chinese one enjoyed so much and significantly different measures. This contradiction would explain only that, at the time of the Chinese visit, the Police of the Czech Republic had information that there was a terrorist or other attack. Did the police have that kind of information? Another explanation would then be that this approach was in line with a command or wish. We can probably only imagine in what interest this was done and why it was the impression of the hunch of a democratic state and its representation before a state of undemocratic establishment, albeit certainly large and certainly not insignificant. In the Czech Republic we have the right of assembly. Our right as citizens of a free country is also an opportunity to express our views in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in word, in writing, in print, in image or in other ways. This right should also be defended by police officers as an authority designated to do so. During the visit of the Chinese President, these rights were often denied in many places and many citizens. The service to the People's Republic of China, which has been demonstrated by some measures and procedures by the police, is given a whole new dimension if, moreover, it is viewed in the light of the latest annual report by the Security Information Service for 2015. You certainly know its content, but I would like to quote especially for colleagues: "Significant economic interests are, like other areas, the aim of intelligence services of foreign power, which use methods in their work here, such as the gradual attachment of persons who possess interesting information or decision-making powers for a foreign power. This includes using some people's sense of importance, their desire for financial gain, or lack of self-esteem. As in other areas, wider awareness of these methods is important, with which lower officials as well as senior officials of the state and its institutions can meet. Particular caution should be exercised when contacting the power interests of foreign state authorities, especially those of the intelligence services there, such as the Russian Federation or the People's Republic of China. In 2015, intelligence services of the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation were most prominent in the Czech Republic. China's diplomatic, intelligence and economic entities focused on the use of success from the previous year and continued intensively to expand and cultivate pro-Chinese influential infrastructure in Czech politics and economy." End of quote. Minister, do you realize, as the highest representative responsible for the Police of the Czech Republic, that what the BIS describes in 2015, you have completely fulfilled and perhaps even surpassed in 2016? I am very curious to see how events related to this visit will be dealt with in this year's annual BIS report. The BIS quite explicitly warns against the growing Chinese influence in our country. It's as strong as the Russian Federation. And yet it seems that you and the police were worth much more preventing the citizens from expressing their views, which you masked to protect the Chinese delegation, but for example for other visits that have taken place over the last four months, we can see that the measures taken were far from standard. It is extremely dangerous to create an atmosphere in a society where the rights to a demonstration of opinions under the cover of security are limited. I want to believe that you are aware of this and that you will fully condemn such actions. But not only words are important, but actions are particularly important. That is why I am asking you again to investigate incidents in particular on European Street and in Hradčany Square and to ask for information as to whether the attackers from European Street have been punished, which you have not yet responded to. I would not like to see the people's views, even if they are demonstrated completely in accordance with the law, to be allowed by the police, whether out of fear of reaction from the other side or for any other reason. It's a gamble with our fundamental rights, and it's a gamble with freedom of expression. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u3	Thank you, Madame. In addition to the debate, the Minister of the Interior. I will announce that the Prime Minister is voting with Card No. 16 and Mr Ondráček with card No. 17.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, my fellow Member, has had a rather extensive speech. I hope I can answer all the questions she asked. I would say that the Czech state, the Czech government is very aware of the ingers of some foreign states into interest structures and let us say the state power in the Czech Republic, not only China and the Russian Federation, but also other states that describe reports not only Security Information Services, but also other secret services that the Czech Republic has and has with them. Of course, we are also familiar with those parts that are classified, so-called widespread, more specific. I think that this is the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, who is very keen to ensure that the reports not only the BIS but also the Military Intelligence, the UZSI do not fit in and respond specifically to them. I will not reveal anything secret that the Prime Minister is very careful to ensure that the specific things described in all types of reports find a response in the given resorts. The police of the Czech Republic just because one of the Chinese tourists took the Tibetan flag of one of the protesters by force came to trial. The court, if I am not mistaken, has freed him in the past days, yet this man was charged with the Police of the Czech Republic, subsequently charged and the court ruled in this way. Knowing that the Czech Republic and the Ministry of the Interior are aware of security risks, perhaps our experts might also testify that a few days ago they assessed part of Chinese technology as inappropriate for the state. I think that, too, is proof that the state is very careful to defend its interests primarily. On the other hand, we have an independent police force, an independent police president, and the Home Secretary does not have an inspection of the Interior Minister, which he had in the past and where he could interfere with the personnel matters that the police are doing inside themselves. Of course, after all the incidents that were, I asked the police president, I put all the incidents or so-called incidents on his heart, because part of them proved that it wasn't true, which described the media, to examine the public in detail. This has also happened, and all of these incidents you are talking about have been evaluated not only from the surveillance footage of the Police of the Czech Republic, but also, of course, from the television footage that had a chance to see the public. And often the cutting that's in the media, if it's not accompanied by that other view of the second or third camera or you don't see it in the context, it's very difficult to judge. [[9.20 hours]] Based on the internal evaluation of the Police of the Czech Republic, the police came to a conclusion which is generally known, and this conclusion states that there has been an error in the issue of police entry into FAMU. That's where we apologized. Personally, I was there to apologize. From my point of view, this was a useless zeal for police officers who simply crossed the boundaries given by the order. In all the other incidents you are referring to, the internal police investigation has cleared police officers, claiming that their progress was justified and that there was a legitimate reason for these interventions, as they were done. In addition, we all know that there are submissions that are currently being addressed by the General Inspections of the Security Corps. There was probably a filing in the direction of the High Attorney's Office. And as to how these investigations are going, i.e. investigations that should relate to lawbreaking police officers, I have no information. This is a live investigation, probably, and I have no deeper knowledge of it. If there is a need for further knowledge at this time, it is probably possible to contact the relevant committee of Parliament, which oversees and supervises the operation of the General Inspection of Security Corps. As to how you asked if those persons who intervened or acted illegally, if you mean cops, that's what I answered. 23 persons were detained, 22 of which were suspected of infractions against civil coexistence, and one person I have already mentioned from a number of Chinese delegations on suspicion of the crime of theft of the Tibetan flag. This person in court turned out the way the media reported it so far. I don't know if this sentence is final or not, but in any case, this person has gone to court and had a chance to defend his actions in a democratic judicial review. I want to say clearly here that wearing a Tibetan flag cannot mean any violation of the law. It can't even mean that someone will excuse an attack on such a person. Freedom of speech, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly are simply a value that can only be limited and only in cases described by the law. With the person you're talking about, I'm drawing on the police report, and of course those police officers have at their disposal interviews not only of this person, but of the intervening police officers and other persons who were close to the person concerned's actions. The fact that he had a Tibetan flag around him - on his back - is not the way of provocation. That kind of provocation was probably in the style of some verbal assault and other attacks police have recorded. At least according to the information I got. For this reason it is described in this way. It is certainly not that a person who goes to express his opinion politely, even in a crowd that is passionate, protesters who were excited that it should mean that this person is breaking or committing something. The police say that he has a record of verbal assault, that he has a record of de facto the efforts of this man to escalate the conflict and to make a certain video recording. I even think that the police have arrested this person, that it has prevented an attack on this person who might not have turned out well for this citizen. We have a democratic establishment, a democratic state, and the only way to monitor the functionality and, above all, compliance with the laws - the Police of the Czech Republic - has been decided by the Chamber of Deputies in the past by contributing to this priority to the General Inspection of Security Corps. I would wait until the investigation of the inspector general comes down, and then we could go back to this place and evaluate whether the cops are right, who say everything was legal, or whether the part of the public that objects to certain things is right. I really don't know about the results, and I can't tell when they will be. And I'm saying again, if any policeman is in doubt and it's obvious that he didn't, I'm not gonna defend him at all costs. On the other hand, the short, simple media view, let's say it's a certain segment, which is five-, three-, ten-second, compared to an intervention that could have lasted 15-20 minutes, so the law of the policeman needs to be assessed. They too have the right to defend themselves and defend themselves. As regards the right to the assembly which you referred to and the closure of the relevant public areas which have been closed, if I remember correctly, an action has been brought, and it is therefore necessary to wait for the competent authorities and, where appropriate, the court to decide on this matter. Since the position of the Police of the Czech Republic, protection services, is such that there are obvious reasons, and there were obvious reasons to proceed in this way. That is why the police have taken action, and it is up to it and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior, to prove their actions, to defend them in court or in any investigation, which will undoubtedly happen. I want to clearly, categorically refuse here (?) that there was no order for Czech police officers to go out to meet the Chinese delegation, that Czech police officers treat Czech citizens differently and the citizens of the People's Republic of China. Again, if such an order existed, neither the police president nor the Home Secretary could be in office anymore. There never was such a command, never found. And if you look at the briefing that those cops had, which is documented, which is documented on video footage, it's just that those police officers who intervened weren't briefed on something like that. I am even convinced that if someone were to instruct police officers of the Czech Republic in this way, they would understand very quickly that this is not a legal procedure and that they would have called back by then. It didn't happen. I don't have a way to live up to your call for further investigation right now, because the General Inspectorate is interested in these matters. It's a live investigation, and when this investigation is over and the Inspector General reports the results, we will comment on these results. If there is any misconduct on the part of the police, believe that there will be a penalty. But I refuse to judge those police officers at a flat rate until there's evidence and until they have a chance to defend themselves. I think that's how it's supposed to be, and that's how it's supposed to work in a democratic state. A few days ago, I also noted some complaints about how the Ministry of the Interior stands up to asylum seekers from the People's Republic of China in administrative proceedings. I sent a report to all Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic the day before yesterday describing the situation. And if you look, in the past, Chinese citizens have already received asylum in the Czech Republic. In 2010 it was one citizen, in 2014 it was seven citizens. You also have a clear table showing how many applications were rejected, how many were total and where they were granted. I want to say that even here, we are proceeding perfectly under the law, absolutely within the administrative procedure. I'd just like to remind you that, for example. A few days ago, the media reported that the United States had accepted migrants with Syria after annual checks. That means, let's say, a year's worth of checking out applications, interviews and other things isn't uncommon in the world, and given the need to make a really precise decision, this time doesn't seem long to me. Once again, I would like to categorically reject that there is some tendency in the administrative management of ministerial officials, without political influence, and I would stress delaying any compliance with these requests. It is imperative that those applications be checked if they are made. These people are being interviewed, these people are being discussed, and they're finding out if the information they've actually given is true. I would like to say once more, categorically, that Czech police officers, the Czech Ministry of the Interior, and I believe that the Czech state and Czech officials, would be partial to any foreign power. Anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u5	Thank you, Minister. President Kalousek is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you are right that the court will definitely decide whether or not the Hradčany Square was blocked or not in accordance with the law, because an administrative action has been brought. However, it still sounds like a mild alibis to me from the Home Secretary. The Ministry of the Interior is an expert body of the state administration which gives it an interpretation opinion for the purposes of practice. For example, the assembly law. This means, in general, whether or not it is possible to limit the right of assembly by means of transport engineering measures, we are really interested. If you would be so kind as to answer us whether you believe to cancel, relocate or limit the assembly properly reported under the assembly law is possible by means of transport engineering measures of the Magistrate, or whether it has to be done differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u7	Yes. I will ask who is next reporting for the debate. Mrs Adamová, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u8	I'd like to add some more insights to that question from what you answered yourself. You said there were obvious reasons for closing Hradčany Square. So can you please name the reasons for this, what are the obvious reasons? In general, if you do not wish to comment on an ongoing investigation, what could be such obvious reasons? For you, in the answer for which I thank you, have forgotten a little about the comparison of the individual international visits that I have made and where it can be seen that the measures during the visit of the Chinese delegation were indeed above-standard. If you'd like to comment on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u9	Yes. The Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u10	Dear Member, Madam, about your questions. To close the square was the same reason as when he visited the US President, this is priority protection of protected persons. Information available to the Police of the Czech Republic and the Security Service. Every visit that comes, whether it be a visit from the Chinese President, the American President, the German Chancellor, or also from other states, is being evaluated, is very precisely prepared and is prepared step by step. I am convinced that there were reasons to close the space. We have, of course, carried out a review within the Ministry of the Interior and I have no problem sending back to all Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the opinion of the expert department of the Ministry. And once again, it's not just the police's position, it's the Home Office's position, and we're ready to stand him in court. Only the court can decide who is right, if the party who claims that there were no legal reasons for this, or the Police of the Czech Republic, where the Ministry of the Interior is a certain supervisor, where we say that this possibility exists here and that it was in accordance with the law of the Czech Republic and that the Magistrate acted legally on this matter. There's nothing left to do but wait for the verdict. I will, of course, send all Members and Members today, no later than tomorrow, the opinion of the expert guarantor, the Ministry of the Interior, in the form of our Security Department, which has spoken on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u11	I'm going to ask who's still reporting for the debate. Mrs Adamová, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u12	If I'm not mistaken, I still haven't answered my question about the aggressors on European Street. Whether they were being investigated and punished in some way. We didn't know that. For this reason, I would propose to colleagues and colleagues pursuant to § 112 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, in order for the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on this interpelation: The Chamber of Deputies accepts the reply to the written interpelation under House Press No. 815 disagreeable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u13	Yes. I will put it to a vote after I conclude the debate. The Minister still wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u14	I apologize terribly to the lady of your service, Mr President. I still don't know what the aggressors are. If from among the police - there I was talking about this being handled by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps and I do not have a legal option until these individual incidents are examined in relation to the violation of the law of the policeman, give an opinion on this. To the other people's question, I said 23 people were apprehended. 22 for reasons of law transfer in the form of an offence and one of the offence of withdrawal of the flag. That was the Chinese citizen the court set free. That means I don't quite understand which aggressors the esteemed colleague has in mind. If they're police officers, we'll have to wait there for the inspector general. In the other part, I answered it exactly by the number. I don't have that information as far as criminal proceedings went. After that, it falls within the gesture of the relevant magistrate, where the citizen lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u15	I'll see you later, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u16	I'm sorry I didn't say anything more sophisticated about the aggressors. I was referring to those Chinese citizens who attacked this man on the first day of the visit to the Chinese delegation. How many of those 23, or what the specific number is? I don't mean cops at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u17	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u18	From the information I have from the police: total number 23, of which one Číňan accused of a crime. The court has freed him. How many of the remaining 22 are Chinese citizens, I don't have that information. I'll try to request it. I'm not sure it can or can't be published. I will still request this information and send it in writing to all Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u19	Mr. Ondráček, Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave matters of expertise to the experts and we do politics. Because if we believe that we are the ones who should assess the importance and seriousness of the security measures taken during visits to foreign delegations, I think we do not have enough expertise to do so, but also enough expertise. If one of us wanted to compare the importance and seriousness of a visit to the Chinese President and compare it with a five-hour visit from Prime Minister Merkelová, I think he knows little about security policy and security as such. So please, let's leave it to the Police of the Czech Republic, which is doing the security measures. Because if there were any excesses and a protected person or delegation were put in danger, it would be on the head of the police president and the Home Secretary. Either way, there's always someone to kick. Either it's too strict or it's not enough. Let us be glad that public visits to our country will end up being handled by politics, that there are no rocks thrown at people, or that there are no shootings. Allow me even now that I'm here and the debate is open, I'm going to use the Prime Minister's presence. Prime Minister, please, I have since March, virtually. I've been waiting since April for your Minister of Social Affairs to come here to the Chamber of Deputies and be able to answer my question. If he thinks he's gonna blow it, 'cause one day I'm not coming, let him take a look at my attendance. Unlike her, I come here and I come here until she answers. Thank you for holding me back with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u21	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u22	Mr Ondráček called on us to make policy and security issues leave to security experts. Let me say that we are actually doing a policy and a policy on an extremely sensitive issue. Collection law is one of the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. If it has been restricted by transport engineering measures, which, in our view, is impossible, what other policy is the House to do than defend the constitutional rights of citizens of the Czech Republic? I do not wish to revive old wounds, but through the President, Mr Ondráček, when you once were a security expert in the special forces of the Ministry of the Interior in order to restrict the rights of the citizens of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, you dealt with this strictly expertly. Still, I dare say it was a top politician back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u23	Mr. Vice-President Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to disagree with my colleague, Mr Ondráček, in a fundamental way. The House's task is to be an institutionalized discussion. And when it comes to the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens, that is where we definitely have to discuss them. I understand that if it is left to security experts, and if Parliament doesn't supervise it, then different coups, like in history, are easier to do. But I think it's our job, and we absolutely cannot resign from this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u25	Mr. Ondráček, Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u26	My lords, I do not prevent you from discussing the subject, but you have administrative actions brought and we have independent courts to decide. Then wait for an independent court to decide, and then discuss whether you want to change the law or something in any way. You're prejudging a court order. And Mr. Kalousek's statement. I feel sorry for you, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u27	Through me, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u28	It's yours, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u29	I'll ask if anyone else is reporting for the debate. If this is not the case, I will call on my colleagues from the lobby because we will be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Adamová here. There is yet an apology from Mr Plzák for today from 9 to 13 o'clock, and then there is Mr Kott's apology for today from 12 o'clock for working reasons. So many apologies. Mrs Adamová proposes that the House express its opposition to the Minister of the Interior's reply. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 101. It's registered 88, for 13, against 53. This proposal has not been adopted and I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. Another intervention is the interpelling of Mr Bendl to the Minister of Agriculture. However, he is excused, so it was not fulfilled the condition for the continuation of this interpelation and it is still interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelling of Mr Grebeníček to the Prime Minister present. This is about the lack of information provided by the Prime Minister on 21 January and 22 March to the Chamber of Deputies on Government activities and a request for information in connection with the alibi attitude of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole to identify and address the real causes of the migration crisis, to prevent the causes and take forward effective measures to manage security risks to Czech citizens. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 824. I am opening the debate at the moment and Mr Grebeníček has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there was much to be said about the migration crisis before my intervention on Prime Minister Sobotka was interrupted. For example, if we want to survive and live in a peaceful, safer world, then the solution is not and cannot be the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance, the militarisation of European and world politics and the power of overcoming powers. And the fact that both the world and Europe face threats to which such a selfish, aggressive or irresponsible policy was born. I have also criticized the servile Czech governments that have contributed to the growth of these threats, especially by bowing and sucking up to the militant governments of the United States of America. That is why I am also saying that this should finally straighten the backbone of official Czech politics and stop serving various planetary freaks. It is not possible to open your own door to irrationality indefinitely. I recall the Iraq War of 2003. No, I am not referring to the outrageous aggression of the United States of America and Great Britain, but to France, whose then president Jacques Chirac rejected the invasion sharply. France was right at the time, even though the international community was immensely picking on it. Right now, she's experiencing a sense of satisfaction. Certainly, when, in November 1990, after the successful completion of Vienna's disarmament negotiations between the North Atlantic Alliance States and the Warsaw Treaty, a declaration was issued about the end of the Cold War, when in March 1991 the military-political group of the Warsaw Treaty officially shut down and the bipolar division of the world fell apart, some optimists declared the age of peace. They even declared the beginning of a new era of cooperation between the East and the West. The voices, which at the time doubted and pointed to the asserting power interests and surviving imperialist force tendencies in international relations, were ridiculed or censored and suppressed according to circumstances. The power elites of superpowers who won the Cold War, the ruling class of the United States of America, saw the demise of bipolarites as a relaxed space for their own political, economic and military expansion. Yes, gross economic, political, and when it pays off market, even military violence is imposed on the international community by the so-called Euro-Atlantic system of single right values and rules. The interpretation of human rights and the role of arbitrary have been monopolized by the United States of America, which shares it to a minimum with those who are willing to assist them in the maintenance of this government. I therefore consider it necessary and vital for the international community that every move by the North Atlantic Alliance and the United States of America on the international stage should be objectively analysed and loudly named by its real name. Especially when it comes to war crimes, crimes against peace and crimes against humanity under international law. These problems are answered here and there by some courageous journalists, but not by Sobotkův's government coalition. Her gossip about the cross wars, about the clash of cultures and civilizations, about permanent militarization is the way to hell. Either we all survive together and survive in a multicultural society based on mutually beneficial economic, political and cultural cooperation, respecting our differences, or we become prisoners and ultimately victims of endless confrontation and escalation of everyone's violence against everyone. [[9.50 hours]] A year ago, when German Chancellor Angela Merkelová invited all refugees to Germany from war countries, occupations and subversive activities of the United States and the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, especially in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria, it found a response. The Němec had to face a million-dollar wave of migrants walking freely across the European Union. And they quickly realized they couldn't handle the tide. But it took Angela Merkelová a whole year to see. In an interview for Süddeutsche Zeitung, she now put ashes on her head. It stated that Germany had in the past left the foreign states of the European Union to deal with the coming refugees themselves and admitted that "in Germany we have ignored this problem for too long and suppressed the need to find a pan-European solution." Furthermore, she admitted that she did not support initiatives to protect EU borders, and she repentantly added: "We argued that we would cope with the problem at our airports. That doesn't work." If, with Merkelová's growing problems with Germany and the whole of the European Union, there has been some clarity, and if it starts to talk about protecting the common borders of the European Union, it is, I dare say, a partial vision. In German diplomacy and in many other European Union Member States and Brussels peaks, there is no major turnover. And with an extraordinary dose of hypocrisy, Merkelová and others still refuse to draw conclusions from what leads to many million-dollar waves of refugeeism. Expansive policy and state-owned terrorist force methods by the governments of the United States, economic extortion and pillage of poor countries by multinational groups and participation not only by members of the North Atlantic Alliance, including Germany, but also by the European Union's participation in covering and supporting these methods are still an undisclosed and unsolved cause. Unfortunately, Germany's interest in the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance to the East and to the Balkans and Asia as well as Germany's participation in the looting of the poor countries of Asia and Africa continues. I am therefore most responsible for assessing the critical position of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman, who, on her recent state visit to Prague, reminded the Czech Republic and Merkelová else that when she invited them to Germany, there is no reason for the consequences of her irresponsibleness to be passed on to the Czech Republic and anyone else. But if he referred Angela Merkelová to the proper limits of the President of the Republic, I waited for the equally consistent positions of the Czech Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister in vain. After all, there is much more to be asked of the government than the President. Blind and local support for the expansionary strategy of the North Atlantic Alliance and the local attitudes of the Czech government, its individual ministers, towards the United States government, but also Brussels are dragging us into further, even more serious problems than the current migration crisis. Yes, a change in the local style and the rubber backbones of Czech foreign policy is essential. This is also linked to the outcome of the British referendum on leaving the European Union. The result of the vote is, by its essence, an expression of the long-term unsolved social and political crisis of this European grouping. And the resolution of this crisis would be urgent even if the citizens of the United Kingdom decided to remain in the European Union. Its leaders should finally understand that the neoliberal and antisocial establishment of the European Union represents a permanent threat to European integration from within and that the big business and arrogance of EU officials cannot be the ultimate goal of all efforts. But Prime Minister Sobotka, in connection with Britain, is talking about the alleged chaos and the long political crisis there. He even said that Brexit had damaged European and global balance. Something that unfortunately doesn't exist in today's world. Nor did he fail to address the reasons why the Brit do not want to be in the European Union anymore. I want to believe he's gonna try today. Not only towards the European Union, but also to the North Atlantic Alliance and the migration crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u31	The Prime Minister wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u32	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I believe that the dispute and the debate that is being held here on the basis of Mr Grebeníček's interpelation has nothing to do with the fact that I would perhaps not give Mr Grebeníčk all the necessary information or answer the questions he has asked, but in my opinion, there is simply a difference in the political view of the foreign policy of the Czech Republic. There is a difference in our view of our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, there is a difference in our view of the importance of our membership in the European Union. And I think it's a natural thing. It cannot be expected that a Member for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will have the same view of foreign policy as a government that is made up of social democracy, YES and KDU-ČSL. It is also good to note that, even from the diction and statements of Mr Grebeníček, it is clear that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is not satisfied that the Czech Republic is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance and has a completely different view of the Alliance's individual actions and policies than the Government of the Czech Republic. Because Mr Grebeníček criticized NATO as if it were an organisation that lies completely outside the Czech Republic, outside our will, outside our ability to participate in the functioning of this organization. And very often this is how the European Union is described by some other policies. I think, above all, it must be realised that if we are members of the North Atlantic Alliance - and this government believes that it is a good thing that we are members of the North Atlantic Alliance and that we should actively participate in the whole spectrum of NATO activities - we naturally have an influence on decision-making within this organisation. It's not that there's NATO, there's the Czech Republic and there's no interaction. We are members of NATO structures, we are involved in the formulation of political will within this defence organization. Within this - I stress - defence alliance. The entry of the Czech Republic into NATO significantly increased the security guarantees that the Czech Republic has today and which are guaranteed by all other members of this defence alliance. But, as I stress again, it is difficult to agree with Mr Grebeníček whether it is a good thing that the Czech Republic is a member of NATO. KSČM has long considered that this is not a good thing. I, as a social democrat, have long been convinced that this is good for the safety of our citizens. [[10.00 hours]] And if we look at how the world has changed, how the situation is getting worse, we also need to talk about what's going on around Europe, because there's not just war in Syria, there's not just the problem of the Iraq war, there's not just the Islamic State, there's not just a disbanded Libya, but there's also a conflict between Ukraine and Russia, there's also occupied by Crimea, i.e. Disruption of Ukraine's territorial integrity. It's just that all of this is creating a aggravated international security climate that our government has been reflecting significantly for the past two years. Among other things, we reflect on it by focusing heavily on strengthening our own defence capabilities of the Czech Republic precisely to be able to fulfil the commitments we have as a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. And I am glad that we have increased our defense budget, that this is our government, which is increasing the numbers of soldiers, and that, no doubt, when the mandate of our government is over, we will be prepared significantly better for our country's defence than we were for example. three or four years ago, when there were huge budget cuts, which concerned precisely defence expenditure. But it's hard to agree here if there are such diametrically different opinions, whether we should be members of the North Atlantic Alliance or not. It is good to realize that there are indeed more motives for the long - term tension in the Middle East region. It's a matter of boundaries, as they were drawn at a time when colonial powers were ruling. These borders have been drawn very often regardless of the ethnic or religious composition of the individual countries that have been created in this way by the agreements of the colonial powers. Of course, there are religious problems within Islam. It is by far not just the problem of the conflict between Islam and other religious directions, but it is also serious ethnic and religious conflicts within the Muslim world itself, the Muslim environment in the Middle East. It is, of course, a problem of radicalism of Islamists, terrorists of the Islamic State. And I want to stress that the Czech Government is doing this responsibly and that, in the context of the possibilities available to us, and in the context of a rational approach, we are trying to help combat the worst demonstration of extremism and terrorism, which is undoubtedly the Islamic State in this region. So here we are part of a broad international coalition, where around 70 states are trying to coordinate their progress and fight against the Islamic State. And the Czech Republic is making a significant contribution to this. However, I want to emphasise that we respect international law, and we also respect the sovereignty of individual countries. If we help, we help in cooperation e.g. with the Iraqi Government and we support the troops that support the Iraqi governments as such, whether they are Kurdish troops or are directly units of the Iraqi Government in terms of combating the Islamic State. Mr Grebeníček also mentioned the situation of the migration crisis, migration in Europe, Brexit. Well, I think Brexit is something that will, of course, affect European thinking and European debate in the coming years. That's not something we could put aside, like it's already done and it won't have any effect. Undoubtedly, Brexit will strengthen the importance of Germany and France within the European Union, which can lead to a weakening of transatlantic ties, because within the European Union, Great Britain was a strong supporter of transatlantic ties. And there is undoubtedly a long debate about why the Brit have actually decided in the referendum as they have decided. If I overlook the strong island tradition of independence, which has always been present in British thought and British politics, I have been in my public appearances and discussions with our partners, including the discussion I had with Mrs Merklová or with our partners in V4, i.e. with Slovák, Maďar, Polák, I stress one aspect that we should not forget, and this is the opening up of the British labour market. Because, unlike Germany or Austria, Britain did not have transitional periods that would gradually open up its labour market, but Britain was one of the countries that immediately opened up their labour market for workers from Eastern Europe, including people who came there from the Czech Republic or Slovakia. And, of course, Britain's opening up to its labour market raised great support in Eastern Europe at that time. Certainly our then government supported this very much, logically, with great applause in the European Commission, because it was seen as an example of a helpful step after the enlargement of the European Union. However, the Brit themselves began to react differently after a few years. Because when you open up the labour market so sharply, of course, you have to prepare the infrastructure for that. And it seems that it is in this respect that the British government has partially overslept, perhaps not appreciated all the social and economic effects of such a rapid opening up of the British labour market to workers from Eastern Europe. And then unfortunately, especially Polák, but also Rumun and Slovák and partly Čech became an argument of Brexit supporters who wanted to limit migration. When there was debate about migration in Britain, it was not the migration that we are discussing here in our country - wild illegal migration, which comes mainly from North Africa and the Middle East. But if there was a debate in Britain before Brexit about migration, it was a debate about people from Central and Eastern Europe, even from us who came to the UK to work as citizens of the European Union and have, which is right and right, the same rights on the British labour market as citizens of the British Union. And this thing began to be questioned by the Eurosceptics, it was later questioned by part of the Conservative Party, and a very strong argument was made, which then influenced the debate before the British referendum. So I would ask that we avoid simplifying the reasons why it is tight, but yet most Brit people have decided to support the withdrawal from the European Union. There were a number of them, and it is certainly not possible to ignore the situation on the British labour market in the area of migration within the European Union. I stress - within the European Union. Another point concerns our position on the migration crisis. Mr Grebeníček here dramatically described the visit of German Chancellor Merkelová to the Czech Republic, claiming that she received other positions in the area of migration at the Castle and other positions at the Office of the Government. I can clearly say that Mrs Merkelová certainly did not have to come to the Czech Republic to learn the Czech Government's position on the migration crisis. I represented Hungary, Poland and Slovakia in the framework of the V4 at all the European Council meetings for a year, and I clearly interpreted the positions that V4 had on the migration crisis from the start. And those were attitudes different from those of Germany. These were at one time and positions different from those of Austria or some other Member States of the European Union. And time has shown that the attitudes of countries such as Germany, France or Belgium have gradually begun to approach the attitudes of the Czech Republic. I think it is best to demonstrate this in Austria, when Austria first criticised technical measures at the borders, criticised border closure, and finally his position has evolved in that the Rakušan, like the Čech or as Slovák or as Maďar, sent their police officers to Macedonia to help close the Macedonian-Greecen border against illegal migration, which came from Turkey through Greek territory. So it is not that the position of the Czech Government or the V4 is changing, but the attitude of a large part of the older Member States of the European Union is changing under the pressure of reality, because they are beginning to realize that the problem of migration cannot be solved at the expense of social standards and at the expense of the security of citizens in the countries of the European Union, but it is necessary to seek solutions to help people, but at the same time not to jeopardise our own security and functioning of our countries. And such help is most effective in the countries of origin of migration. I can clearly confirm here that our government will continue the policy of helping us on the ground. A few days ago, the government of the Czech Republic approved support for a very specific refugee camp in the north of Jordan. For the funds we provide through the United Nations, there will be a dignified accommodation for 2,500 Syrian refugees so that they can stay in Jordan's territory and not have to go to Europe under dignified conditions. We also contribute and help in our activities in Lebanon, helping in Turkey. And I am convinced that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, if it leads to Syrian refugees not leaving Europe but staying in Turkey, is an effective and reasonable agreement. [[10.10 hours]] And similar agreements as we have with Turkey should be made with Egypt in the future, we should have with Tunisia, we should have with Libya when there is a stable government. We must also agree with Libya that there is a clear return policy that we will be able to implement within the European Union. This is the only way to cope with the migration crisis. The possibility is not to legalize illegal migration, that's not the way. We must prevent illegal migration and we must rely on international documents, on international commitments that clearly state who has the right to asylum in the countries of the European Union, how the Schengen area is to function, and we must insist on compliance with the rules within the Schengen area. And the Czech government has been doing it from the very beginning. So many just a few comments on Mr Grebeníček's rather extensive speech, which therefore began at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and continued today. However, I am convinced that, although we have different views on the contribution that membership in the North Atlantic Alliance or in the European Union has made to us, I believe that the government can only act to respect the trust given to it by the Chamber of Deputies to respect the government's programming statement with which it has received this trust in the House of Deputies, and I am convinced that, in terms of foreign policy and the actions that we have voted in foreign policy for more than two and a half years, they have moved within the mandate that the Government has had on the basis of the trust of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u33	Yes. I'll ask... Mr Grebeníček wishes to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Sobotka has not failed again. All indications are that his government really wants to be a poor puppet government, with regard to the interests of the powers of the North Atlantic Alliance and its doctrine of preventive wars outside the framework of the United Nations Charter, which defends the interests of power elites of protector powers instead of the interests of Czech citizens. If he could lean on the referendum, if he could lean on the views of most of our fellow citizens on joining the North Atlantic Alliance, I couldn't ask questions here today that make him uncomfortable. Such a referendum has not taken place and it is irresponsible to our citizens! No, I do not consider it normal that the Czech government blindly and obediently transmits the consequences and costs of the aggressive and expansionary policies of the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance to Czech citizens. The current Prime Minister has no courage to change things. It's just not Czech Chirac. He does not have the courage even to admit and deny the real causes of the migration crisis and security threats. And so no wonder there are those who consider him, and I apologize in advance for them, so supposedly a weak and frightened protectorate figure. That's what I quote. However, I personally believe that what is called bonapartism cannot be ruled out with Prime Minister Sobotka. At a recent meeting of the Czech ambassadors, he said that the times of relative peace in Europe are past, and the changed security situation in Europe is said to require appropriate answers, including the creation of a common European army. His statement kind of upset me. I gained a proper balance only after Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, in response to Sobotkův's bombing statement, stated that the creation of a multinational European army was essentially impossible. So I ask what security policy can be and what is the level of responsibility of the government for the Republic and its citizens when the Prime Minister and his cabinet are unwilling and unable to admit the truth to themselves, when they are not willing to provide the Chamber of Deputies and citizens with even mere information on the essential causes - I repeat, of the essential causes - of the current migration crisis and security risks. All indications suggest that the current Prime Minister is unable to do so, so he prefers to mistreat purposefully. And it is becoming more and more obvious that, as we expect to change the ostrich's cabinet policy for the better under its leadership, we have been waiting in vain for the third year that we will hardly see it by the end of the parliamentary term. And my little things have nothing to do but take note of it and not ask for a new answer. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I understand that you will not propose a resolution. Thank you. Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u36	Hello again. I have carefully listened to the long monologue, the elongated monologue of the Prime Minister, who basically praised everything, and we took a field trip to all the states in Europe, whether it was because of work visas or whatever. I kind of missed Latin America and Australia, but, well, it'll come to that next time, I'm sure we'll find some space here. If I were to discuss and disprove your expression of truth, half-truth, sometimes even deliberate untruths, we would probably spend another hour here, and we could leave this discussion for another time. The only thing I'm quite interested in if I wanted to know your answer, Prime Minister, is that when you spoke about the Middle East and how you so well support those states that are fighting against the Islamic State, and you mentioned, I think, Iraq, Iran and the Kurdish militia, if you would be able to tell me how it is possible that, I think, the Kurdish militia found Czech weapons in the Islamic State. The Czech weapons you export from here and deliver them to anyone who cuts themselves out of them. And you don't really care who's dying in there. Because if it wasn't, I'm sure you'll be investigating how it is possible that Czech weapons are in the hands of terrorists. You don't do that, only here you can talk about things, maybe somebody else... well, put your own face on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u37	I will ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate and, given that no motion for a resolution has been made, I am also ending the discussion of this intercession. Mr Fiedler's interpellation, which is excused, is another interpellation, so this interpelation will not be discussed. Mr Fiedler's interpellation to Minister Valachová is another intercession, but they are both excused, so nothing either. Interpelling Mr Vojtěch Filip to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the negotiation of TTIP and CETE contracts is therefore another one, it is 827, and I am opening the debate on this issue and I ask Vice-President Filip to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly recapitulate why I rejected the Prime Minister's reply to my written intervention on the CETA and TTIP contracts that are being discussed between the European Union and therefore the Czech Republic and the United States of America, respectively. Canada. I was dissatisfied because the information that would be objectively submitted to the Czech public is extremely limited. I have turned to our MEP Kateřina Konečná, Jiří Maštálka and Jaromír Kohlíček to tell me how Members of the European Parliament are informed about these agreements in opposition to Europe, and they also have only a limited range of information that is there, referring to the fact that the parts that are being negotiated that are not yet completed are not yet published. I believe that the matter is very sensitive in this regard. Yesterday, by coincidence, we were discussing the subject of genetically modified food. And because it was a change of law, which was not directly related to the content itself, we adopted the amendment, of course, because it was a matter which was not factual, but rather procedural, and time, so of course it was our job to discuss the matter and to take a position on it, because we are working with genetically modified food. However, the problem is that if, for example, we were to have absolutely free trade in such foodstuffs in the CETA agreement, then our legislation would be essentially at risk, because Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic makes it clear that the international treaty in the hierarchy of legal standards is above the law, which means the obligations that we have accepted from an international legal point of view are just under the Constitution and they have priority over the application of the law of the Czech Republic. In this respect, this commitment, which the European Commission or the European Parliament will accept for the Czech Republic, could significantly change, for example, the standards of our food, our products, not only in the food industry, but also in other matters, because the issue of this standard is not sufficiently negotiated. That is why I believe it is important for citizens to be informed, not in a populist way, now I reject any accusations, but, in my view, the fact that the information is incomplete, that the position of the European Commission is not clear, it is not clear the position of the Czech Republic with which we are going, whether our standard is enforceable in that international treaty, is, in my view, essential information and I would like to hear it on a microphone in the Chamber of Deputies to become public information. This means what position the Czech Republic holds in this regard, how an expert team is composed for the Czech Republic, which negotiates this treaty in Europe, and whether the contract is to be negotiated by the end of the year or not. I understand that the CETA Treaty is a treaty that is running in a normal way, whereas the transatlantic Treaty, that is, between the United States of America and Europe, is in some way now in a state of nonnegotiation, given the forthcoming elections in the United States of America and outside, and because of elections in France and the Federal Republic of Germany. This means that everyone sees this as a relatively strong political charge, and we need to deal with it somehow. The fact that there are some rules in free trade that are not transcendable is obvious, and that what is not happening within the customs barriers is then done through the very relationship to quality, to standards that need to be respected. The Czech Republic has very, very sad experience with this. I note and remind my colleagues, especially those who are not directly in the field of law or food, or regarding military material, that when the then Federal Assembly of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic adopted the Commercial Code in 1991 and abolished, in fact, up to two paragraphs, the Economic Code, in particular, abolished the so-called basic conditions of supply. And what happened in 1992 and 1993 was more than, I'd say, the wild exit, as described by the most satirical pictures, whether on television or in cinemas or so on. It was said that tanks run across the border like cars and that only in 1994 we adopted a law on trade in military material. Only then came the concept of SVM, meaning a group of military materials according to which licenses were given. Before that, the licensing administration didn't work properly, and whoever had in the trade certificate that he had purchase and sale, could please in 1992 and 1993, now I'm a little attracted to doing business with the military material without anything. In 1993, the licensing administration began to work, and in 1994, Law No. 38 and it started to regulate something. The situation was even more complex in food, which I particularly care about, because as the basic conditions of supply were abolished, and this is the sad experience, of course also the standards that we were used to, that is, for basic foods, but also for other foods, they developed into the fact that the proportion of meat had decreased, no one wrote it anywhere, in sausages, sausages, sausages. What was done with walnut salad, for example, is a long description of the situation. When the first big affair took place in the 1990s, which concerned the corrupt food that was then sold in the ordinary store. Why am I putting it this wide? Because it is precisely the question of whether we will be able to maintain this European standard, or whether we will be forced to have another standard in food, especially in relation to genetically modified foods, that is what I refer to yesterday's debate, which, beyond that, was about the content of the amendment of the law. In this respect, the Prime Minister's reply seems inadequate, because in a way, the Prime Minister only technically answers me that we negotiate, that it is difficult and so on. So in this respect, I see the debate, I would say, as further concluded, as incorrect to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because in my opinion, we must at least have a basic framework. [[10.30 hours]] This means that we do not want to reduce any standard for food, for example, that we do not want to reduce any standard for toys for children, that we do not want to reduce any standard for supplies of building materials etc. Because once the contract is in force, it will apply in some standard that will have the framework of an international treaty. In this respect, I therefore ask the Prime Minister to answer my question rather from the positions held by the Czech Republic in this respect. If necessary, I'll ask you some additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u39	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, too, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u40	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would first of all like to say that, in my opinion, I have given Vice-President Filip the most comprehensive answer to his interpelation, including all the necessary documents and materials, which have been formulated in individual positions at the level of the government or ministries. I believe that the government of the Czech Republic has no reason to hide anything, and we are certainly trying to act as transparently as possible. And I think that, in a similar way, we are moving forward at EU level as such. This means that the Czech Government is one of the countries that are active in this direction. If there are any things that the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies considers Filip to be those that have not yet been made public and for which he requests publication, I would ask him if he specifically listed these facts, materials, positions, and we certainly do not resist any possible degree of transparency. We are also prepared to discuss all parameters of the upcoming contracts. I think this is happening at the level of the relevant working groups at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And I want to stress again, repeatedly, no one is forcing us to close something that might not be advantageous for the Czech Republic. This will simply be our sovereign decision whether to conclude when it is clear what conditions have been negotiated, whether or not we will join this agreement as the Czech Republic. Neither Canada, and I suppose, nor the United States, nor the European Commission will force us to accept the conditions, if we regard them from any point of view, from any point of view, as something that would make conditions worse for our citizens, make conditions worse for our companies, reduce any standards that we are used to here in the Czech Republic, which we consider to be good and optimal from the point of view of our country. On the other hand, as we have evaluated, for example, the opportunities and potential of the agreement with Canada, which is being prepared, there are a number of very interesting opportunities for our companies, which will bring up to 99% of the elimination of customs duties, such as industrial products. This means there are things that could help us significantly in terms of our exports, and I consider the Canadian market to be quite interesting for the Czech Republic. So I don't think we should be prejudiced, we shouldn't be naive at the same time. Everyone defends their interest very hard. We as the Czech Government defend the Czech Republic's hard interest, the EU defends the EU's hard interest in these negotiations, the Canadian Government defends its interest, and so does the United States Government defend the interests of US taxpayers. Therefore, these negotiations last for many years, they are not at all simple and we will see if we can overcome all the obstacles that lie on this path. However, I warn you that other parts of the world do not expect integration in the area of reducing customs barriers, expanding the possibilities of mutual trade. This means that Europe cannot remain completely in place. We also need to monitor what is happening in Asia, what is happening between America and Asia in terms of concluding trade agreements, and we cannot get into a situation where European companies, Czech companies would be put at a disadvantage precisely by Europe not being part of the liberalisation of international trade and it will mean customs barriers to us and, for example, for our competitors from other parts of the world, this will not mean customs barriers to imports into these countries. So we have to be careful here. Let me remind you that we are a country that is dependent on exports. Unfortunately, we do not have such a large domestic market as some other countries and we depend on the fact that we have to more or less export most of our goods and services that we are able to produce, organize, prepare here in the Czech Republic. It is precisely because we are an export-oriented country, precisely because we do not want to be dependent solely on the EU market, that we are interested in diversifying our exports. And naturally, not only are we looking east and south to Asia, but we are also looking definitely to North and South America, we are also looking to Canada, and from this point of view we cannot ignore the positive and potentially positive effects of reducing these customs barriers between Europe and Canada and Europe and the United States. However, I want to assure the Chamber of Deputies, if there are any concrete suggestions, doubts about any specific standards, regulations, parameters that will affect the quality of goods imported mainly into the Czech Republic, if there is any conflict with the interests of Czech citizens, we will naturally respond to this during the negotiation process. What I think is a bit of a problem is that according to the research carried out in the Czech Republic, in principle about 80 percent of the population is not interested in information about negotiations on these agreements. This means the Ministry of Industry is trying to publish this information, but the public has a little different priorities at the moment, and information about these two agreements is not one of the most frequently sought by our citizens. In this I must say that the situation in our country differs, for example, from Austria or Germany, where the debate on these contracts is much more intense also from a broader point of view to the general public. In our country, this remains rather a matter of professional debate organised by the responsible authorities, partly by the political debate held in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate. But I want to declare the government's helpfulness, the openness of the government. We are ready to provide the Chamber of Deputies with any information and any evidence relating to the positions of the Government of the Czech Republic, the mandate on the basis of which our negotiators are moving towards Canada and towards the United States towards the EU on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u41	Thank you, too. I ask in the context of an open debate - yes. Please, Vice-President. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say that the Prime Minister is trying to say here that we are actually making a responsible move, but of course the problem is the one that I indicated in the first part about how we are progressing. He says we don't want to get rid of the reduction in standards. Then I will explain why I spoke for so long in the opening words, and I reminded myself of 1991 and 1992. By 1991 benzoic acid was banned in the Czech Republic, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. We haven't banned her since that year as a conservant. It is not in any other documents, as was the case with the basic conditions of delivery, it is no longer! It's normally preserved with mineral water. But that's a huge carcinogen! Nothing! It's just the Prime Minister says we're protecting the standard that we have here, but we've lowered one ourselves. Or one - I can name another. Once again, when I said about acid, I can say about sweets - acesulfam K, which replaces aspartams and saccharins. Of course, this is also a fundamental question of the amount of what is allowed there. It's not a thing that can go away in a debate that we can somehow simplify here. [[10.40 hours]] And I note that it is not enough for me, forgive me, it is not enough for me to guarantee that we do not lower our standards when they are actually reduced. And that CETA contract would have been reduced. If the TTIP is not closed, of course, those large multinational corporations in the United States of America will transfer their headquarters through Canada, and they will simply get it here through the CETEA contract. We're not naive to think it's something so complicated in the United States of America and Canada. But I, Prime Minister, allow myself additional questions that did not come from your answer. How does the Government of the Czech Republic prepare an analysis of the impact of the adoption of the CETA or TTIP on agricultural production? That, in my opinion, is crucial. This concerns the genetically modified foods. The second supplementary question, which doesn't follow from your answer, or I haven't learned anything about it. What will be the modified arbitration system proposed by the Commission, which represents the emergence of a new judicial system that will be over national courts. What this will mean for the system of subsidiarity of the judicial system in the European Union. I myself was part of the large panel at the time of the Austrian Presidency on the subsidiarity of the judicial system that took place in Austria. Then there was another conference in Sweden, because subsidiarity, which means that we accept the decisions of the courts of individual European Union countries within the European Union, that is what it is. But there will be a supranational court that will have no support in the decision-making of national judicial institutions. And that doesn't come from that. So really, whether they disrupt the system or not, they don't violate the principle of subsidiarity. The third additional question. At the seminars held by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which you mentioned - I am glad that it organized them. It is also a question of whether there is even a public debate on this and whether it would not be appropriate for the government to organise the public debate. Supporters and critics of the treaty were not represented in proportion to inform citizens and the business public. I'm not taking it right now, just that it can damage the citizens. I think it can seriously damage Czech business entities. It is enough how we deal, virtually. We do not deal with what a European patent is and what a patent right is, whether we can apply the Czech patent at any time in the European Union, with the fact that patent protection is from the moment it is registered with the Czech Patent Office. You know, we had a rather strong argument here during the debate on the European patent across the House, and it wasn't a left-right debate, it was factual. I think that one-sidedness needs to be eliminated, that it is a matter of government to say what the risks are and what the government's position is. The fourth additional question is whether the expert team has unilaterally informed about the MIT's positions. How will you change the nature of this team so that opponents' objections and proposals are incorporated into the positions that the Czech Republic will promote when negotiating? And the fifth additional question to the TTIP. Why and on the basis of what analysis does the Czech Republic promote greater openness to American import in terms of both the Czech Republic and the European Union, when it is a net exporter to the US? More products will be delivered before they arrive. What advantage does the Czech Republic see in this? With regard to the CETA, which is probably closest to negotiation, on the basis of which debates and analyses are there only two commodities between protected geographical indicators, namely Czech beer and zatec hops? Do we really not have another commodity to negotiate with that Canada? I'm proud of Czech beer. Finally, I am from České Budějovice and both breweries are world famous and Budvar is a brand. Among other things, we still haven't finished the negotiations proposed by the Minister of Agriculture to free Budvar's national business from the senseless legal obligation imposed on him. a register of contracts that harm public undertakings against private undertakings. And once again, we've never had anything like this here before, so we're legally obliged to give more to public corporations here than to solar barons. It's already incredible what we're doing here! And how does the Government of the Czech Republic intend to inform about the CETA agreement? What kind of approval within the European Union in the Czech Republic, and why? And what is the Czech Republic's position on arbitration that does not meet the conditions laid down by the European Parliament in its resolution 2014/2228-INI, and what steps does it intend to take? And what - and this is the most fundamental question - is the analysis of other possible impacts by the government of the Czech Republic. Don't be mad at me. I understand that as part of a written interpelation, I'm here seeking a debate that just doesn't go public here. But there is no other chance, though, because we have never opened up a debate here about the Czech position in this matter, and so I have nothing left but to do it by writing an interview with the information I have also received from the European Parliament. So these follow-up questions, Prime Minister, if you would answer me. At this point, I can only suggest that I really ask the Chamber of Deputies not to accept your reply by answering these additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u43	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u44	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think that we should certainly not resist the debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will also ask Vice-President Filip, the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jan Mládek, in cooperation with the Economic Committee and the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, to hold a seminar on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies on the CETA Treaty, because here I think there is something to discuss. We have a proposal here. The negotiations were essentially completed in 2014 and at this point we are facing an approval process. We, like the Czech Republic, held that this is a mixed agreement, which means that individual Member States, their national parliaments, should comment on it. I therefore expect that, as regards the approval of CETA, this is the agreement with Canada, so that, after the European Council has expressed its opinion on it, the European Parliament will, of course, also comment on it by the parliaments of the individual Member States of the European Union. This means that this Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will also comment on this Treaty and will be the subject of discussion on the ground of this Chamber of Deputies. But I think we should start the debate as soon as possible. I would suggest we carry out a seminar and ask the Ministry of Industry and Trade to take charge of it. I also thank you for the specific questions and comments that have been made in the oral questioning. I will ask that the response and response be prepared for Vice-President Filip on the individual areas to which he has now asked additional questions. In any case, we will only vote in favour of the treaty and support it if it does not harm Czech citizens and Czech companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Pilný, now duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I feel the need to comment on this as Chairman of the Economic Committee. Firstly, the TTIP Treaty is on the ice, not only because of the US party where the administration is changing, but also because there are embarrassments about the ratification of the treaty that is more important to the United States, and that is the Treaty with Asia. It is also on ice in Europe because we have completely different concerns. CETA is a little further, but on the other hand, if we look at it as a process of ratification of individual national parliaments, I suppose what was mentioned here and what had nothing to do with these treaties means reducing the standard of food with carcinogens, we'll die on them before these agreements are concluded. Our agriculture is dying, but it is not because the TTIP agreement is being prepared, but because there is a senseless system of subsidies that simply threatens us. These things just don't belong here. [[10.50 hours]] As far as information is concerned, I do not know why to complain about the lack of information, rather not interested in it. I do not know how many other Members receive regular reports almost a week of developments in this area of TTIP. The negotiators come here, the embassy, including the U.S., have sources of information. It's not a secret. Information's just normally available. Rather, I don't think they're interested, and it's quite justified, because it really doesn't bother us. However, I just want to say that Europe must conclude these agreements if it does not want to lose its competitiveness altogether. It is also a problem for the Czech Republic. Because we are part of Europe and we are an export-oriented economy. I don't see any major problems in the treaty as it was negotiated. So far, we have had illusions that it will improve the access of Czech companies to the American market. This seems very unlikely, because the US market in this area of public procurement is not regulated federally, but is regulated by individual states, even municipalities. That's a fairly fundamental problem that I just see there. Other problems, including with regard to standards and genetically modified matters, are things - protests are taking place in Germany and elsewhere. If this is a problem for us, I think it will be addressed at a level that is considerably higher. I do not feel, and I think that nobody in Parliament may feel little informed about these contracts, because information is widely available. The question is whether it is our priority at this point, and it also expresses our interest. But the information is here, and it's not really something that we should be dealing with right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u47	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. If this is not the case, then I am done with the debate. Vice-President Filip has proposed a resolution, and that is that the Chamber of Deputies does not accept the Prime Minister's reply. Isn't that right, Mr. Vice-President? Okay. In that case, I will vote on the motion for this resolution. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 102. 108 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 21, against 35. This proposal was rejected. I'm done discussing this interpellation. I'm opening another interpellation. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka replied to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interview on the position of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing of 864. I am opening a debate with the Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I respect the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, when it is no longer necessary to deal with the original interpelation, but also at this point I thank the Prime Minister that he has promised before the Chamber of Deputies that supplementary questions will be prepared at the Ministry of Industry and Trade and that the Chamber of Deputies will therefore learn them. I will be happy to have them sent in writing, and we can use them for the promised seminar of the Economic and Agricultural Committee. Now, allow me to comment on the second interview, where I rejected the Prime Minister's reply. You know, I deliberately didn't involve the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman for his visit to the summit of the Sudeten German Union, because I could have considered it his private journey, he doesn't have any secrets about having nice compatriots in his quotes. In this respect, I've known him as South for a long time, it didn't seem appropriate for two reasons. First of all, no member of the Government of the Czech Republic has ever participated in anything like this since 1993, and, according to the reaction of Berndt Posselt and other representatives of the Sudeten German Union, this was indeed a historic event for them. I have already pointed out when the Prime Minister visited Bavaria that, of course, Berndt Posselt will find a way to appear in some photographs with the Prime Minister in his political activity. He did it to Prime Minister Nečas, he did it to Prime Minister Sobotka, and I was wondering if the Prime Minister knew if it was with his consent and if it was really meant to be an expression that he was an acceptable partner for us. Why do I say it like that? It's a sorority. Forgive me, it is the same association as the union of expelled citizens of the Czech Republic from the borderlands in 1938. This is a partner of the Sudeten German Union in the Czech Republic, not the government of the Czech Republic or any minister of the Government of the Czech Republic. If we raise the level of representation at any association's reunion by being visited by ministers, then of course the expression of political weight is completely different. What am I worried about? That the entire amendment to the statutes of this association is no longer amended. I pointed out in the interview that what they seem to have removed means a permanent requirement for the return of property in the Czech Republic, that although they had voted, they had it registered with the Federal Court in such a way that the court rejected it. So the statutes of the Sudeten German Association are further along as they have been since the 1950s. This means that there is a permanent requirement and property claims against the Czech Republic. I can't imagine anyone who wants to keep their constitutional promise to stick to the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic and work for the citizens of the Czech Republic will participate in the annual Assembly of the Association, which attacks the constitutional and legal basis of property regimes in the Czech Republic! I'm not going to evaluate strange statements here, and I'm putting it in quotes because I'm going to have to use other expressions that were said at the reunion. It means that the right to property exists here, that we took it away from them and so on. This is an absolutely perverse view of the outcome of World War II! If it is decisive for us, and so was the state of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the Czech Republic since 1993, that all property conditions have been evolving and any changes since February 25, 1948, not since May 9, 10, 1945. In that case, I'm sorry, we would have to return not only before 1938, but at least to 1919, if not to 1620! In this respect, I fundamentally reject any reconciliation with the fact that someone will deny the Czech rule of law and that it is possible to reverse property conditions in the Czech Republic. It's not just about the state, it's about the physical, legal and property that went through privatization, restitutions that went through here, of course, after nationalization, by being handed over into private hands. [[11.00 hours]] In this respect, I must say that this visit has upset not only the citizens exiled in the 38th of the border of the Czech Republic. Remember that beautiful Czechoslovak movie The Train of Happiness and Hope.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u49	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u50	I'm sorry, I really can't help but stress why I was interested in the Prime Minister's position, why I didn't care about the Minister of Culture's position. I probably won't have to finish this interpellation until next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u51	Yes, that's right. I thank you for respecting your time and interrupting your interpellation, including the Prime Minister's reply to it, because we have run out of time for the Prime Minister's interpelation. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now focus on the fixed points, which is 249 and 216. It is the House Press 4792 and the House Press 832. [[document]] News. We would then discuss points from the block of the Treaty first and second reading, or points from the blocks of the Report, proposals and other points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. We'll discuss point 260 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. I'll read the apologies that have arrived. For personal reasons, on Thursday, 8 September, Mr Votava apologizes. Furthermore, from 9 to 15 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr František Vácha apologizes. Furthermore, from 12.00 to the end of the day, Mr Petr Fiala apologizes. Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 12 o'clock for reasons of work. Mr Pavel Plzák apologizes from 9 to 13 o'clock for reasons of work. I have here an application to amend the agenda of the meeting which Mr Seďa has. [[To Mr Glass:]] Will you take advantage of your priority right, Mr. Chairman? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u52	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to propose two amendments to the agenda. The first concerns paragraph 211, House press 564, which is the government's proposal for an amendment to the conflict of interest law to put it firmly on Wednesday 14 September as the first point. The second amendment concerns paragraph 204, House press 887, which is to agree to ratify the amendment of the International Convention on Doping in Sport. Please place this point on Thursday, September 15th for fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u53	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite embarrassed about this, but I would like to ask you for a solid inclusion of point No. 90 - Proposal for a bill on compensation for loss of employment for political reasons between 1948 and 1989 for former professional soldiers and employees of the Department of Defence, House press 378, on this Friday 9. 9. for the already fixed points. I have two reasons for a firm assignment. The first is the fact that I proposed three times and the Chamber of Deputies agreed to a firm inclusion by completing the first reading of this press, but it never happened for time reasons. The first reading of the bill was interrupted on 23 October last year. And the second reason is that members of the Military Association of Rehabilitated, who, at the age of over 80, are still waiting for this rather moral compensation, so their number is constantly decreasing by death. Thank you in advance for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u55	Thank you. In addition, Mr Kolovratník is the member of the agenda for the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u56	Colleagues and colleagues, I wish you good morning. I'm actually going to be here in front of you in a double role as a representative of the electoral media committee, and then as a representative of the electoral committee, and I'm going to ask you to vote off - it's more or less a technical matter - three points from the agenda. First of all, we ask Martin Komárek, in agreement with the President of the Election Committee, for the elimination of the House's press 863, it is the Annual Report on the Activity and Management of the Czech News Agency in 2015. And then we would like to disable the House Press 806, the annual report on the activities of the RRTV in 2015. The reason is simple. We have not yet discussed these two reports on the committee. That means we couldn't bring you a report, the committee won't be meeting for another 14 days. So we're assuming that we're ready for the October meeting. So once again, the elimination of 863 and 806 Houses of Press. And then, on behalf of the electoral commission, I'm asking for the elimination of the ballot point, it's now after number 223. It is a proposal to appoint a member of the Radio and Television Council. I ask you to remove this point here because, in agreement at the request of my colleagues, I have extended the deadline for nominations, for proposals, the deadline is until Monday 26. 9. So even at this point, we're going to assume that the elections wouldn't take place until the October meeting. Therefore, discard the proposal to appoint a member of the Radio and Television Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-001-259.u57	I thank you and ask if anyone else is applying to change the agenda of the meeting. I don't see anyone else. If no one is proposing a change to the programme, I will put it to a vote on individual points. So, first of all, we will consider the proposals made by President Sklenák. This suggests that point No. 211, House Press 564, the conflict of interest law, was firmly placed on Wednesday 14. 9. as the first point. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 103, 124 Members and Members registered, for proposal 75, against 28. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Second proposal - in order for paragraph 204, the House press 887 to be included on Thursday 15. 9. on fixed points. It's consent to the ratification of the sport contract. I can find it for you, but that's what it was said. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 104, 125 Members are registered, for proposal 106, against 1. This proposal has also been agreed with. We will now consider the proposal to amend the programme presented by Mr Seďa. It concerns paragraph 90, which is compensation for loss of employment for political reasons. This item should be included this Friday 9. 9. on fixed points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 105, with 125 Members registered, for proposal 67, against 10. The proposal has also been approved. We also have three proposals from Mr Kolovratník on the elimination of points. First of all, we will vote on the elimination of House Press item 863, which is the annual report of the Czech News Agency for 2015. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 106, registered 127 Members, for proposal 112, against no one. I am of the opinion that consent has been given and that point has been eliminated. Furthermore, we will vote on the elimination of the 806, which is the Annual Report of the Radio and Television Council for 2015. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a 107-order vote, 127 Members and Members registered, for proposal 108, against no one. This proposal has also been agreed with. [[11.10 hours]] As a last item, the proposal to eliminate paragraph 223 is the choice of a member for radio and television... paragraph 214, I'm sorry, I wrote the wrong number. So the elimination of paragraph 214 is the choice of a member of the Radio and Television Council. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 108. 128 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 109, against no one. I note that this proposal has also been approved. This dealt with proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. I'll read the other apologies that came to me. Today, Mr Andrle apologizes from the meeting for the doctor's visit. Furthermore, from 9 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Nytrová apologises. Furthermore, from 9 to 14 o'clock, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes from urgent work duties at the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Kolovratník will be voting today with replacement card No. 22. We will now consider the first item in today's meeting and this is
