ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended /German press 304/7/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 304/8. I welcome Senator Miroslav Antl among us and I ask that Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, after discussing this bill in the Senate, there have been two major changes to the proposal. The first is that the criminal liability of legal persons is further extended to the crime of participation in suicide, since most senators have concluded that at least theoretically it is possible that a legal person might commit such a crime and have seen no reason in the Senate not to import that responsibility in such a case. The second amendment concerns the unfortunate relevance. In particular, this is the issue of the last paragraph, which said that a legal person with criminal liability pursuant to paragraph 1. Where it has made any effort which could reasonably be required to prevent the commission of an offence by the persons referred to in paragraph 1, it shall withdraw from the person referred to in paragraph 1. That is, what the Chamber of Deputies agreed or the Constitutional Committee agreed with the petitioner, respectively. with the Justice Department as some compromise solution before. I will not be too tired for long, because I assume that Senator Antl, in particular, is probably giving a detailed explanation of both proposals, so I am just saying for myself that both proposals or in particular the second proposal return the text closer to what we originally proposed from the Ministry. On the other hand, I must say that the amendment, which is being interrupted by this, had our careful support, I have always said. So I quite see it as the only serious solution to take a neutral position on this, because I think both options are going to be good options from my professional point of view. At this point, everything and more, if necessary, in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the committees want to speak gradually about the amendments tabled by the Senate? [[Yes.]] First, a guarantee constitutional law committee - Mrs Marie Benešová. Please, madam. The rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr František Laudát, will be prepared if he is interested. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u4	Dear colleagues, I would just like to point out that, as far as § 8 is concerned, it is not about ethical codes, as the newspapers write, but it is about the greater responsibility of prosecutors to obtain all the evidence, including those which are in favour of those legal firms. This does not mean that they are automatically developed unless it is proven that efforts have not been made. So it's up to you, i.e. virtually. to all of us, as we decide. And I would just like to point out that the media are confusing the public in this regard when they do this, and that our aim was not to allow any development of legal persons to have better conditions, but we were dealing with a year's stalemate in the Constitutional Legal Committee, where the law basically stuck, we were looking for an optimal compromise solution. We had two expert analyses of top professors that we relied on and based on. So I, if I may speak for myself, will support the parliamentary version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur, Marie Benešová. I ask if the rapporteur of the Economic Committee is interested in Mr František Laudát. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. As far as the Economic Committee is concerned, that's where it turned out, which I said here at the first hearing. Now I'm going to say top 09. From Parliament to the House, on the one hand, under the guise of wanting to fight corruption, but more or less, it is a bullying law that Minister Pelikán has expanded the spectrum of what companies can be accused of, so you sent it along with the fact that, at the same time, it affects several individuals, who has a problem with this law, so you have effectively castrated it and all it will be is that there will be slander by legal persons among themselves. That's the only thing. TOP 09 did not support the law as a whole in voting in the House, nor will it support the original version, nor the new version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening up a debate. In the debate, Senator Miroslav Antl will be the first to speak. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, the Senate has decided to return the law in question to the lower chamber of the Czech Parliament for precisely the two reasons stated by the honourable Minister of Justice. You have the justification I sent before you. And since you are reading faster, sharper, I would like only a few comments on what happened in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and especially on the reasons why we decided to return the matter. Otherwise, I would like to state that the reasoning, if you look at it, is impersonal and I would say very helpful from my point of view. We have dealt with five amendments, and in the end we have adopted two. The one of the five we didn't accept involved a crime of slander. Yesterday I took part in 90 ČT24 and felt like a perpetrator, because the media are filing the law as a denial of freedom of speech, and that we are actually admitting the criminality of slander and legal persons. And because I felt like the perpetrator and wanted to evolve, I looked at the vote that happened with you, and I found out that out of 171 Members 161 voted in favour and no one opposed. Following this crime, we propose not to exclude the possibility of criminal sanctions on a legal person as well as the crime of participation in suicide, which is referred to in Section 144 of the Criminal Code, and basically the objective aspect tells us that the perpetrator of another person is going to commit suicide or to help another person commit suicide. Personally, I can well imagine a case that could happen, even from the point of view of the criminal liability of a legal person. I believe that, in principle, such a case is not excluded. Moreover, if we look at the crime, respectively. an offence of slander, and if we look into Section 144 of the Criminal Code, in the second paragraph, we will find a criminal, in quotes a criminal, criminal rate, that means an eight-year penalty rate if the offence is committed in relation to a child or a pregnant woman. And the third paragraph even defines bipartition as a particularly serious crime, which means five to twelve years in prison. Otherwise, here we draw attention to the case of France Telecom, which has been solved, and we leave to you, respectively. we intercede for you to decide that this crime respectively. its criminality should fall within the catalogue of criminal offences relating to a legal person. As far as the second amendment is concerned, it is indeed Paragraph 8 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law in question, which gives the legal person the opportunity to release himself from criminal liability, provided that it has made every effort which could reasonably be required to prevent the commission of an infringement. I would like to say that such a provision goes against the Government's intention to tighten criminal sanctions on legal persons, because this criminal sanctions not only crashes, but I think it denies the sense of criminal sanctions on legal persons. I refer again to the justification you have before you. I am convinced, after consulting law enforcement authorities, that the creation of so-called criminal society programs, that is, a kind of anti-corruption code or code of ethics and so on, could develop legal entities, and now I am not talking about employees, there § 8 para. 2 (b) actually gives the opportunity to develop employees, but it would be extended to statutory bodies or other persons in the leading position, etc., as you have completed the § 8 para. 2 of the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons. So expansion outside the employee or a person in a similar position. I do these people in mine - not in mine, sorry, sorry. In its reasoning, the Senate calls these persons a shortcut to the lead. And we believe that this provision could indeed mean stopping criminal prosecution in the most serious economic, virtually. economic or property matters, I mean media cases, I do not want to mention them here, but these are particularly serious crimes of damage to the European Union's financial interests, subsidy fraud and other similar criminal activities. I am not just based on my practice and I am not based on my legal opinion, but I have the position of the Union of Prosecutors at my disposal, I will not read it to you if you do not want to. I also consulted with Mrs. State Attorney General in Prague, Dr. Lenka Bradáčová, who is in charge of the Department of Economic and Financial Crime of the Supreme Prosecutor in quotation marks and whose opinion I very much appreciate. But I also consulted the President of the Supreme Court, Professor Pavel Šámal, who gave me his written opinion and also said that this provision goes against the meaning of the entire law on criminal liability of legal persons. [[17.50 hours]] Once again, with reference to the written reasoning, I am very much in favour of you considering the Senate proposal to support it, although I know that the agreement is different, yet I would like to draw attention to the fact that the court should always decide about guilt or innocence, not the legislators. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. [[Snapping in Speech]] Sorry to stutter, but I've chosen too complicated a line. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Senator. With a point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec, who was duly registered by Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Evening, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to get this straight. Could you ask Mrs Benešová what parliamentary version she meant? Because she said the parliamentary version, and Parliament, in my opinion, is the House and the Senate. So I'd like to hear it on the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u11	For working reasons, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes from now until the end of today's meeting day and now duly signed up Mrs Helena Válková, after whom Mr Hovorka. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u12	Mr President, my dear colleagues, on this late evening I would still like to take a little quasi-historical excursion. When I came to the position of Minister of Justice and I was confronted with repeated proposals to extend the list of criminal offences for which I could have been prosecuted by a legal person, I would also have liked to say in front of a parentheses, a follow-up to the law on criminal liability of legal persons at the time, because I am more of a traditionalist - so I am in consultation with those top experts, Professor Šámal, President of the criminal college, doktor Púry and others, to conclude that it would be better to follow the pattern of foreign legislation in the direction that we expose legal persons to criminal penalties if they behave in a way that prohibits the criminal code for all acts, except those which will be calculated, because we have assumed that the list will not be amended repeatedly, it will be better to follow the pattern of foreign legislation in the same way as in the same group. That's what really happened. After that, I quit my position as Minister of Justice, not for this reason, and I followed the debate on this law further within the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have also faced strong criticism at the Ministry that we criminalize disproportionately companies and legal entities, which in the Czech Republic will therefore be exposed in fact to the danger that almost any crime, unless it is ruled out, such as. the coitus between relatives, war crimes, etc., which are calculated in this section 7, may be prosecuted. We have waited a long time, several months, and after repeated warnings, we received a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, and even within the Constitutional Legal Committee, we have dealt with this very question, whether there is too much criminalisation or possibility of criminalization and whether it is not contrary to the old principle, which says that criminal law should always be the last resort, ultima ratio, when other legal sectors have already failed, e.g. financial law, penalties by means of high fines granted by the Financial Office, etc. And we have come to the conclusion that the situation that, on the one hand, will face the risk of constant amendments, so that we will leave the possibility of punishing a legal person for crimes to a significantly wider extent than it was before or before the amendment, but on the other hand, we will also put an insurance policy within which we can justify such conduct if the legal person proves that he has done everything possible to ensure that the crime does not take place in the course of all the efforts that can be reasonably requested from him. And we didn't really discuss that once. I am convinced that the current text, which - and I will say this for Mrs Benešová, by your means, Mr Vice-President, will happen that one will slip, it also happens to me - that is, the House version in the form in which it was presented, I think it will combine the two elements. On the one hand, why save a legal person, when some crimes and particularly serious crimes may be committed, on the other hand, let us give her a fair opportunity to prove to us that she has done everything within her specific character of a legal person, so that the crime does not occur, and then let us not criminalize it. So I am very much in favour of accepting the version sent by the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate, and of not going the way that the High Prosecutors, the Union of Prosecutors - I do not blame them, they will make their work easier - and which is actually being led by the effort to establish various specialised trade unions to investigate and prosecute serious economic crime without being under control, see the current bill of the Public Prosecutor's Act. That's one line. So I would appeal very much to not giving one legal lobby the green light, to look at it really soberly with cold eyes, and to balance the justice when on the one hand, we put the risk of punishing almost all the crimes of a legal person, and on the other hand, we give her the opportunity to prove convincingly that she did everything she could to prevent the crime, and if that happened, it is the responsibility of a natural person, the particular individual who failed. I think that this solution would be fair, and that is why I am intercede for it. As for the amendment to participate in suicide, which could, of course, be there, I agree with Senator Antl, but it is precisely in line with the principle of economics of criminal repression that I think it is not such a matter for which we should give up the much more substantial one that I spoke about in the first part of my speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u13	Thank you, Madame Válková. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u14	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I remember very well that the Czech Republic has been rightly criticized in the past for not having an adjusted criminal liability of legal persons. Finally, in previous parliamentary periods, it has been enshrined in our legal order. I believe that if the text which is in the Chamber of Deputies passes, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 § 8, so the law will basically be disqualified. Basically, it will be useless and, as such, it can be dismissed as ineffective from our legal order. Therefore, I very much intercede for this law to be passed in the wording as sent to us by the Senate. Which is why I would like to ask you to support the Senate version of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u15	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly registered member is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, as mentioned, the Senate version modified the parliamentary version on two points. I think that colleagues sitting on the Constitutional Legal Committee should admit that the crime of participating in suicide, Section 144, just fell out and that Section 7 is not supposed to be there. This means that even a legal person should have criminal responsibility for participating in suicide. I think that the Senate has demonstrated to us and to our reasons, and I have to admit, after the debate with Senator Antl, that I can easily imagine such a deed and course of action, and I think that it may not be that long and that our law enforcement authorities will judge such negotiations. Period. I'd rather not go into details. So the Senate here is right. And I'd say let's support the Senate version. The second contested act, which is imputability, respectively. This shall be developed in § 8 para. 5 proposals. In the constitutional committee, as mentioned, we had a broad debate on this, whether yes, or not, after a broad debate, I too voted in favour of the development. But I still had the imaginary question mark on it, whether I was doing the right thing. If I look at our criminal law, we have it formal, and it's the concept of a crime, and the court decides that it's guilty. And here we are giving this opportunity to the prosecutor, an authority active in criminal proceedings. I think Senator Antl has said this very well that we should not interfere in this court and about criminal liability, whether a particular legal person is or is not criminally responsible for the crime, whether an offence or a crime, should be decided by the court. After a thorough knowledge of the Senate's material, I am leaning towards the fact that I, and I presume that most of the MP's club, will support the Senate version, but if it fails, we will vote in favour of the version that came from here in the Chamber of Deputies. But I point out that we made a mistake in Section 7, participating in suicide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u17	I thank Mr Ondráček. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda, followed by Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u18	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, there are still some left over, ladies and gentlemen, for my speech I was provoked first by the incredibly alibiistic position of the Minister of Justice - I am in favour of everything and I don't care, and secondly by Senator Antl, President of the Senate Constitutional Legal Committee, whom I respect otherwise, but I think that unfortunately it is a typical example of how law enforcement should not sit in the legislature and how much danger it creates because their view of the world is different. First of all, I consider complete nonsense what is sometimes presented here and claimed that some anti-corruption codes or something like that have something to do with liberating, virtually. to develop, as approved by the Constitutional Committee. Second of all, she's already suggested it here, Professor Válková. Criminal law is ultima ratio. He's only supposed to intervene when we can't handle disputes through another law. Mostly civilian. And now I'm warning you, and I said it here in the debate at the third reading last time. Pursuant to the new Civil Code, damage from operating activities, which is typically the activity of a legal person, is liable for damage, unless - unless - the obligation is waived by a legal person, if it proves that he has taken all care that can reasonably be required to avoid damage. So I, in a civil dispute on the basis of this provision, will absolve myself of liability for damage, but the prosecutors want to continue prosecuting me for a crime? It doesn't make any sense. It's supposed to be completely backwards! I prosecute those things that I can first say are real damage to someone else. And when I have the opportunity to evolve in a civil trial, no one can think that I'm being prosecuted. This is really only the view of convicts, for whom it is easiest to keep everyone away, but not the view of a rational person, a rational view of the matter. And what lifted me up to Mr. Senator Antl's performance because he's repeated it for the sixth time - the court is to decide the guilt, not the legislator. And now this place has been perfected by Mr. Ondráček, who I will return to again. Well, it's true that the court decides on guilt and punishment under the Charter. However, according to the same Charter in Art. 39 only the law sets out which act is a criminal offence and what penalty, as well as other harm to the rights, may be imposed for its commission. Lawmakers decide what is a crime. They can't rule the courts! They're not allowed to judge. Unlike many other areas of law, the criminal justice court has no opportunity to follow an analogy, and it is a two thousand-year-old principle, since Roman law. Only legislators decide exactly what is a criminal offence, what the conditions for committing a crime are. It's their absolute duty, and it has nothing to do with the trial. And then the court has, based on what crimes are set, to say, he and he either committed it or didn't. And let's not get into this at all, and that's more of a request to a colleague of Ondráček, let's not get involved in this at all, whether he's going to decide the state's attorney, the law enforcement authority, or the court. This has nothing to do with material law, what is and what is not a crime, at all. This has only to do with the extent to which a criminal trial can stop a criminal prosecution. But it doesn't have anything to do with the material law that's laid down. That would be a general call for the police not to stop, the state's attorneys must not stop, they must always sue, and then let the court decide. But it has nothing to do with how we lay down the principles of criminal law. There's only one word here. The legislator is determined that if the legal person did not do this as a targeted action aimed at it - by the way, who remembers the first debates on the criminal activities of legal persons, everyone brought it to us, so it is necessary to start prosecuting crimes, especially the promotion of terrorism, especially the raising of money for terrorists, where you have no natural persons, there is a need to start confiscating money from all sorts of suspicious foundations. Those were the hundreds of arguments that came from the world. And all of a sudden, we're pretending that when a person in a multinational corporation in any leadership position, she takes something about herself, that corporation has nothing to do with it, only that person has the advantage, so it's necessary to get out and close the corporation. [[18.10 hours]] I find it completely pointless. I think that this provision really is in line with the principles of our law. And I even think that it is consistent with what is required of prosecuting the criminal activity of legal entities where the legal person has some benefits. Where he was consciously aware of all the knowledge that the legal person had no knowledge, but where he was involved. And not where someone cheated on her in this way, and then she rejoices that she won't be punished for it. I very much ask that if we support any version, we support the version that came from this Chamber of Deputies. The version that came out of the Senate is a complete mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u19	I thank Mr Benda. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear Senator. I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Senator for the subtlety he has shown here. From what I heard, when the law was discussed on the Senate Constitutional Legal Committee, it was not so measured, and to the authors of the original amendment perhaps even, and I hope that my source, who was sitting on the Constitutional Legal Committee, did not lie to me, I believe, he added some corrupt intentions to this report. So I'm very sorry. Hopefully there'll be some room to explain it in some way. I'll start a little wide. The amendment was discussed on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee - I don't know if nine, ten, eleven months, almost a year. It was completely transparent here. It was discussed with the participation of sometimes journalists, sometimes lawyers, sometimes representatives of other legal professions. But there were never those that Senator Antl was talking about. That means prosecutors. Then in December, when finally our amendment was approved, I read in the Lidové noviny that Members put provisions in the law of criminal liability of legal entities, which means that when a code of ethics is written somewhere, that the company is automatically developed. That is, of course, nonsense. So it's against it - and none of you are to blame. It's the Lidové noviny, which also didn't understand what it was about. I just don't want to do business because Professor Válková explained it here and after her, Marek Benda. But, of course, about some kind of automatic development in the sense that the company will write some sort of code of ethics that it has some kind of program, of course it isn't. [[unintelligible]] The court will always decide the guilt in the finals. And yes, as my colleague Benda said, by law or by law, which we will approve here. To me and Senator Antl, and otherwise I like him, we both Východočech Bohemia, pissed off by saying: I consulted Mrs. Bradáčová about this. I'm glad. But Mrs. Bradáčová is not the one who should somehow interpret the law or say what is right. Of course he has an opinion. But on the other hand, we have e.g. The members of the Constitutional Committee discussed this with, for example, Professor Gřivna or Professor Jelínek. I don't know which of these people is the greater capacity or who has the greater right to the truth or who understands it more. But one thing's for sure. Mrs Bradáčová is in conflict of interest because this concerns her area, and law school professors are at least smaller in conflict of interest. So I would say that the argument made by Senator Antl - you know my opinion on State Reconstruction - is exactly the same. If the contract register law is approved, it'll be better. When the State's Attorney's Act is passed, preferably as it goes from the government, without us being able to afford an amendment here, because that's just a speech... I'm not gonna say what either. We will so anchor in the Rules of Procedure that proposals must simply be approved. That only one reading, that we always approve the law as it goes to first reading, and then there's nothing that can be done about it. It's just the exact same philosophy that always comes from the same people, unfortunately. So I am of the opinion that the annual transparent work on the Board of Constitutional Law should not be thwarted by one act of the Constitutional Legal Committee in the Senate, by some behind-the-scenes lobbying by Mrs. Chief Deputy Bradáčová, who did not come to the Constitutional Legal Committee of the House where the year was discussed, not once. There wasn't a single prosecutor. But then one learns that we have discussed an amendment in a separate pirate way. Please support the House version. I think the senate, just like my colleague Benda said, is completely out of control. Unfortunately, she did not understand the substance of why the amendment came up with it. A lawyer should be able to evolve. It's no excess. Or maybe it's not some crazy crazy idea. It is something that is also in the legal order of other states, where criminal liability of legal persons is enshrined. It's no sign of corruption or of wanting to develop someone if he's guilty. It's just a possibility that if it's not the company's philosophy, if it's not the company's policy, the crimes that happened there, so she doesn't pay for it for nothing. Because both the philosophy of the law and the person at the lowest level of management, if he commits something, the whole company can in principle be abolished. And development there is not possible until now. I think this is wrong, and I ask you once again to support the House version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u21	I thank Mr Chvojka. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I ask about the final words of the appellant or rapporteurs, as appropriate. Not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on the criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended, according to the House press 304/7, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 304/8.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 27, 150 Members and Members registered, for 25, against 115. The motion was not accepted. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The necessary number of votes is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 418/2011 Coll., on the criminal liability of legal persons and proceedings against them, as amended, as referred to by the Senate, pursuant to the House Press 304/7.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 28, registered 153 Members and Members, for 134, against 14. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as it was passed to the Senate by the Chamber of Deputies. I thank the senator and the minister. [[18.20 hours]] Sorry, excuses. Mrs Kveta Matušovská apologizes today from 18:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 18 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologises for today's work-related negotiations, and Mrs Radka Maxová apologises from 19 o'clock to the end of the work-related negotiations for reasons of work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-24-ps2013-047-01-003-002.u22	Good evening, honourable Members. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. The next item is
