ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u1	67. Government draft constitutional law on the national referendum /German press 559/ - first reading I ask that the President of the Republic take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u2	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members. Although the President of the Republic has the right to speak on any subject under discussion, I believe that he should focus only on the laws that are crucial to the fate of our country or to the backbone. Until now, in this sense, I have performed three times before you, including today's performance. At first, I argued with the draft service law because I continue to believe that the good intention of this law, that is, depoliticizing the administration, was not fulfilled and led to the opposite effect. As you will recall, I was particularly opposed to the institution of the political deputy. And in one of the recently elusive emails, I was impressed by one that says, quote, "I am 60 years old, and I want to be a political deputy, at any ministry." End of quote. I think the author of this e-mail confirmed my criticism. However, I consider this matter to be closed. On the contrary, the second law that I supported was the law on proof of the origin of income and property, because it was time for us to find the courage to separate the people who acquired their property in a legal way from those who obtained it through economic crime. Now, for the third time, I am among you to support the law on a general referendum. Allow me, as an old armored man, to remember my relatively young years when I first read the table of preferences or prestige of individual professions as a Member of the Federal Assembly. Of course, such tables were not allowed to be compiled under communism because everyone had undoubtedly high prestige and there was no need to determine their order. And in that table in the early years of the November Revolution, the first places of prestigious professions were teachers, doctors and politicians, whether they were ministers or Members. Time went by, 25 years went by. Teachers and doctors in the first place of this ranking have remained and MEPs have gradually fallen below and which, in the last few years, politicians, not only MEPs, but also ministers, have taken second-to-last position as a cleaning lady. By the way, in Austria, the cleaning lady in the interests of political correctness is referred to as a beautician of floor areas. Because I'm not politically correct, I say cleaning lady. Very well. We must be concerned about this problem by all those involved in political activity. No one is pleased if the prestige of his profession, regardless of specific persons, declines. And today we are gathered here to discuss one of the laws that, at least in part, can restore to politicians their prestige by allowing them to overcome the barrier of alienation between them and citizens and citizens to be more drawn into the decision-making process. [[11.10 hours]] Sometimes politicians themselves are responsible for this alienation. Let me give you one example. I absolutely hate the expression "normal citizens" or "normal people." Because the one who says that demonstrates the papal respect of his listeners. When it culminates in the famous statement "I sew jackets in England, I sew pants in France, I have shoes from Italy, which one of you has it" We're all special. We've all done, at least adults, some work done. For someone, it's a tree planted, another house built, or a child born. No one's ordinary. We are all extraordinary, and that is why politicians should use the term 'normal citizens' rather than 'normal citizens'. This is, however, only one form of alienation between politicians and other citizens, which we blame ourselves for. Especially when we say "you ordinary citizens" and we don't say "we ordinary citizens." But in addition, we need legislation that would at least mitigate this barrier of alienation. And now I am ready to move on to the main subject of my speech, the law on a general referendum. I have studied this law thoroughly, otherwise I would not have the courage to come before you, and with the exception of a few details which require clarification rather than a fundamental change, I would recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this law. Let me list these partial comments, which are three. Reminder one. The law assumes that the Government may oppose the referendum proposal and turn to the Constitutional Court for this purpose. The same law assumes that petents have the same right, i.e. the right to disagree with the Government's proposal, and the Constitutional Court will therefore be the supreme arbiter of whether or not a referendum is legitimate. Okay. But now imagine the paradoxical situation when the government's proposal arrives at the same group of 15 constitutional judges first, and they will accept it, and shortly thereafter the opposite proposal of the petents will arrive. In such a case, these judges are in a schizophrenic situation because they will hardly vote against decisions that they themselves have taken shortly before in the second vote and in the same staff line-up. I think the solution is twofold. Either the Constitutional Court should decide on these complaints, whether the Government or the Pettents, not in plenary, but in the Senate, and the Chambers should be different when assessing either the Government or the Pettents, and the second option is that the Constitutional Court would discuss both proposals simultaneously in the plan. This, in my view, needs to be clarified, because the current interpretation clearly discriminates against petents. Case two. Of course, the state budget, taxes or human rights are excluded from the issues that may be the subject of a referendum. But then there is such an inconspicuous point that the subject of a referendum cannot be legislation. And the explanatory memorandum clearly states that law is, of course, a law, not just a sub-law. It follows logically that citizens could not comment on any bill. And there's a confusion. Imagine two situations where I am inspired by the ongoing debate on reducing the limits of juvenile criminal liability. The first type of question for the referendum would be: Do you agree with a law that would reduce the responsibility of this type? The second question, practically identical, would be: Are you in favour of reducing liability? So here you see a very clear confusion at that point that the referendum cannot touch legislation, virtually. Laws. Firstly, it is very easy to go around, and I have just given you this example, and secondly, it is nonsense. Because, if the referendum is to address the key issues of domestic and foreign policy, citizens should express themselves rather than the issues to be represented in the form of laws. Well, here's the third and final example. I think that the legislators, or the plaintiffs, and that is rather anecdote, ran out of pen when he wrote that the verification of signatures should take place in the same way as the verification of signatures in the presidential candidacy. Ladies and gentlemen, you must remember the genius of the Ministry of the Interior and its officials, which consisted of the fact that the fault sheets add up and not average. One anecdote has already been created - by mixing two bottles of 40 percent alcohol, we get high-quality 80 percent alcohol. So I really hope this is fixed because it's absolute nonsense. And we should not repeat the mistakes of our predecessors, and we should make mistakes of completely new, fresh and fresh. So much for the bill on the general referendum. Let me conclude with a few comments on direct democracy. I do not think that direct democracy would be a lower form of expression of the will of citizens than representative democracy. I consider representational and direct democracy to be complementary, not substitution, something that complements and even strengthens each other. [[11.20 hours]] The referendum raises votes against, including the group that left - except for Karel Tureček, for which I thank him - because this debate reminds me remarkably of a debate that was held a hundred years ago on universal electoral law. And there are the same arguments. Citizens are unable to decide such important matters. We are in danger - I quote Daniel Kroupa - of the government of the mob. One of the presidential candidates who recently announced the abolition of his candidacy justified this by the fact that there are too few wise people in this country. Another quote again. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has the right to insult their own nation. And if he does, he has to assume that in reality he only insults himself. However, I say that the Act on a general referendum, no matter how important it is, is only part of a direct democracy, and although I will certainly not force any more laws supporting a direct democracy in my lifetime, let me at least mention them very briefly. Firstly, I support the idea of a direct election of mayors and captains. Not just because, or mainly because, according to public opinion polls, two thirds of citizens - I quote the material Herzmann: Czech voters - but mainly because I fear behind-the-scenes manipulation and intrigue. And let me give you one more example. The elders of us will remember a person named Jančík. He was the mayor of Prague 5. He got the lowest number of preferential votes, yet he became mayor in exchange for something. And I don't think it would do his party any good, on the contrary. The proposal I'm promoting is that the mayor or the governor would be the one who gets the most preferential votes on the list of the most successful party. The latter is because the elected mayor or the captain should not remain a stake in the fence and should have strong support among the representatives, even though it would not necessarily be majority support. From this point of view, it would not be necessary to make a separate election of the captains or mayors. And to the naive counterargument of what happens when the mayor doesn't want it, the answer is the second one in line. The penultimate point, which causes general upset, is based on the fact that direct democracy is not just a right. Direct democracy is also an obligation. And I think you have an idea where I'm headed - to make a mandatory election. The compulsory electoral participation is in Belgium, Luxembourg, Australia and other countries. I looked at the results of the tournaments in Belgium - 90%. Ninety percent! Well, unfortunately, there's probably no one here to remember the first republic. I would like to remind you that the compulsory electoral participation was also under the first Republic of Masarykův. And Winston Churchill, in one of his speeches at the end of World War II, said that it was a good idea and that the penalty for not attending should be worth one better dinner. Although he did not define the content of the participants in this dinner and the branch of the family involved in it, it can still be said that the fine would not be liquidated. The last point I'd like to offer you to consider is squeezing. As you know, Panash is a french colorful guild and means nothing more in this case than that a citizen can choose between more candidates. This system already exists in municipal elections and, in my opinion, it has proved itself. I do not see a fundamental reason against being transferred to the level of regional and parliamentary elections. You're bound by candidates for candidates, no doubt. And, for example, in the 15-member council, you can choose and assemble your own candidate by carefully crossing those people you know and who you really appreciate. The lazy ones will only check one candidate and risk buying carrots along with onions. Because at the end of the candidate there are usually people who are somewhat disrespectfully called bushes or water carriers. If the scramble is applied in full, it is the same as choosing an appetizer from one menu, from the other main course, from the third soup, from the fourth dessert, or from the aperitif. Well, it follows that politics is losing personalities to get into the game just because at regional and national level, you are bound by one single party candidate. And we don't have enough personalities to lose them, in my opinion. That, ladies and gentlemen, is about everything I wanted to say about the context of this law, i.e. about possible further steps towards direct democracy and underestimating citizens and their common sense, which is common sense. Finally, I would like to point out the example of Switzerland, where there are cantonal referendums, that Switzerland is a prosperous country, which has not only not harmed the system of referendums, but has benefited. I hear an argument: we must wait until our citizens are as mature as the Švýcar. This argument has the same logic as saying: we must wait for you to recover from tuberculosis, and then we will give you antibiotics. The system of referendums and other steps of direct democracy is intended to increase the participation of citizens in public life, and to bring them closer to politicians and to bring us closer to those quoted Švýcar. [[11.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the Act on the General referendum is a constitutional law. That means he needs at least 120 votes in this House. Allow me to appeal also to that part of the opposition, which, after all, has presented the Act on a general referendum on its own several times and without whose votes this law cannot be adopted. And I wish all of us that through this and other laws our profession, the profession of politicians, should gradually start to rise from the bottom and to catch up with doctors and teachers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll interrupt the meeting for three minutes. We'll continue at 11.34.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 11:34 a.m., we'll continue the adjourned negotiations. Before I challenge the plaintiff to the press, allow me to load my apologies. For reasons of employment between 12.15 and 14.00, Mr Lobkowicz apologizes from today and Mr Ivan Gabal apologises from 11 to 12.00. On behalf of the Government, Minister Jiří Dienstbier shall state the proposal. I beg you to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u5	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, the Government, by its resolution, approved the draft constitutional law on the national referendum on 13 July 2015 and subsequently submitted it to the Chamber of Deputies. The aim of the proposed constitutional law is to introduce the institute of national referendum into the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The proposed legislation is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it aims to comply with Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, according to which constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. The draft constitutional law on the national referendum was drawn up on the basis of the Government's programming declaration. The government with its programming statement, among other things. It has undertaken to support the possibility of launching a national referendum on fundamental issues of the functioning of the state, including on the basis of the People's Initiative and always on clearly defined issues, while at the same time establishing a constitutional law on issues on which a referendum cannot be declared. According to the proposal, there can be a referendum on matters of internal or foreign policy of the State, with the exception of decisions on fundamental rights and freedoms, on the state budget and on matters involving interference in the regulation or administration of taxes, charges or other similar financial transactions, and breach of obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic, the appointment of individual persons in office, as well as their withdrawal from office as well as individual rights and obligations. Also, as has already been said here, legislation cannot be approved by referendum. Any citizen of the Czech Republic or group of citizens who have reached the date of the application for the 18-year-old referendum shall be entitled to submit a motion for a referendum if they support their petition signed by at least 250,000 citizens of the Czech Republic, who have reached the date of the application for the 18-year-old referendum, which may be signed within a period of six months from the date on which it was to the government, respectively. The Ministry of the Interior has received a notice of initiation of the collection of signatures under this petition. The details will, of course, be regulated in the implementing law. Only a citizen or a group of citizens of the Czech Republic can submit a proposal for a referendum. The Government, Members and Senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and higher local authorities may use their legislative initiative to promote their objectives within the limits of Article 41 (2) of the Treaty. 2 Constitution and file a bill to the Chamber of Deputies. In other words, the law rests on the citizens' initiative. Politicians should not hide behind the referendum, they should make decisions, and it is up to citizens whether they call for a referendum by their petition. Of course, the legislative initiative enables those who have it to submit, if necessary, a draft Constitutional Act on a referendum on a specific issue, but this should, in principle, be avoided by the regulation of the general referendum. The review of the proposal for a referendum by the Constitutional Court is proposed as preventive and optional. A proposal from the Constitutional Court may be submitted by the Government, a group of 25 Members or ten Senators. In the event that the Government decides that the conditions for submitting a motion for a referendum are not met, then a pettent or a group of petents who have submitted a motion for a referendum are not met. I can reassure you, the judges of the Constitutional Court will not be confused in examining these proposals. On the one hand, they are accustomed to discussing more similar proposals and, of course, they usually come from sticking to their opinion. It's modified, even how they can change it. In this case, this cannot be done practically at all, because, of course, the Government will only submit such a proposal to the Constitutional Court if it considers that it does not comply with the proposal, virtually. the question does not meet those set parameters. [[11.40 hours]] In the event that the Constitutional Court decides that it meets, the petents will, of course, be satisfied. And petents, on the contrary, have it as a defense against the government. So there really can be no conflict that suddenly the Constitutional Court is tempted to issue two contradictory findings on this matter. In the event that the Government thus agrees with the proposed referendum and fails to submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court, neither the Members nor the Senators will do so, the President of the Republic shall declare within 30 days of the date on which the deadline for submitting proposals has expired to the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, if the case is brought before the Constitutional Court, within 30 days of the Constitutional Court's decision. Every citizen of the Czech Republic who has reached 18 years has the right to vote in a referendum according to the proposal. The decision on the proposal will be taken in the referendum if the majority of the voting citizens and at the same time at least 25 per cent of the citizens entitled to vote in the referendum answer the question put in the referendum positively, or if the majority of the voting and, at the same time, 25 per cent of all entitled to vote respond in a negative manner. We did not go in the proposal to establish minimum participation in the referendum, but we set out in the proposal a minimum number of votes for or against the proposed issue, which, among other things, makes it impossible to call on those who do not agree with the question not to participate in the referendum. There is a need to express yourself actively in favour or against, while at the same time setting a minimum qualified limit for the approval of a binding referendum result so that only a minimum number of citizens, with low participation, cannot decide on the absolutely fundamental issue of the state's functioning. The decision taken in the referendum will oblige the Government and Parliament, for the term of the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, but at the same time for at least three years from the date of notification of the result of the referendum vote. The Government will have an obligation to implement this decision within its scope, which may include, for example, the preparation and presentation of a draft law to Parliament, if it is necessary to amend legislation at the level of the law to implement a referendum. The decision taken in the referendum will also be binding on Parliament for the same time as the government. Parliament's draft constitutional law prohibits the adoption of a resolution which would be contrary to the decision taken in the referendum. Unlike the government, Parliament is bound in a negative sense. It may not, for a given period, adopt a resolution which would be contrary to the decision taken in the referendum. Parliament's inaction, of course, is not contrary to constitutional law in this case. Members and senators have nothing to do with their mandate, and they cannot therefore be ordered to actively vote in favour of a bill. However, Parliament cannot adopt any bill or other resolution contrary to the outcome of the referendum. Of course, it would be possible to defend itself against this law in the Constitutional Court with a proposal to abolish it. Of course, as I said, Parliament cannot be actively forced to actively approve a law. But I suppose that the will of citizens expressed in a political referendum is also a commitment or rather clear information for politicians who sit in the Senate in the government. Of course, it is not the purpose of amending the decision taken in the referendum once and for all. Therefore, time limits are set. They are essentially bound to the term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, which, of course, may be the subject of debate, but it is probably a rational period for which the decision can be tied. Of course, there are parliamentary elections in which candidates can also comment on the result of the referendum, and how they firmly perceive it politically and for the next period. From the point of view of the repetition of the referendum - on the same subject, the referendum will be possible at the earliest after the end of the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies and at the same time at least three years after the date of the announcement of the results of the vote in the previous referendum, i.e. in principle the same deadline as for the binding nature of the referendum. [[Noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, the list of draft laws referred to in Article 40 of the Constitution, for which approval is required by the two chambers of Parliament, is extended. The list of bills is extended to include a draft law on the implementation of a national referendum, as it is by its nature an electoral law and regulates a national referendum. It is therefore an equivalent of electoral laws. This amendment is linked to the legislative technical amendment in Article 10a of the Constitution. The procedure provided for in Article 40 will be approved only by the draft law on the implementation of the national referendum, while the draft laws governing the regional and local referendum will continue to be in the same regime as before. I think it might be enough to start the debate this way. I will, of course, be pleased if the draft constitutional law receives the support of the Chamber of Deputies throughout the hearing. It is, of course, entirely legitimate to have a debate on parameters, as proposed in the bill. I look forward to this debate and hope that it will result in the adoption of a good draft constitutional law on a national referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u6	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u7	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by repeating what has already been done here, which means that this is a draft constitutional law, which will require 120 Members and three fifths of the senators present to adopt it. However, this does not mean that it would not be possible to adopt amendments by the simple majority, but it must be assumed that the Senate cannot be overvoted in this case. So much for the introduction, as far as the procedure is concerned. The current applicable constitutional law is based on representative, i.e. representative democracy. However, in Article 2 The Constitution clearly assumes that constitutional law can determine when the people exercise their power directly. It is also necessary to refer to Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms under which citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs directly or by the free choice of their representatives. I think we need to enrich this debate and some historical facts from the last 25 years. Here I was inspired by a number of states by Professor Jičínský, and I tried to calculate, on the basis of his earlier articles, how many were actually attempts to introduce a referendum in the Czech Republic. Since 1992, when the Constitution was adopted, and thus since 1993, since the establishment of the Czech Republic, it has been at least 20 proposals, with five proposals in the first parliamentary term of the House 1992-1996 alone. Of course, it cannot be said that all the more than 20 proposals have always been completely different. It was a certain mix, some repeated with different changes. And I would like to draw attention to some of the ideas and proposals in this debate in relation to what we are discussing today. [[11.50 hours]] Undoubtedly, the main reason and the main topics discussed was entry into international organisations. Most of the proposals, like today's proposal, have also been aimed at establishing a law on a general referendum, a referendum that can be raised to any question if this issue has sufficient support in society. However, there was also an ad hoc referendum that was proposed. The only successful was the referendum on EU accession. The proposed and unsuccessful was the President's direct election, the Treaty of Lisbon, the reform of the public administration or the commissioning of the Temelín nuclear power plant. I think it is clear that, to a large extent, the proposal that the government is now proposing is inspired by the proposals that have already been here, and partly by the adjustments that we have made in recent periods in relation to the local referendum. As far as the subject of the referendum is concerned, that means what can be decided in the referendum, that is, of course, something that will probably be most debated. It will decide on matters of internal or foreign policy of the State with the exception of those which are in a negative list. They've already been mentioned. However, it is logical that individual rights and obligations cannot be decided, interfering with the activities of courts, human rights. In the case of a debate that will certainly be here, i.e. the issue of legislation approval, it would probably not be entirely right for us to allow us to vote in a referendum on a specific law without changing, for example, some technical matter by legislative amendments. On the other hand, I can imagine a possible adjustment and debate that, for example, if a law was passed, a referendum could decide whether it should or should not take effect. This means that a specific text would be decided, and there would be no doubt about the legislative quality of the specific law, even if we know for ourselves, and what arises in the Chamber of Deputies, is often not entirely ideal in terms of the quality of legislation. We will certainly discuss this, however, contrary to some other proposals, if this law is adopted, it will not be a consultative referendum, that is, it will not only be about asking citizens what they think about the matter, but they will be able to decide on a specific matter, and will therefore be binding on Parliament and the Government on this matter. You may ask yourself what it is about and what cannot be decided in the referendum on the basis of the positive and negative enumeration. Of course, this is changed in every EU state, and I would like to give some examples that have appeared here in the last 15 or 20 years. And I would also like to say that, at this point in time, from 28 EU states, there are no referendums, including the Czech Republic. Among those countries is Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands. Others have a referendum, with the most referendums held in Slovenia in 2006-2015 - eight, in Ireland and Italy after seven and in France and Britain after six. The others move from zero to five. This means that at the moment it can be said that the institute of referendum is not overused and a large part of the referendums concerned mainly the overseas territories or the autonomy of some parts of these countries, which are therefore not very inspiring for the Czech Republic. However, at random, the referendum took place about 70. In Bulgaria on the construction of a nuclear power plant, another on the possibility of electronic voting, in Denmark on the gender-neutral handover of the koruna, which will certainly not concern our country, a similar referendum. In France, on the privatisation of postal services, in Croatia on the definition of marriage and the prohibition of homosexual marriages, in Italy on the reform of social insurance, in Latvia it concerned the amendment of the Act on public pensions, in Luxembourg the right to vote for foreigners and the reduction of the age for the possibility of voting, in Hungary the free state university education, the abolition of the fee for visiting a doctor and hospital hospital hospital hospital hospitalization, in Malta - also in our country probably impossible - about the permission of divorce and spring bird hunting. As far as Poland is concerned, there is also the financing of political parties, in Portugal the issue of abortion, in Austria the professionalisation of the army and the abolition of compulsory military services, in Greece the adoption of the proposal for international creditors and the resolution of debt crises, in Slovakia the abolition of licence fees and the definition of marriage, adoption of children, elections over the Internet and others. So much for a brief overview of what it looks like in Europe, and so we can throw ourselves at the specific points that we will be discussing. The question for the referendum has already been raised. As far as the proposal for a referendum is concerned, the government says that it should be a petition supported by 250,000 citizens, with a maximum of six months to collect these signatures. In the past, variants of 200,000, 250, 300, 350, or even 500,000 signatures were discussed. There was also an option in some earlier proposals to initiate a referendum by signatures 101 and 41 senators, or by government, or by two fifths of Members, or by two fifths of senators, or by 15 percent of citizens. [[Members?]] I think this could definitely be an inspiration. The question is whether, for example, to allow the government, in addition to citizens, to declare a referendum, but I think it will rather be a debate in the committees. As far as the review of the proposal for a referendum is concerned, this has already been discussed here. This means that there is a certain insurance policy from the point of view of the Constitutional Court before it is announced, not until then, because it would probably not be logical, but above all economically and at all possible and good to hold a referendum and then to find out that its outcome is unconstitutional. As far as the referendum is concerned, it is proposed that the referendum should always be combined with the elections if it is six months from them. I think this is a very good step to prevent a referendum from taking place a month or three days before the elections, even with regard to costs. I'm sure we can discuss whether the deadline should be greater. It would mean, on the one hand, restricting the right to referenda within a short period of time, on the other hand, greater participation in the referendum or, on the other hand, in the elections, and it would also mean saving the resources of the state. With regard to the decision taken in the referendum, Minister Dienstbier has already mentioned this. Once again, we can discuss whether participation is to be determined as proposed. In the past, votes were raised to make minimum participation mandatory for one third of the electorate, or 50 percent of all voters. I would like to warn here that we should raise the border, because this was set in the area of municipal referendums, in the context of local referendums, and then it happened that this referendum was in principle never binding, because it was enough for those who did not agree with the question, even though they are in a minority, not to come to the elections and would have to come to a total of 50 per cent and one person from all the voters who would have agreed to the question. This would mean that referendums will be possible, but they will often crash, and I do not think that it would benefit either the legitimacy of the referendum or the trust in Czech politics. As far as the adjustment is concerned, I think it's balanced. It prevents, for example, 10 per cent of people from taking part in the referendum, and 6 per cent will be decided by the majority, namely, that this matter will be binding. Twenty-five percent of all voters for the question is I think that there is a sufficient guarantee of legitimacy. We also have to realise that, for example. Senate elections often take place with the participation of ten, 15 percent of the electorate, and no one will ever pay the senator. That means, in this case, I think that the threshold of 25 percent for the question is sufficiently representative. [[12.00 hours]] As regards the binding nature of the referendum, it says that the government is committed positively. That means he has to do something. Parliament, on the contrary, has a negative effect. This means that it must not exceed what has been set by the referendum. The term is a given term plus three years. There were two thesises in the previous proposals. One, tighten the time, give more rights to voters. This means that the period would be five years regardless of the term of office. On the other hand, proposals have also been made for Parliament to change the will of the voters if two thirds of the Members and two thirds of the senators would support the matter. That means more than the constitutional majority where there are three fifths. The proposal has not received support in the past. However, I present it here for order as well. It is logical that the referendum will not take place on the same subject for three years. As regards the details of the holding of the referendum, i.e. the collection of signatures to be provided for by a special law must certainly be brought to the attention of this. The President has already spoken about this. The verification of signatures under the petition, as it is today in connection with the Act on Direct Choice, is incorrect. It's also risky based on the experience we have. It is prepared at least at this time at the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. If, at the time of its effectiveness, the law was based on what would be valid and effective at a time when we would already have a modified law on direct choice, then the problem would not arise. However, I think there are two options. Either the question of CzechPoint and the registration of a specific one that he signs at CzechPoint or the fact that they are not listed, as today, the name and residence and signature of a petition. But in the Interior Ministry's proposal, I think it is logical that the number of the ID card is listed on the petition, which, of course, is controllable, and yet it is not an indication to identify a citizen in the sense that it is a birth number. As far as the law as a whole is concerned, it remains to be said that it is a debt that we have not only to our citizens but, above all, to the Constitution. Or, on the contrary, maybe, above all, to the voters. We don't only have debt after November 1989. The 1920 Constitution also envisaged a referendum, but the municipal referendum bill proposed was not adopted by the National Assembly. And even in the first Republic, there was no referendum. Of course, there are many attempts. I believe this one will be successful. I think there is no reason for us to delay, in my opinion, exceptionally majority will after this institute is to be anchored. And I would warn you very much that we should look for unnecessary contradictions in a specific adjustment, so that if we are the proponents of a referendum as such, we should look for a way to adjust the proposal so that it gets a hundred and twenty votes rather than say that we want a referendum, but this is too much or this is not enough. I think we need to find some golden middle ground, and I believe that this proposal will succeed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am opening a debate in which I am registering two applications with priority rights. First Mr. Cernoch and then Mr. President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u9	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Dawn Party has a number of reservations about this government bill on a national referendum. Me and my fellow MPs will introduce you to the most important. We will promote a substantial amendment to this law. The parameters proposed by Minister Dienstbier essentially do not allow citizens to really decide on important issues in referendums - such as the immigration crisis. We consider the biggest problem to be limiting the circle of questions to which the referendum may refer. The proposal prohibits voting on the international obligations of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, due to the government, the Czech Republic's international commitment is most immigration issues. The international commitment is immigration quotas, such as being dictated to us from Brussels. An international commitment is also an inability to protect national borders permanently, thanks to Schengen. Our remaining in the EU is an international commitment. International commitment would also be e.g. visa-free relations with Turkey. Today, all these issues can be voted on under special laws. And Dawn has already tabled special laws on referendums on immigration quotas and on the continuation of the Czech Republic of the EU. The Government proposal would prohibit voting on all these matters, which we believe are the most important issues today, and the citizens of the Czech Republic must have the right to decide on these issues. It is an evil intention of the government to block the possibility of asking these questions. Imagine a dead end that Prime Minister Sobotka would have gotten into if citizens had forbidden him to accept immigrants on the basis of quotas. We have put this referendum on the table, and Prime Minister Sobotka desperately needs a reason to drop it. It is clear that citizens would put immigration policy on the government's head. The issue of receiving Islamic immigrants, the issue of border control, the issue of quotas wherever citizens are definitely opposed to a government coalition, the government will decide on its own, regardless of citizens. And that really seems rude to me on this proposal. To put forward a referendum proposal only as an empty box. Really important issues where the government fears citizens' opinion must not be decided there. Ask yourself how citizens would answer questions from our referendum on quotas. I quote from our law: "Do you agree that the Czech Republic does not comply with any legal act of the European Union on the relocation of applicants for international protection? Do you agree that the Czech Republic should bring an action before the Court of Justice or join such an action against any legal act of the European Union on the relocation of applicants for international protection?" It is clear that citizens would decide yes on both issues. I therefore ask why the government does not want the mandate of citizens in these matters. Because he's asserting his opinion, and no matter what, he won't let ordinary people talk to him. People choose their representatives to promote their interests. If this is not the case with the Czech Government, there must be an instrument to say no to the government. That is the true nature of the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, direct democracy and referendum are the fundamental principles of the Dawn Party. We have already tabled a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. It was a mess. And as the President has said, we are all equal and everyone has the right to make decisions on important matters of his own country. We will support this law, but we will propose changes so that the referendum does not just become a cosmetic element, but it has become a genuine tool for citizens to be able to express their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u10	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u11	Thank you for the floor. I will not talk too much about the principle of a general referendum itself. When Minister Dienstbier and I were discussing those basic parameters some year ago in the meeting of the representatives of the MPs about the draft law that was at the time, I defined our clear position: we are not in favour of this law on a general referendum. By the way it is written, it is fundamentally a trick for citizens, because in that proposal, where questions are excluded that the referendum is not supposed to have, from our point of view, we agree on four points from the five that the government is proposing. But such an inconspicuous sentence says that a referendum cannot be a restriction in the commitments accepted by the Czech Republic. It makes it impossible to hold a referendum on really key decisions of the Czech state. For us, and we say this in the long term, a special referendum is acceptable in exceptional situations, a referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. And we have long argued that we should decide on the possible adoption of the euro in a referendum. If the constitutional majority, which means without us, approves this bill, there will be no referendum on the adoption or non-acceptance of the euro. I can guess what the result of the referendum would be if we passed the law, or you approved it, you found a constitutional majority, the twelve months of effectiveness had passed. I think 250,000 signatures can be obtained. And I believe that the citizens' response would be, for example, in 2017 or 2018, when such a referendum could be a real one, that it would be "no, we do not want the euro." According to this bill, such a referendum simply cannot take place. I think this is one of the key decisions about the future of our country and the future of our citizens. And all those here who say and defend this principle, how they want to give citizens the right to speak, so in this particular question, they take away their right. Let's look at the parameters in more detail in this debate. Very often we have heard and heard from those - and it is true that it is a long time's effort to adopt this law in different parliamentary periods, different groups of Members or different governments have proposed and very often said "they already have it in Slovakia." And that's true, that's where the law has been since 1993, which means 23 years. Slovakia has about half the population - approximately, so we don't exactly say percentages. There is a need for a referendum of 350 thousand signatures. If I took it mathematically to the Czech Republic, there couldn't be 250 grand in the bill, but 700 thousand signatures. So the set of signatures, the number needed under the request for a referendum, is significantly lower than in Slovakia. And what is the experience of our neighbor, from former fellow citizens with whom we have shared a common state for decades? There have been eight referendums so far. One was successful in the sense that it achieved the required participation, which, by the way, is 50 per cent in Slovakia. In principle, 25.01.0% is sufficient here, if all those who come vote in favour or against, so that the outcome of the referendum is binding. So it's almost half. If you look at the statistics that I'm about to introduce you to in more detail, very often the result of the question is somewhere between 88 and 92 percent. It is logical that those who are particularly interested in the question go to the referendum and vote in favour. So at our limit, 25 percent of the consent of registered voters, if you translate it and you come out of real life, not 100% consent, but somewhere between 88 and 92, we're actually saying that 27, maybe 28 percent of the citizens will decide. And that's a distinct minority. There is a 50 per cent compulsory participation in Slovakia. I will now turn a little bit and ask the government coalition and the minister who is presenting it for the government to present statistics on the results of general referendums in the Czech Republic by the second reading, which can certainly be found through the Ministry of the Interior, so that we know in which years how many were written, or what were the questions, and which referendum was successful in terms of validity according to the number of votes present. It is not important how this general referendum turned out, whether the citizens voted in favour or against, but whether it was valid. And there's a 35 percent limit, if I'm not mistaken. But I think it would be good to debate the parameters of the General referendum law to see the results of the general referendums, because that law has been in force for some time. He won't have troops, I think he'll have dozens of cases. And as much as we do not say, "I know one referendum in my region, and I know another referendum," these statistics would be very useful, and I believe that we will then get it to the committee so that we can forecast and estimate some of the percentages that will be based on our usual electoral participation, whether in the various types of elections or in the general referendum. There was also a successful referendum in the Czech Republic, actually with the same question as the successful referendum in Slovakia, with the question of whether we want the Czech Republic to join the European Union. It was the path of a special law. Our political party supported this at the time. This was precisely the case where we think that by a special law, we can raise an extremely important question in the form of a referendum for the citizens to decide. All the other seven referendums in Slovakia were unsuccessful in terms of participation. The first was already in 1994, when the question was whether the citizens agreed to adopt the Act on the demonstration of funds used in privatisation. I'm translating it straight from Slovak, so if it wasn't exactly accurate, don't hold my breath. Attendance 19,96 %, less than 20 %. Then there was a referendum in 1997, where there were four questions. In fact, our bill does not exclude that there are several questions in the referendum. Even at one time, a referendum can take place, as well as a variety of petitioning events. This is the right principle, logical, simplifies administration and does not throw citizens as many as three months into a possible referendum. These were questions such as: Are you in favour of entering the Slovak Republic into NATO? Are you behind the deployment of nuclear weapons in the territory of the Slovak Republic? Are you behind the deployment of military bases in the territory of the Slovak Republic? Also, whether or not they agree to vote directly for the President of the Slovak Republic. In the meantime, they already have a direct presidential election in Slovakia, we all know that. However, 9.53% of eligible voters participated in this referendum, i.e. less than 10 per cent. In 1998, a referendum was held that citizens were to comment on whether they wished to privatise - there are six companies named primarily energy companies, and I will not read them here. This referendum therefore aroused quite a high interest, 44 percent of the electorate took part, but it was also unsuccessful in Slovakia under their law. In 2000, there was a referendum which took place subsequently around the opening of extraordinary elections. As I understand it, the question was: Do you wish the Slovak Parliament's term of office to end after 150 days from the announcement of the referendum results? 20,03 %. In 2003, there was a successful referendum when the question was whether Slovakia should become a Member State of the European Union. Attendance 52 %. Then, in 2004, the referendum was again to shorten the Slovak Parliament's term of office - a participation of 36%, which in our case would mean - now I am missing the interpretation of whether the question is or is not, because I do not know whether the shortening of the parliamentary term is a rebuttal which is excluded. There we might wonder if, according to the diction of this law, such a referendum would be admissible. At this point, I can't predict it, it's not entirely clear from the point of view of the law whether there could be a referendum on the shortening of the parliamentary term. That's de facto rebuttal, but not in the true sense of recalling the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Governor, the Mayor, and what else can you think of? And 36 percent of the citizens came to that. So if that question were admissible, and I really don't know, perhaps the Minister could give his opinion - I know that eventually the Constitutional Court would decide according to the bill - whether this mechanism is right, I just shouldn't say that everything in the bill is wrong. But 36 percent, in our case, 28 percent of the citizens could de facto trigger early elections if the question is in transit. [[12.20 hours]] I do not know whether this affects the individual rights of Members of the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's too broad an interpretation of the concept of individual rights, individual freedoms. So let's try to answer in these debates whether such a question would have been admissible if the law had not complied with the change, and whether that was a good thing. I think it is not a good thing that a small group - she is not small, but a percentage - 28 percent of the citizens have said so, we do not like how the elections have ended, we will make a referendum and we will shorten the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. And then, logically, early elections would have to follow, even though the results and participation in the parliamentary elections from our experience are about 60 percent if you look at the long-term participation in the elections in the Chamber of Deputies. In 2010, there was a referendum that had six questions. It concerned such practical things as the abolition of licence fees, in our case it would be Czech Television and Czech Radio, whether the President's powers should be extended by law, whether there could be a discussion of misdemeanors and so on. In this referendum, electoral participation was 22.84 %. And the very last referendums took place in Slovakia last year, February 2015. It was interpreted and was known as a referendum on a family that had three questions. One was about marriage, one adoption, and one child education, essentially in favour of the traditional family model, so I wouldn't read the questions exactly. In this case, 21,41 percent of the citizens participated in the referendum, which is not so much from the proposed border, which was 95 percent. This means, indeed - and the Minister here puts forward other laws that go against what the referendum has dealt with. I don't know if he'd like that, for example, when he's gonna push through one of those laws about adopting children by homosexual couples, if he'd like 27 percent of his citizens to have this political success cancelled by a referendum. These are experiences from our neighbouring state. And if you look at it - they too have a rule in the law, which the referendum does not have - it is a consensus with the three points in this government proposal in principle, but there is no other point. They don't have this explicit appeal deal, and of course they don't have the point that we consider the most problematic, and that's international commitments. Because international commitments are created not only by Parliament, but by a certain nature of international commitments that the government itself can create. That's why I'm saying the bill is kind of like a trick. When we hear the Minister about what, for example, a referendum could be about, for example, an increase in speed on highways from 130 to 150. I have suggested this, I am in favour, but I would never discuss it with a referendum, because it is not a key matter of our legislation and of our public or private life. And I say that we accept the usefulness of the referendum on certain issues, so we say that this is to be on extremely important issues. All the examples that the Minister has listed so far are such... Well, maybe it wouldn't be an EET. But these are also things that should be dealt with in elections. Unless, of course, it's another matter of whether you make it constitutionally conformal or not. But I don't want to elaborate on that here. But it's basically, if you're saying it's because of taxes, I don't know if it's a passing question. And I agree with the proposal and, indeed, we agree as a political party that there is no referendum on taxes. So what we want to draw your attention to is those of you who are prepared to vote in favour of this law, unless you change it, if you leave it only in this shape, as the government coalition has put it, and the key issues of our future, such as the adoption of the euro, cannot be voted on. And to think about it, the number of signatures to call for a referendum. Let's remember how the signatures were evaluated. Now I'm not going to contribute to that debate that's really funny, and let's not worry about the law that the average of two numbers is going to be determined by adding it up and dividing it by two because the ministers then said it wasn't in the law at the Ministry of the Interior. So I really don't think we should give basic mathematical formulas from second or third grade to the law. Remember the debate that the signature is acceptable and that it isn't. If it isn't a question that should be specified in the hearing. Likewise, 25 per cent for - this actually reduces the compulsory call for participation. Of course, we can model that when 50 or 49 percent comes, almost half of the voters come, the 25 percent is adequate. But there is some experience, and the Minister can bring other countries, so that he does not say that I have chosen Slovakia for purpose. I've only looked into it in one country, one that is historically and politically very close to us, and I say from those results, very often the voice for was about 90 percent, which mathematically at 28% participation is already decided. And it's probably for the Constitutional Committee to put two principles next to each other that would apply. We have made a promise, we have said that we will make decisions according to our best knowledge and conscience, and our right is to put forward bills and vote in some way. And it says here that if a referendum comes out, the Chamber of Deputies may not adopt any resolutions for three years. I would like, I am not an expert at this, in order to have an expert debate on how these two principles that, from my point of view, go against each other - we should all individually and grouply for three years restrict this right. I don't know how we're gonna deal with this or deal with it. In my speech to our MP, I wanted to draw attention to the risks, to the fact that - and in my view, it is deliberately, in my opinion, those who strongly believe in the ideas of the euro and want to put his head on the line deliberately. It's not a coincidence. If that is not the case, let us put it there explicitly - that there may be a referendum on the adoption of another currency and perhaps other questions. And it's hidden in the general, that we've accepted - and now I don't want to question it or ironize really important conventions. But in my opinion, political conviction, it is the captivatingness of those who want the euro, who want to exclude the public from this decision, that we are told that we decided this in 2004. We haven't! See what the question was in 2004 and compare the European Union and the rules on the functioning of the EU in 2004 and 2016. It's completely changed. So even if this were true, if the question in 2004 were formulated "Do you agree with the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union and agree to the adoption of the euro?"So you are right, you who say that this has been resolved once, in 2004. It's not true. I wanted to make it very clear that there is a ban on holding a referendum on the adoption of the euro and that, at the very least - you who want to support the principle, you should remove this ban from the law and say yes when either the citizens or the government thinks it is time - those who want it because it is not worth making a referendum on not wanting it. The referendum should be made by those who want to leave the Czech crown because it is not worth a referendum: we want to maintain the current state. There's no logic to that. Anyone who wants to change that should come up with a referendum and the public should comment on it. And according to this, we would either retain the Czech koruna or accept the euro with all the risks of this political and not economic project. Given what I have said, and since we perceive political reality and the distribution of views on this issue, I will not propose rejection at first reading. We are prepared, although we are against the general referendum, for a technical debate in committees on specific issues. We will not lead, and we will not waste time conducting heated debates on this principle, that is the thing of each of us or every political party. But because we do not like the principle, we want and we will have a debate on the specific parameters and possibilities that this bill could possibly bring to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u12	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u13	Mr Vice-President, Madam, Members. Given the nature and significance of the proposal, I will respond on an ongoing basis, not in the final word. Mr Černoch here actually questioned the possibility of voting in a referendum from several points of view. First of all, the bill is restrictive. Yes, it's somewhat restrictive. I didn't exactly stress it here in the opening word. Of course, we held negotiations, first at coalition level, then, as President Stanjura mentioned here, with representatives of NGOs here in the Chamber of Deputies. We've been trying to take into account a whole range of views. And the proposal is, of course, to a large extent compromise, in the sense that there is a chance for 120 Members to receive support. In such a case, I think we need to act more widely and look for a compromise. Because, of course, we can all imagine some form of law, as we would have liked it, and then we will not have any legislation on a national referendum. The second point was that the law makes what is possible today impossible to hold a referendum on some issues on the basis of individual constitutional laws on the holding of a referendum on a specific issue. It doesn't. That's what I mentioned in the opening words. Of course, this law does not prevent the adoption of any other constitutional bill on referendums on a specific issue. Mr Cernocho's Černoch that it is not possible to reach agreement here that a referendum should be held on a question which is even formulated that the Czech Republic will not comply with the legal act when it concerns anything, but that is, of course, contrary to the principles of democratic rule of law. If any legal act is what we're bound by, we're following it. This does not mean that we ourselves will strive for such a legal act to be issued, we will not need to act in the exact opposite direction. But the idea of voting here in a referendum on non-compliance with legal obligations is totally unacceptable to me. To President Stanjur. I see the long-term stance of the Civil Democratic Party, which rejects, in principle, the referendum as an institute. This is a legitimate and long-term consistent attitude. What I don't feel so consistent about anymore is trying to initiate a referendum on a case-by-case basis. I've already said the same thing. I think that it is not the role of politicians to hide behind a referendum or to declare it individually when it suits us for some political reasons. That there is really to be a general adjustment to the national referendum and the possibility of forcing citizens, in principle, despite politicians holding a referendum. Because it doesn't seem fair to me to the citizens. I won't allow you to hold a referendum, but if it suits me, if I want it for political reasons, then yes. It's up to me, not you, citizens. So, in that sense, I don't see the consistency of the attitude there, in the long-term rejection of the institute at all, in principle, yes. Here I would point out that the Government of the Czech Republic does not intend to go beyond the parliamentary form of the Republic, i.e. from the representative principle. The point is, in crucial cases, to allow people to decide directly in a referendum. About the parameters. Yes, they have 350 thousand signatures in Slovakia. If we took it purely mathematically to the population, it would be 700 thousand signatures. I don't think it's as easy to get twice as many signatures in a double-popular country. But so be it, you can think like that. That number of signatures of 250,000 is also a compromise. We had comments in the commentary procedure that it is too much that it should be 100 grand, but also that it is not enough that it should be 400,000. It's just some kind of compromise that's here. I would point out that we, however, have something that is not in Slovakia in this proposal for an adjustment, and that is the need to take it within a time limit of six months, which, on the other hand, tightens the regime. It's like it's a little more signatures in unlimited time. And the other statistical data that President Stanjura has presented here shows, in principle, that our proposal is not entirely simple in terms of achieving a binding result, that it is in its own way strict. Because if we applied him to the Slovak experience, there's one big difference. There is a big difference in whether you set a 50% condition for participation or a limit of 25 per cent of all citizens for or against the proposed issue. The referendum in Slovakia was often unsuccessful because the strategy of the opponents proposed the question was a call for no participation. So they deliberately reduced their participation so that the referendum would be null and void and that a binding result of the referendum could not be achieved. The 25 per cent, I think, is a more solid condition for a certain number of votes, because it excludes this strategy, and it is necessary to actively seek votes on the one hand for, on the other hand against, if I want to succeed with my position. But even here, if we look at the statistical data from Slovakia, much of the referendums would not be binding on the outcome, but probably a little more than in Slovakia. For example, where there would be 40% participation, it is already conceivable. And the 50 per cent for participation and the 25 per cent for or against the question really, to some extent, is based on our thinking that we have modeled, if 50% is participating, 25 per cent in this case + 1 leads to a binding result in the referendum. One more question, which was raised here before the beginning of this point, and how signatures will be collected under the petition. Of course, we are also based on the current regulation for the presidential election. We assume it should be the same. Whatever the adjustment for the future, the regime should be the same when it comes to obtaining signatures under a petition for the presidential candidacy as well as to launching a referendum. This will, of course, be the subject of the debate in the implementing law, which will undoubtedly be related to the envisaged amendment to the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. From the point of view of some of the questions that might not be voted, I can even imagine that it could take place, as the proposal has been formulated, a referendum on the shortening of the parliamentary term. I just don't consider it entirely practical or certain from the point of view of the instigators of such a referendum to achieve the desired outcome. Because, of course, there are some time procedures, first the estimated six months to get signatures, then there are some other deadlines. The question is whether this will end before such a referendum. And then it is precisely the case where the government would be obliged to hold a referendum and therefore probably submit a draft constitutional law to the Chamber of Deputies, but it is not clear that both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate would approve such a draft constitutional law. Because this is precisely the case where, although Parliament cannot adopt a resolution, including a bill that contradicts the outcome of the referendum, it cannot be forced to vote in favour of something given the lack of commitment of the mandate of Members and Senators. But, of course, if the referendum is 90 per cent, and almost everyone says that the term of office is to be shortened, then perhaps on a political level, such a referendum will have quite serious political implications. So we could go through a whole bunch of possible questions here. When there was mention of EET in relation to taxes or to the budget, I would just point out here that when we rule out a vote on a budget or, for example, taxes, tax rates, that this does not mean that there is no referendum on anything that has to do with a budget or taxes. Because, for example, the budget is essentially linked to any decision, or almost, because there is usually some expenditure associated with it, sometimes also income. So, in that sense, to interpret the exclusion of the vote on the budget as being impossible to vote on anything that may ultimately have something to do with spending, I think it is impossible. And that's definitely not where the bill goes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u14	Thank you. I'm registering a few factual remarks. Mr Stanjura has the first, followed by Mr Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u15	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I hope you listened to the Minister correctly. He confirmed what I said it was such a trick. He said it right. No one will force you to vote according to the outcome of the referendum. What does that mean? We can discuss political conventions, what public opinion would do, what the media would do. But that's reality. That's what it said. We talked about this a year ago, when we were discussing it in that circle of representatives of all the political parties, about the fact that the bill, if I simplify it a little bit, was like this: very hard to get signatures. If you happen to find them, you will find it very difficult to find the question which can be in the referendum under this law. If you get away with this, you'll find it very hard to get 25 percent of the voters for. And if you get it, the MPs and senators don't have to vote accordingly. He may not vote against it, but he may not vote for it. And that's a big difference. First of all. Two. The criticism - you have avoided, Minister, the answers to the question about the adoption of the euro. If the Government's bill made it possible to hold a referendum on the adoption of the euro, then we will not say that we also want a special law. But this bill does not allow for a vote. And then it's just a request. I didn't suggest 700 grand. I just miscounted it just like you did. I didn't suggest it. We won't even suggest it. I don't think so - I just pointed out that if we used a normal mathematical formula, it's 700,000. But try to say, if you mean it, how do you push the results of the referendum into Czech legislation? How easy it is to get signatures, pick a question, get 25 percent of the voters, and then what will be the disillusionment when it all turns out, the three first steps, the very hard ones, aren't gonna end well that step number four. [[Time warning]] And disillusionment is worse than not having the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u16	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'll read the note. Today, from 12.30 pm to the end of the day, Mr Šincl apologises, on 10. 3. and 11. 3. For working reasons, Mr Zemánek apologizes. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Černoch, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u17	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to set the record straight: it wasn't sad, Mr. Secretary. This was an argument that we will want to change, because if we are talking about a question that currently concerns 90 percent of citizens, so if the legal standards are wrong, then at that point it is necessary to change the legal standards so that, for example, migration can be expressed in a referendum. Because we're taking this as a crucial question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u18	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Grospič. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Your point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, of course, I perceive the hecticity of the debate. I am also ready for a proper debate. Anyway, what's going on right now reminds me of one moment in the first place. The Moment, which was contradicted by the government itself when it gave a dissenting opinion on the proposal of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, or Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which was submitted here on 6 February 2014. And it was then that she argued that it was contrary and very unclear to set out the subject of the referendum - it was precisely the question of breach of the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. I am therefore very pleased that the debate on this subject has now opened up, because the question of adopting the euro, the question of migrants and other issues related to this should be clarified here. Perhaps it would be a good thing if the Minister, as he promised to respond immediately, explained significantly more closely how he felt about these things, how they were justified in the government. Because in the future the interpretation of this provision will then be dependent purely on the court, namely from the Constitutional Court, not from the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u20	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u21	Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a draft constitutional law, which is not every day or every week or every month. It's an extremely important thing. Look at these benches behind me. Not around, follow me. [[Government benches.]] Nobody. In the spirit of this government proposal, to avoid being strict, I will put forward a procedural proposal to interrupt this point until 25 per cent of the members of the government are present. And if I round it down, it's four ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u22	Thank you. I have noted your procedural proposal. I'll call my colleagues and my colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will repeat the proposal that we will vote on. It is a procedural proposal for this item to be interrupted, its deliberations, until 25 per cent of the members of the government, i.e. four members, are present. Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 337, registered 104 Members, for proposal 25, against 66. The motion was denied. We will continue the debate. I don't see anyone else with a point of fact. Minister Dienstbier reports with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u23	I will try to make a brief statement on some things. What President Stanjura said here - to force Members, virtually. Senators, vote actively for some law. I do not know if you would consider it constitutionally conformary in terms of those principles which are part of our constitutional order if, in the draft constitutional law, we made you an obligation to vote actively for something. That's... well... So then I do not understand the questioning of this principle, which is contained in the proposal. But he's not that toothless. On that matter that you are interested in, and that is the electronic record of sales, if you had achieved a referendum that would have said - or which would have resulted in citizens not wanting electronic records of sales, Parliament could not have approved such a bill. That is not quite the weak result of the referendum from the point of view of its binding nature. There's no way I'm calling for it. I'm just modeling. As far as the adoption of the euro is concerned, there I think the legal interpretation is clear. This is our legal commitment, once we have fulfilled the conditions that result from European law, including primary law, into the euro. That's the commitment we've taken. Probably - and God forbid I would call for such a thing - the only way to get out of such a commitment without the consent of all the other Member States is to get out of the European Union, which I think - I hope - no one who is in their right mind wants in terms of the interests of the Czech Republic. [[12.50 hours]] Mr Grospič's question. I don't know if there's room for an extensive interpretation. I did not see it as an objection to the fact that the proposal for such a provision contained. In fact, I have already said that I consider it unacceptable for a vote to be made about someone violating their legal obligations. But I can imagine a referendum that would involve possible state action in terms of taking on some other commitments from international treaties. I hope that this is enough for the moment, I assume that the next debate is possibly in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u24	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, under the Rules of Procedure, to respond to my previous speaker's speech. I haven't been with him by any chance, but this previous speaker here defended the referendum as something very important and something that could increase our level of democracy and strengthen our prestige. Let me quote his speech at the Federal Assembly in 1992. I'm not gonna quote him whole, don't worry, I've only got a few sentences: "At the same time, I would like to warn against widespread and one might say a populist illusion, which is based on the view that the voice of the people is the voice of God and that what cannot be corrected by Parliament will be fixed by citizens. Please consider the simple fact that e.g. During the Middle Ages and even later centuries, the majority of the public was inclined to burn witches, and that it was the power that banned this burning long before the public opinion of the then inhabitants took place. I would therefore like to warn against the non-critical reliance on the referendum, and I wish that this and any future parliament would never approve this." Miloš Zeman, January 21, 1992. Miloš Zeman was still a responsible politician. Since then, he's become an unbridled populist, so he's been telling us something else here today. But it's good to compare the speeches, they're on a parliamentary stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u26	Thank you. Now I do not see an application with priority rights or a factual point, in which case we will continue the general debate, as is the case with individual Members. Mr Okamura will appear first and Mr Plíšek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, after 27 years of the fall of the government of one party and the establishment of a power monopoly for party oligarchy, we are talking again about introducing democracy in the Czech Republic, a system in which the people rule and not partisan elites separated from the real world of normal people. The first step towards this is the law on a general referendum. I say again, because our draft constitutional law for a truly broad democratic referendum here was rejected two years ago. I have proposed and I still propose that citizens should be able to vote on any issues without a restrictive treaty of compulsory participation, and that a petition for 100,000 citizens' signatures should suffice to call for a referendum, according to the proposal of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement of the SPD. At the same time, the outcome of the referendum should be binding on both the Government and Parliament, which, however, does not include a government proposal. Thus, similar conditions as it has for a referendum e.g. Switzerland, which we would certainly like to approach by living standards. Of course, no one, not even I, suspects our elitist sons, headed by the current Czech government, would really allow any real democracy in the Czech Republic. So there is now a bill of referendum before us, which is, in fact, just a list of reasons not to make a referendum or nullify it. It is shameful that the right to real democracy still needs to be defended in our country in the 21st century. The greatest enemy of democracy is and will be the elites attached to today's power and to public funds. In the bill's proposal, the government precautionaryly prohibits voting on the very most important things that are bothering people. In the opinion of our government, a citizen is obliged to open his pocket and spend money on various forms of government, but he must not make any decisions about his money, i.e. taxes. I will mention the example of Switzerland, where the VAT rate can be voted on in a referendum, that is, value added tax, and also VAT, for example. voted in Switzerland last year. Citizens were good to the government when they voted to join the European Union in a referendum, but today the government and the entire Parliament are already denying them the right to vote on a possible speech. And the Government's bill also expressly prohibits voting on the abolition of international treaties. If citizens could vote on the signing of the treaty, why can't they vote on its termination? It doesn't make sense. Of course, this completely contradicts the concept of a democratic European state, where, according to the Constitution, all power belongs to citizens, not party elites. The Government's proposal also prohibits citizens from deciding in a referendum on the possible adoption or non-acceptance of the euro. The government also prohibits citizens from voting on human rights. Are you afraid, ministers, that people would vote for a constitutional right to unlimited justice? The Government's proposal also expressly prohibits voting on removal from office. I understand that political gangsters associated with some thieving billionaires are terrified that citizens would take them off their throne. And e.g. Mr Dienstbier and Mr Sobotka, the authors of this pasquila and the parody of a decent law, would now be, according to many citizens, perhaps the first adepts, not only because of the promotion of illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic, who could be dismissed by reason of their functions. What the so-called democratic politicians are most terrified of is democracy. Senator Dienstbier summed up his objections in his simplicity in a single thought, unsurprisingly also simple and sincere, and I quote him directly: "It is not possible for voters to call off politicians, because today some senators have chosen only 10 percent of the electorate. Getting more than 10 percent for their appeal would then be extremely simple and the post of many senators could be very easily endangered." End of Minister Dienstbier's quote. Yes, Mr Sobotka, yes, Mr Dienstbier, yes, our supreme elite, it must be easy to call you off, so that you, too, simply realize that you are in Parliament only by the will of the voters and only until you listen to them. What is frightening for you, on the contrary, is joyful for voters. In a democracy he has and must take precedence over the will and joy of a citizen over the joy of elite sons or godfathers. Work for the citizens with all your strength, and then you don't have to worry about the appeal. You approve fair laws, and you don't have to worry about people abolishing them in referendums. It's just democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have those reservations about the law for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, more, but on the other hand, we are grateful that we have the opportunity to discuss a referendum at all. Our SPD movement, of course, has prepared its own bill on the referendum, in which it would be possible to vote without restrictions, more precisely the only restriction could be placed by the Constitutional Court, which should have the power to examine constitutionality of the questions in the referendum. Another similar bill on a truly democratic referendum, however, was rejected by the votes of your government coalition ČSSD, ANO and KDU-ČSL, a law where citizens could actually vote on the whole spectrum of questions. There would be a much lower number of signatures under the citizens' petition, and there would also be another treaty. I'll get to that. However, to be constructive, we have also prepared amendments to this government proposal for our SPD movement. First of all, we will propose to remove pointless conditions in a government proposal that restrict topics and issues in referendums. The abolition of such conditions is logical, since in the elections of Members or Senators, citizens vote on the multi-page agenda points of individual parties without restrictions, so it is logical to allow citizens to vote on one point without limitation, which is precisely the question in the referendum and the referendum is even much easier for citizens to decide than to decide on the comprehensive agenda of individual political parties in the elections. A citizen's voice has the same weight, whether it is the election of party programmes or a referendum on one question. There is therefore no reason to limit questions. Furthermore, in the next amendment for our SPD movement, we propose to reduce the unrealistic astronomical number of signatures required for a referendum from 250,000 signatures to 100,000 signatures. Even so, it is much more in proportion to the size comparable Switzerland, which, at least for me, is the standard of real democracy and prosperity, a country where our SPD movement would direct our republic in the morning. Unlike your government, the ČSSD, the YES and KDU-ČSL movement, which do exactly the opposite, which we can see in the submitted Government Act on the referendum. [[13.00 hours]] As the third and last amendment at the moment, we will propose to abolish your proposed nonsensically high quorum determining the minimum participation of voters in the validity of the referendum. We come from a very clear premise that whoever doesn't vote, so does. No vote says that it gives the mandate to decide who goes to the elections. After all, this rule applies to all current elections in the Czech Republic and there is no kvorum in any elections in the Czech Republic. And yet the choice is true even if only one voter came to the election. There is therefore no logical reason to impose a quorum on the referendum except for the reason that the government does not really want to accept any valid referendum. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFFFF} Of course, it is also necessary to make the outcome of the referendum binding on both the Government and Parliament, i.e. that, in terms of the outcome of the referendum, they have to adopt the law bindingly, which, of course, is logically lacking in the government's proposal for a referendum, because the government does not really want a referendum, a functional referendum, where citizens could have the last word. So, as I said before, this government proposal is really just a travesty to referendums and democracy, and it's just a demonstration of the arrogance and hypocrisy of this government, which isn't even absolutely incredible anymore, because I'm saying it all the time, it's an absolutely incredible, stronger word I can't think of. Moreover, we have a precedent, once again in the referendum, about joining the European Union, which took place ten years ago. When we look at the law on this referendum at the time, we are surprised to find that there was not even a quorum for its validity. That means, even this fact only demonstrates the incredible hypocrisy of the government's proposal. Of course, for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, I say that we are happy for any move towards a direct democracy, so we will also support the bill of referendum in this downright form, but of course we will continue to fight for changes in this law, i.e. for changes to real democracy in the Czech Republic. In particular, and in more detail, we will present our amendments during the so-called second reading of the law. Finally, I would like to thank the President, who spoke here a few moments ago, for the very courageous support of direct democracy and the introduction of direct democracy in the Swiss style, that is, what I have been trying to do in the Czech Republic for almost ten years now, and I think it is a very important historical moment in the Czech Republic that, for the first time in the House of Deputies, the President expressed quite openly, quite openly, public support for the introduction of direct democracy following the Swiss pattern, i.e. a model of one of the most advanced countries in the world. That's what I think is a moment that we should all remember. And I'm going to say here in this context, like I've said many times at different meetings, that one day the direct democracy will still be here. You're resisting this, your government and the ODS and the TOP 09, but there's going to be this direct democracy, people are sick of it, this system where politicians do what they want, against the will of citizens, and yet, even after little steps, people are going to use that real democracy. As far as the President's speech is concerned, I would like to respond to one more of his ideas by supporting the Act on the Direct Election of Mayors and Governors. And I would just remind you that this law was proposed by our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, by the SPD, by my mouth, I was the proponent of the law, here in the Chamber of Deputies, and again last year this time, I suspect it was last February, you rejected it here. Yes, the government coalition, the ČSSD, the ANO and the KDU-ČSL movement, along with the ODS and the TOP 09, rejected the Act on the Direct Choice of Governors and Mayors. I proposed there, it was a constitutional law, so that the possibility of rebuttal of these politicians was created, there was room for direct choice and rebuttal of politicians, and you rejected this law because you really don't want any democracy. And let me just remind you that what I and our SPD movement are pushing here, and as it turns out, as well as today, the President of the Republic, we are the de facto last country in Central Europe who does not have a direct choice of mayors or captains. The Slovák, the Polák have it, the Němec have it. This means what we are trying to do here in the long run, there are no news, we are not trying to try anything, they are long-term models, and on the contrary, we are desperately trying to move the Czech Republic at least to the level of democracy, even in countries that are, I would say, to the east of us, and I do not mean that any longer pejoratively. That means I wanted to thank the President again for the open support of direct democracy, and I hope that the government coalition will at least think about it a little bit, the comedy he's doing here, and hopefully. But after I know Mr. Dienstbier and his views and Prime Minister Sobotka, I can't hope that these government proposals should in any way move forward. They must decide when the voters in the next election and I hope they will decide to win the parties that have direct democracy in the programme, whatever party it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u28	Next, Mr Leoš Heger will speak with a factual remark and Mr Plíšek will be prepared with a speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u29	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. I apologize for speaking only with a brief factual remark on this very serious subject, but I believe that the subject is so serious that it has been dealt with for several hundred years by people who have dealt with the state science and the theory of democracy, it is a topic that really deserves a debate that will have some level of constitutionality at which we are negotiating. That's why I wanted to get rid of the odor that the previous speaker here has provoked. And I must say that even with a bit of a rude tone, as President Kalousek spoke here, stating how the President saw the whole thing earlier and how he sees it now, it could not have been a better introduction to what was said here by my previous speaker. I would have ended up a little positive, so I just want to appreciate how this law was presented here by both the translator and the rapporteur, with a very good analysis of the history and current events that appear around the referendum. Perhaps I would just add a certain appeal to further discussions that we should turn to, or hear more, the analyses that are based on the theorists of constitutional and lawyers who are professionally concerned with this subject, because it is really quite basic and very complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u30	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Plíšek, Mr Lank will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u31	Have a nice afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. Let me also interpret the opinion for TOP 09. We do not agree with this draft constitutional law, not because we do not want to implement the Constitution. The Constitution assumes that the constitutional law determines when the people exercise power directly, but does not say that it must be based on the Act on a general referendum. It can also be based on a one-off constitutional law. So I want to say no to this claim that this proposal only meets the Constitution. This is not the case, there are two ways, and the government is choosing the path of a general referendum with a fairly broad list of things to vote on. [[13.10 hours]] I would call this draft constitutional law a really more of a game and a fake referendum and its implications, because the referendum and its results bind the executive power, the government, but, as has already been said here, Parliament has not, apart from the negative, that Parliament cannot adopt a resolution or a bill which will be contrary to the outcome of the referendum. But as far as the positive result of the referendum is concerned, no one can force the legislator to vote in any way. Let me give you a very specific example here. For example, according to this draft constitutional law, there could be a referendum on maximum speed on the 200 km/h motorway. Let us say that this referendum would be a good thing, a positive thing. The government would have to submit a relevant bill, because most of the fundamental decisions are made in our country through the law. Even if the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Health did not agree to such a proposal and the Government might not agree with it, it would still have to submit this proposal to Parliament. I cannot imagine Parliament approving a maximum speed bill on the 200 km/h motorway. And of course, there would be more examples that could be voted on, which would be contrary to the conscience of Members or Senators, and even if the government did not agree to that. Of course, there is also the risk of nullity of referendums and of spending large funds on their actions. Slovakia was mentioned here, where almost all the referendums were invalid. And I do not think that the amendment of thevories that are in this draft constitutional law would help to make this referendum valid. On the contrary, I think that the role of political representation should be to increase citizens' participation in elections. We have several types of election here. That's a direct democracy. I reject the claim that this constitutional law introduces a direct democracy here. All the elections we have here - the House, the Senate, the regional, the municipal, the presidential, the European Parliament - these are direct democracies, and they are direct elections. So let us not say here that we are introducing a direct democracy with this constitutional law. I also have to be here after listening here today, and I think we will hear it today, to worry about some abuse of referendums by various populist, nationalist or xenophobic movements that will want to achieve some of their goals through referendums, and it is not always so easy to say that this referendum cannot be held. I am then curious to see how Parliament would react. It is clear there, of course, that he would not have to approve such a thing, but how the government would have stood up to it in its executive power, because the government, of course, is governed by laws, but also lays down regulations for their implementation and also introduces conceptual policies, so if it would then have to meet these conclusions in its executive activity as well. I would call this bill an expensive opinion poll for the government. Government, or virtually. Social democracy seems to be in this regard, but the other parties will make a point of it, fulfilling part of their agenda, but it will not do any good in terms of reality. Rather, we really need to do everything we can to ensure that, for example, participation in Senate elections is not as trivial as we are witnessing it. So for these fundamental reasons, I propose that we either reject this proposal at first reading or, alternatively, return the petitioner to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u32	Thank you. I'll make a note of your suggestions. The Minister shall be given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u33	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would briefly respond to Mr Plíšek's speech. I take it as a legitimate view that it should not be a referendum, that we should have a purely representative democracy and not adopt any law. What I understand less is that on the one hand, the TOP 09 comes with this view, and on the other hand, it criticizes that the proposal is too restrictive. I said a certain degree of restrictiveness was the result of a compromise. I would understand if the TOP 09 here declared that if the proposal was referred to committee, it would propose an increase in the number of petitions from 250,000 to 400,000, that it would increase the threshold for the binding nature of the referendum and so on, if it believes that it should be as limited as possible. But it doesn't seem entirely fair to me that criticism from one side, that it shouldn't actually be at all, and from the other side, that it's too strictly set up. This seems to me to be a rather strange approach in terms of criticism. It feels a little bit like criticism at all costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u34	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Plíšek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u35	Thank you. Minister through Mr President, I do not know if you want to discuss this proposal at first reading today because you are actually responding to everything. But I guess you didn't quite listen to me. On the other hand, at that 200-mile speed on the highway, I also criticised the scope of the questions that could be voted on. But then I also considered the functionality and feasibility of your proposal, because the referendum, as we know, from the point of view of financial costs, is not a cheap issue, so that you do not submit something that will not work in real life, it will be null and void, except that our state budget will have to spare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u36	Thank you. Now next in line, and this is Mr Lank. Mrs Havlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u37	Mr President, we want a referendum, we ask for a referendum and it is still the cornerstone of our programme. [[only Minister Herman and Minister Brabec sit in the government bench]] We will therefore also support this law. However, I admit that with a certain gnashing of teeth, because don't be mad at me, this hasn't been completely successful. I would like to criticize, in particular, those paragraphs relating to the number of signatures required under the petition. The hard limit is that the petition proposal has to be signed by 250,000 citizens. So let's look at history and find that it is the number of signatures that have been collected only twice in the history of the Czech Republic. Reports from the Committee on Petitions adopted show that this number was collected only under a petition against the location of the US radar, which had over 300,000 signatures, and the second case with such a high number of petents is a petition from the Bloc against Islam on immigration quotas, which has 250,000 signatures. Moreover, the government limits the time to collect to six months. It must also be noted that the petition organisers will have to collect 300,000 real signatures to ensure that the referendum is written. As we have seen from past practice, the Ministry will not accept much of the signatures without giving reasons. Unfortunately, petitioners can't fight this, they simply have to collect more signatures. It's very exploitable even in combination with the fact that it's only been mentioned for six months to collect signatures. We're suggesting that the necessary signatures be a maximum of 100,000. It is not little, and it guarantees that a referendum can be made on the most important issues, not once every two decades. The problem is also a forum for participation. In order for the referendum to be valid, at least 25% of all citizens must vote in favour. Let us not confuse this with the vote. It would have to be up to 49 percent theoretically if the result was 25 to 24 percent. In other words, if we have a plus or minus 8.5 million eligible voters in the Czech Republic, then if 2 million people come to the referendum under these conditions and everyone is willing to vote in favour, then the referendum will be the same, virtually. its result will not be valid. This will put us in a position to write a referendum maybe once every 15 years. If that's how you imagine people's right to make decisions, then we don't. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, the dawn has already passed a law on a functional referendum that you have rejected for us, and we are not going to give up on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u38	Thank you. I note Mr Tejc's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u39	Thank you. In short, I would only react to what was said to the border. Of course, we remember the time when the local referendum, i.e. the referendum in the municipalities, had a mandatory 50 percent turnout, and at that moment it was valid, but it was not binding. There was a compromise then. I was the initiate of the change, so I remember it very well. In the end, despite opposition from the right, we gained one coalition party for a change, and one of the proposals finally received support. We agreed that participation would be reduced to 35 percent, I believe, is there today for participation. However, so that the referendum would be valid and there could be no objection that only a close majority of 35 percent would decide, we said that at least 25 percent of all voters would be needed to address the issue. It means it's a certain defense against making those who do not want to come to the elections, respectively. to the referendum, because they are opposed and play not to come and vote against, but to the fact that the referendum will not be binding because 50 per cent of the electorate will not participate, they could not calculate and rather come. I admit, I've already mentioned it, there are more models. We're hearing you tighten the line to 50 percent here. Lower the border to 35 percent and have no majority. I think we can talk about this by the petitioners, but also by me as chairman of the constitutional committee, there is a clear offer that these are parametric changes that can be discussed. I certainly don't want us to get stuck on this one and not be able to make a deal. I think we can submit all options to a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u40	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond here to Mr Tejc, who has come upon me, I must say, a smile. Not so much in the wrong sense, because the local referendum law has been mentioned here for more than two years. I would just like to remind you here how this government behaves in ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. My amendment to the law that I presented at the time, the amendment to the local referendum law, has been here for almost two years, in this House. The government coalition refuses to put her on the floor of the House's agenda. That's democracy in practice. You don't want democracy in the Czech Republic to take place here at all. We're proposing in the bill, in the amendment, to cut the deal right now. Reduce the call for a local referendum, which today is 5%. There's another condition. So a whole series of local referendums, where people quite clearly expressed rejection, it was a year ago, two years ago, the rejection of slot machines and other matters, so it was nullified, even though the will of the citizens was proven. And this law has been here for over two years. And you just reject him at the plenary meeting. This means that this is really the culmination that instead of allowing democratic debate over the laws - and that is not the only law that has been here for almost two years. It's for example. my bill for the full ban on slot machines in the Czech Republic. So here you are again succumbing to the gambling lobby and playing a game like you're restricting slot machines while you continue to allow them and you're squeezing money on them. That means, I just wanted to say that you reminded me of the incredible situation that exists here under your rule.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u42	The next one will be Mrs Havlová. Mrs Hnyková will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u43	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I do not know if any of you have registered that they have been created on the basis of the Act on the referendum of the citizens' initiative, which has prepared their own Act on the referendum. That is why I think this law is very important to citizens. The citizens' initiative has been created across the Republic by people who are funded. I was invited to one of their meetings. I was quite surprised at the way this law was prepared, and the final version is already on the table. However, I would stop by today on a series of questions that are forbidden for the referendum in this law that is being put forward. My colleague, Marek Černoch, has already talked about issues of international commitments. However, in Article 2, the Government lists other issues to be banned for referendums. It says that the referendum must not concern the state budget or tax collection. Citizens could not decide either on state financial policy or on taxes or social security or on public health insurance. I am not quite sure if this is a good thing, because even the Minister himself was in conflict with me just a moment ago, in that it is not forbidden for people to decide on any of these chapters that they want to raise or reduce. They can't even decide that they want to give more money to secure national borders, depending on how it's presented here. The explanatory memorandum states that protection should be maintained for the rationality of state financial policy. I find it incredible how the Minister of Human Rights elevates the government's view of all citizens of the Czech Republic. You're acting like the government is infallible, and you're making citizens look like fools. Isn't protecting state borders rational at the moment? Take, for example, how only the last two governments ruled the country. One government reduces pensions, the other increases pensions. One government increases VAT, the other lowers VAT. One government will implement a reform of the pension system, the other will overdo the whole thing. One government cuts to the bone, the other throws away. I'll even find a contradiction in the current government. Medical fees will be lifted, and the Minister of Finance will say it was a mistake. Three VAT rates will be introduced, and Minister Babiš will once again say that it will come back. Does that really strike you as the government's infallible rationality? Does this rationality really need protection from referendums and citizens' views? Let me give you some examples from Switzerland. Do you think there's been a breakdown in the tax system? No. People critically think about every vote and take their responsibility seriously. For example. three quarters of the electorate rejected the exemption of state contributions to children from taxation. Last year, 71 percent of the voters rejected the national inheritance tax. On the contrary, the overwhelming support was to strengthen the regulation of gambling, for which 87 percent of the people were in 2012. In the same year, such popular support for building savings was rejected. Different county, different morals. But what's important. People aren't stupid as the Minister here is trying to tell us. If I take some decisions from Sobotkův's government, I believe that citizens would make better decisions. I will support the law until second reading, where I believe that amendments will change this law. After all, it is important to listen to the voice of the people at last. To encourage national pride by sharing in important matters on their own rather than just standing by and swearing. That is why the referendum criteria must be adapted so as to be functional and not simply by law for the law. Let's finally give people confidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u44	Thank you, too. I note Mr Volný's point of fact, but I don't see him anywhere here. Well, in that case, we'll keep going. Now, Mrs Hnyková. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I would like to focus in my speech on one of the parameters of the referendum, which is electoral participation. We've been talking about her. The Government's bill sets the kvorum by such a mechanism that, as has already been said, a decision from the referendum must vote in favour of at least 25 per cent of all citizens entitled to vote in the referendum. Please, let us not confuse this with participation in the vote. And as my colleague Lank said here, it would have to be up to 49 percent if the result was 25: 24 percent. We consider such conditions extremely strict given what percentage of people are voting in the Czech Republic. To get an idea, I'm going to give the numbers on participation in some of our elections. For example, to the European Parliament in 2004 28,3 %, 2009 28,2 % and 2014 only 18,2 %. We can also sharpen the Senate elections. Perhaps the lowest participation in the history of Prague 10, second round in 2014 only 8.7 % participation. But it's not an exception. Chomutov for example in 2007 9.0 % participation, Karviná 2014 10.4 %, Sokolov 2012 10.4 %, Chomutov 2012 11.8 % and I could continue. I ask, are these elections invalid? Is the mandate resulting from elections with such low participation in any way qualitatively different? It's not. The elections are just valid, and we're moving on. I do not understand why the same principle cannot apply to referendums. I don't vote means expressing my opinion. Such a person expresses his opinion that the question is not important and that he lets others decide for themselves. Our proposal for a referendum has no vote of participation, just as it is in all elections. Dawn will propose that the government's bill be changed in this way. This discussion has come to my attention, and I would not like to conclude on our one Czech proverb, that the wolf should eat and the goat remain whole. That's towards you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u46	Thank you. The rapporteur shall make a factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u47	I'm sorry, but I have to respond to the performance to understand exactly how the limit is set at 25 percent. I've heard here for the second time that this may mean that, in order for the referendum to be binding, that means that 25 per cent will come and then the remaining 49 per cent will be counted, which means that the participation must be 49 per cent. Exactly, if hypothetically it had the right to vote for 100 citizens, then if 26 came to those elections and voted 'yes', she won the 'yes' question. If, of course, 30 citizens come to these elections and 26 are in favour, then all you have to do is four... those three are against, and that decision is taken. That means there's no 30, 40, 50 percent participation. They must simply always vote for the one question to be binding, at least 25 per cent of the voters. This, of course, means that it is not possible to destroy the referendum by not taking part in it. So, on the other hand, we are trying to protect, in the context of the setting, the way the referendum is set, that the referendum does not become invalid or be non-binding in the event that part of the people decide not to participate in it, and we are trying to set a threshold that ensures some legitimacy. I understand that we can debate that there will be no border, but then there will be exactly the other side of the objection, which is here, why there is no 50 percent participation. And that is certainly something that must be discussed. So it's a compromise, but I understand that it's not acceptable for everyone. But I'm trying to explain that there's really no need for 49 or 50 percent of people to come in. All he has to do is come in 25 out of 100 and vote in favour of that particular question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u48	Thank you. So now Mr Grospič and Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I am aware that time has progressed and that it should probably be in the interests of all of us that this bill should be passed to committees today, unless, of course, it is rejected or returned for revision. In this regard, I would like to point out that I am personally sorry that the KSČM parliamentary club The Chamber of Deputies then - and especially the votes of the Government Members - rejected the House's press under number 116, which the KSČM MP club presented to this House on 6 February 2014 - has been repeatedly, but I am talking about this parliamentary term - which dealt with the proposal for a national referendum. At the time, the Government justified its position on this bill by its opposition and argued that the draft constitutional law was not sufficiently linked to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the proposed legislation approving the bill of referendum is not reflected in the provisions of the Constitution of the Czech Republic governing the process of negotiating and approving draft laws and expressing the consent of the Chambers of Parliament to ratify international treaties. That the draft constitutional law further assumes that it will be able to change or cancel the result of the referendum only by constitutional law, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. That the draft constitutional law assumes that a popular vote could also take place on the appeal of the head of state, given that the legislation does not allow this. That the draft constitutional law protects only the power of the court from the integration of the referendum. That there is no minimum quorum in the draft constitutional law, which would set the right limit for voting citizens necessarily necessary for the validity of the results of the referendum, which, combined with the proposed limit at the time, would have led to an undesirable phenomenon in bringing forward the proposal for a referendum, which, in combination with the number of petents, could have been decided by a significant minority of entitled persons. Also, according to the Government's opinion, the draft constitutional law did not clearly exclude whether or not an advisory referendum should be relevant and whether it is also envisaged as an advisory consultative voice in its own way, or if it is to be binding on the state authorities. In line with this, the Government also stated that the reason in question - and so we, as a KSČM club, also understood - is, above all, the reason that it will submit its own proposal to the Government and any proposal from opposition Members, especially the KSČM, is of course not suitable for any government or this Chamber of Deputies in this situation. I would therefore like to draw attention to the moment that, in our draft law which was then tabled, the subject of the referendum was defined in the following way: In a referendum, it can decide on fundamental matters of the internal or foreign policy of the State, as well as on other important issues of public interest. The subject of a referendum cannot be constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights and freedoms, taxes and levies or other valid obligations to public budgets and the state budget, the exercise of judicial power, the appointment of individual persons in office and their removal from office except for the President of the Republic, a change in the essential requirements of the democratic rule of law. There is also no decision in the referendum on matters which would be contrary to the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. [[13.40 hours]] Now we have a government bill before us, and for comparison I also want to read the subject - Article 2, which governs the subject of the referendum. In the referendum, decisions may be taken on matters of internal or foreign policy of the State, with the exception of decisions on fundamental rights and freedoms, the State budget and matters outside the principles of legal regulation or the administration of taxes, fees or other similar financial transactions, infringements of obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic, the appointment of individuals in office and their removal from functions, individual rights and obligations. Legislation cannot be approved by the referendum. I think the content of both articles, although perhaps otherwise formulated, is almost identical. What is not the same and what I think we should deal with in the context of this bill, if it is released for second reading in the committees and here in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, is the question of the number of petents, when 250,000 petents for citizens of the Czech Republic actually appear to be quite high and really unattainable. Then we should consider the procedure set out in Article 5 Review of the proposal for a referendum. This proposal raises on me and this procedure - a much identical procedure, which was once mentioned in the proposal for a referendum, submitted by the previous right-wing government in the previous parliamentary term, which makes it impossible and will make it impossible to hold a referendum in fact. These are the moments that I wanted to draw attention to here, which the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia also wants to draw attention to, with the fact that it will not hinder the release of this law to second reading. It considers it very positive that at least this proposal has shifted really in time and discussion into a phase where we are talking again about the proposal for a national referendum, although we have a number of factual and technical reservations on the proposal, but we firmly believe that the government coalition will also be perceptive and will take a substantive interest in the discussion that will take place, where appropriate, in the committee of the Chamber of Deputies and at second reading here in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Benda is now duly registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u51	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not promise you that I will be brief, I will certainly not be brief on this matter. I would like to comment on the bill tabled here and on the presentation of the President of the Republic which presented it. I know that it is as if it were said outside the debate, but given that it was a speech by the President of the Republic on the floor of this House and on this bill, I think it is quite legitimate in the debate on this bill to respond to the President of the Republic's withdrawal. The President of the Republic has visited us three times so far, I think always with the least substantial bills that we are discussing here, but that is, of course, his and my point of view. What I think is a big problem is that the President of the Republic from this place quotes from the speaker's desk the country's Prime Minister's stolen e-mails. From e-mails that should never have been published, of course. Where there's a complete scandal that the Czech newspaper only prints them with reference to the fact that some American server managed to steal them - or I don't know where they were lying, now I don't want to say American - foreign server could steal them and hang them somewhere. Then they start quoting the Czech newspaper. It's already on the verge of a criminal prosecution against invasion of privacy. And then the President of the Republic, here, here from this place, quotes from such an e-mail and calls back to him for confirmation? To me, it seems completely unthinkable, completely bordering, so that we can really learn to play with the fact that when something is stolen and released somewhere, we can already work with it freely. I'd say that's the first point about what happened here this morning, which I find very controversial. The second thing about the general ideas of the President of the Republic about the elections, the swaying which - but maybe only there from the right hand side was moments from his mouth sounded like a panting, where wine is rummaging. He's pausing on election candidates to vote through election candidates. But the great and, once again, clearly supported here, even on the Slovak example, the belief in the direct choice of mayors, or the direct choice of captains, is beautiful and kind. We all know who we were dealing with, that this operation is extremely difficult, that it would mean a fundamental rewriting of both regional and municipal rules and meetings of representatives, the composition of the board and other things. But I would just like to remind the President of the Republic from this place that this is how Mr Kotleba was created in Slovakia, whom he himself calls a fascist or a cryptophasist today. This was created precisely in a way that the Slovák have enacted a direct election of the captains, and they now have a party on which the whole of Europe, all the surrounding states believe, is a huge problem for the foreign representation of the Slovak Republic. Well, that's three of my remarks to the President of the Republic. I must say, I have been greatly disappointed in many ways. Furthermore, I would like to address this bill as submitted by the government. You know that I am not a supporter of national referendums, a general referendum at national level in no form. I'm saying it openly. I don't think it's something that would enrich our constitutional system, I've said it from this place many times. I think that the possibility enshrined in the Constitution to hold a referendum in situations that really are of fundamental importance to the country, that is, are approved by constitutional law, the Constitution gives, also that opportunity has already been used once in the past and I see no reason for us to dramatically expand this possibility at national level. There are European countries, such as neighbouring Germany, which also do not have such an option, and we do not undoubtedly regard them as an undemocratic country. But if we are going the way that we want, or the government, and apparently the majority in this Chamber of Deputies wants a bill on national referendums, they want to push it, so I think that this proposal should have at least some minimal internal logic. At least some minimal internal consistency. Which seems to me the government didn't quite succeed. And I would like to draw attention to this at first reading, before we go into committee meetings, so that, if necessary, we can then make amendments to the committees, which would be aimed at making this bill, if it should perhaps already be approved, at least in a way consistent with the rest of the constitutional system in this country. And I'll take one more short turn here. I consider my biggest political mistake to be the fact that I once got chatty with journalists and the rest of the political scene to agree to a change in the Constitution towards the direct election of the President. I think it was a fatal mistake. All those who want to vote in favour of the referendum today, I warn them not to make such a fatal mistake that I have made in the past. Because the roads are paved with good intentions, but they really lead to hell, and we can see that in today's situation. To get back to the draft constitutional law on a national referendum. It is not clear why the government believes that we should have two types of referendums, and it will, of course, depend on how that implementing law will be regulated. But that we should have one way of declaring a referendum through constitutional laws, I would still understand that another referendum can be declared through constitutional laws, but a referendum under Article 10a (1) of the Treaty. Article 10a (2) of the Constitution and the referendum in the statement of the international treaty referred to in Article 10a of the Constitution. And then this special bill. [[13.50 hours]] I do not understand, if we assume that there is to be one type of referendum at national level, I do not know what the government assumes. Perhaps this referendum under these articles should not be provoked by a popular initiative. Then let the government tell us who it's supposed to be. But it seems completely illogical to me to have different rules. For example, so that there are other rules on who may vote, who may participate, how will votes be collected, or perhaps even other rules of validity? Are we going to assume that, to testify to international treaties, there will be other awards of participation, a different kind of binding vote than those in this bill, or are we going to assume that they will be similar? It seems completely confusing for us to say: we will have one referendum under this bill, and another under other articles of the Constitution, which will be adapted in a very special way. That's the first reservation. Second reservation to Article 2 Subject matter of the referendum. Yes, there are some lockouts that have so far been in all the draft constitutional law on the national referendum that I have ever experienced, such as fundamental rights and freedoms, individual rights and obligations, the appointment of individual persons in office and matters relating to the state budget. But, for example, there is no constitutional order in this country anymore. I assume that, according to the proposal put forward by Minister Dienstbier, or the entire government, it would be legitimate to hold a referendum on the fact that, for example, the regions are being abolished or that the municipalities are being abolished, or that I should lead to complete absurdity, that Parliament is being abolished and that all power is being transferred to the President of the Republic. A reference to which we would probably be 350 thousand. signatures in this country, which would probably be supported by 25 percent of the population in this country, I don't know if they would have won an over-half majority if we had requested over-half participation, but these figures are not excluded, and then, of course, there would be a problem that there would be no one willing to do such a referendum, either from the government or from the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, to implement and implement it in the Constitutional Law. However, the referendum would still be valid and would be given, as the President has told us here today: let us try to bring ourselves into harmony with the citizens of this country. I'm not gonna use any adjectives because I've always considered them extremely dubious. This would undoubtedly put the citizens of this country into even greater conflict with the representatives of legislative power. The fact that at least the basic principles of the democratic rule of law are not excluded from the referendum that the Constitutional Court could not assess this question seems to me completely unthinkable and completely doubtful. Nor is it excluded from the draft law to hold a referendum on judicial decisions. Again, a thing that is absolutely common in all constitutional laws on referendums that I have ever seen and experienced in my life. I know the government here doesn't say: it's binding on the courts, so apparently the courts could... But let us imagine that, once again, someone will make a motion to hold a referendum, which they will question, will negate some statement by the Constitutional Court, some statement by the ordinary court. Was XY to be convicted? Was Kajínek to be convicted? To put it on a popular case that could go through. The result, most say no. And what's going to happen? We're going to have some majority decision here that will apply to those institutions to which it will apply, of course, it's not binding on them, but the government is about to present a solution. The government would probably have to go along the way of proposing to the President of the Republic to pardon Mr Kajínek or something. But again, I think that there are things that are common in the laws on referendums and that we should not be wiser than the wisest in the world and we should not exclude them from decision-making power. As well as the third article, the question for the referendum. It seems reasonable to me that a yes can be answered in a referendum. It already seems awfully controversial for a referendum to answer no. And I would very much like to know what the petitioners imagine that part of such a proposal should be where we want the answer no. And then we have there that it's binding if you say 25 either positive or negative. It seems very impractical for me to formulate a question so that the answer to it will be no. I mean, every question can be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u52	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep your arguments down so that they can be heard. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the silence. I understand that the House is a little tired of referendums today. But after all, I don't think we're discussing constitutional laws here every day again, so we should go over the argument a little bit. Each question can be formulated in such a way that the answer to it can be positive. And we can either respond to that division, yes or no, and now, as a result, it seems impractical to me, whether in Article three or Article eight, in what situation the validity would be and in what situation the validity would not be. We may still be able to get to that on the committees. Rule four, motion for a referendum. The government is embarking on a rather unusual path, in the way that the only initiate of a national referendum can be a petition by citizens, or a gathering of citizens' votes. It's unusual. Most of the time, a referendum can be raised either on the basis of a petition by citizens or on the basis of a resolution by Parliament or one of its chambers, or on the basis of one of the minorities of the chambers. Different states have adjusted it differently. But in order to go the only way for citizens to petition, I find it unpractical. Moreover, this, of course, leads to a significant mediacratisation of public life. And we are in a situation where two thirds of the media today are owned by individual economic players on the market. I fear that under such circumstances, it will be as if a petition by citizens, but a petition by citizens that will always have to be organized, someone will have to support somewhere, someone will have to call. Now we are no longer talking about holding a referendum with which everyone is familiar, which announces a state that organizes a state, where, of course, all voters will be notified. But it's collecting signatures. Do we really consider it the most practical to go to all the trouble, this whole country, only to the media that announces: do we want, or do we not want to collect signatures for a referendum, or do we want, or do we support, or do we not support, the collection of signatures for a referendum? Is the exclusion of a minority of political life really so crucial that the Minister insists on it? I am afraid, Mr Member, although you are gestured against me that I am about to pass the 14th hour, unfortunately there is quite a lot of arguments against the referendum. It has already been said and indicated that we will demand that any collection of signatures must lead to a higher number than 250 thousand. I think we should have similar numbers as in Slovakia, perhaps compared to the size of the country. But I'm sure I'll want us to consider the option when we go this way, that if it is possible to call a national referendum on the basis of a citizens' petition, there should be another option - to call it on the basis of either the decision of one or the other chamber, or a minority or a majority of the other chamber. [[14.00 hours]] We're getting to article five. For me also extremely strangely formulated, I completely misunderstood what he wanted, and he talked about it in part also the President of the Republic, here in one way or another from his appearance I would give him the truth in a partial way --
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-11-ps2013-042-08-005-067.u54	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech. Anyway, it looks like you're still extremely prepared to argue, and your speech won't end in a few minutes, so we can discuss or negotiate this point. For this reason, I will interrupt the discussion of this point. Thank you. I am therefore interrupting this item and interrupting this meeting until 22. 3. 2016 14 pm. Thank you and have a pleasant rest of the day.
