ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to inform you that on 14 January the parliamentary mandate of Josef Vojdecký Vozdecký. In this context, some constitutional steps must be taken. One of them is the promise of a new Member. That is why I am asking the chair of the mandate and immunity committee of Mrs Miroslava Němcová to introduce us to the steps that this committee has taken and then to read the Constitution of the prescribed promise that the Member will put in the hands of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, on 14 January 2016, a notary record was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies by which an engineer Josef Vozdecký gave up the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. On that day, Mr Josef Vozdeckýý's parliamentary mandate, which was acquired by an alternate for the ANO 2011 movement, for the Pilsen Region, Mrs Mgr Miloslava Rutová. At its 33rd meeting held on 19 January 2016, the mandate and immune committee adopted Resolution No. In this regard, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measure in question does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (c) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has expired to Mr. Josef Vozdecký. At the same time, it states that this vacant parliamentary mandate is the subject of an alternate member named Mrs Mgr Miloslava Rutová, who established the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 14 January 2016. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Miloslava Rutová will take a parliamentary oath. I ask the honourable Member now to come before the Chamber of Deputies and make a prescribed pledge by the Constitution, and at the same time I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the pledge of the new Member. You, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to stand up. The text of the promise reads as follows: I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. [[Members in the benches are rising. Mrs Rutová stands before the benches, and by handing her hand to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, she confirms the promise which she then signs.]] Madam, I congratulate you and wish you every success in your parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u3	Thank you. I, too, would like to welcome Mrs Miloslava Rutová. I wish her every success in her parliamentary work. We will now continue to discuss the 39th meeting. We will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting - a proposal for Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Pavel Čihák to be Mrs. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number one that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1. Of the present 150 for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the verifiers of the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies have been designated by Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Pavel Čihák. We shall now proceed to the apologies which have come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Margita Balaštíková for health reasons, Marek Benda for family reasons, Ivan Gabal for foreign travel reasons, Vlastimil Gabrhel for health reasons, Gabriela Hubáčková for 15 hours for work reasons, Mr Miloslav Janulík until 18.30 for work reasons, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová for work reasons, Rom Kostřica for work reasons, František Laudát for work reasons, Květa Matušovská for health reasons, Martin Novotný for health reasons, Pavlína Nytrová for health reasons, until 17 hours Ivan Pilný for work reasons, Antonín Seďa for foreign travel for the whole day as well as Pavel Šrámek for foreign travel reasons and Jiří Štětina for personal reasons. Within 19 hours he apologizes for work reasons Josef Zahradníček. They apologize to the members of the government: Pavel Bělobrádek for health reasons, Minister Jan Mládek for foreign travel reasons, for work reasons Svatopluk Němeček, until 16.30 for work reasons Dan Ťok and between 15.15 and 17.45 for work reasons Minister Kateřina Valachová. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 39th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's political grémium agreed. We propose to include 637 and 638, draft public procurement laws in the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, on Wednesday, 27 January, as the first and second points at 14.30. Further firmly include item 125 of the draft programme, House press 649. It's a bill on value added tax, first reading, today at 20 o'clock. Furthermore, the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals today and after 19 o'clock. That's all on my side. We will now continue with the proposals put forward by individual Members. Mr Karel Fiedler is the first to submit to the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose for the Dawn Parliamentary Club on the agenda of this meeting The Chamber of Deputies dates for the next Tuesday, 26 January, as the first item of the day, so that there is sufficient time for the government to prepare for answers. On the basis of resolution 642 Chamber of Deputies of 25 February 2015 item entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration situation and problems of this matter. The Chamber of Deputies adopted this resolution in February last year, and the final debate on this topic - I am not saying a point directly on the basis of this resolution - was, I believe, in September or October last year in the Chamber of Deputies. Since then, if I count correctly, four months have passed, and no information from the government has been received from this House. For this reason, on behalf of the Dawn MEP, I propose the inclusion of this point - I repeat, because the Government has the opportunity to prepare itself for these answers or for this report - as the first point next Tuesday, 26 January. We expect the government of the Czech Republic to inform us about how it is prepared or what its intentions are in dealing with the migration crisis, because from all sides we hear - I dare point out - that the real information that the migration wave we witnessed last year can reach much larger dimensions this year. [[14.10 hours]] I consider it perfectly legitimate, especially if the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is to inform the House of Deputies about its intentions, actions and how it is prepared for this. I believe you will support this motion for a point, because in that case, many of you would probably negate the resolutions for which you voted when the Chamber of Deputies adopted this resolution 642 last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u5	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Then, with priority rights, Mr Karel Černoch. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party MP with a proposal to include a new item in the agenda of our meeting. Basically, this is what Mr Fiedler mentioned earlier. I would just like to clarify that resolution No 642 is from February 12, 2015. In this resolution, we are ordering the Government in point II to keep the Chamber of Deputies informed of the positions it will defend at all foreign negotiations dealing with security and immigration policy. Since this resolution is not being implemented, although we have tried to do so several times and have proposed this point several times at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, I am addressing you again. It may turn out the way it was before, but I still think it would be very inappropriate if we did not address this issue. If you from around you know a more powerful subject that troubles our citizens than the migration crisis, then you should come out here and present this issue and propose it. I am basing my proposal on changes, which have at least since 1 October, when we discussed the second time, and we have adopted the fundamental resolution that has passed in the meantime. If you've noticed, the border is breaking down or the borderless crossing within the Schengen area. While the external borders remain hollow as a Swiss cheese, which is the expression of one of Europe's representatives, those internal borders are closing down. This is happening between Denmark, Sweden, and now it is happening on Austria, which has so strongly criticised Hungary, that it is finally taking the same steps. We have recorded events in Cologne, and not only there, in other German cities, in Scandinavia. We note that Mrs Mogherini was visiting the Czech Republic - in quotation marks - the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the European Union. What talks our representatives conducted with her, what they demanded of her, what the outputs were, none of us know and should know. We have also noted that a wave is rising in the UK, which may result in this country deciding to leave the European Union. Prime Minister Cameron has presented the conditions to the European Commission in which he is seeking reform of the European Union, but I have the impression that this serious matter, formulated by the UK, is not being addressed and instead the European Commission devotes its energy and time to scouting the new Polish government, whether it is doing well in terms of the area, I do not know, the Constitutional Court, the appointment of constitutional judges or media laws. As far as migration is concerned, he is also wearing pink glasses, which can be proved by Jean-Claude Juncker's statement just after the New Year, when he said that nothing changes about the EU's strategy and that he does not see why the entire migration wave should not continue as it has been. I believe that all these steps, including the fact that Germany already regulates asylum conditions, even touches on a permanent residence that wants to enable citizens coming into its territory, so it is an important point for us to deal with it too. I want to know from the Czech Government what steps it has taken, what negotiations it has taken, what it has pushed in the event of the emerging crisis. And if the government does not provide us with this information voluntarily, I am convinced that this is a violation of the constitutional principle, when the government is confessing to the Chamber of Deputies and when the Chamber of Deputies imposed its resolution on it a year ago to keep us regularly informed. That is why I propose this new point. Please, not to be the first to be included today, although I think that the weight of its importance would deserve this, but I understand that the government will want to prepare for this, so I propose that this point be the first point on Thursday this week, at 11 o'clock after the completion of written interventions. If this proposal is not adopted, I therefore propose that we also vote in the case that this point be placed first today. I'm saying I want to give the government a good deadline. If the House does not accept this, then we can proceed directly to the debate, as the first point of today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u7	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has a replacement card No. 8. We continue with proposals to supplement or amend the agenda of the meeting. Member Marek Černoch, then colleague David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me ask for the inclusion of a new item in this meeting called the Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which obliges the Government to introduce immediate protection of the national borders of the Czech Republic. I ask that this point be placed as the first point of our meeting, as in my opinion it is the existential interest of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of the Interior admits that almost a hundred illegal migrants were secured in the Czech Republic only in the first week of the new year, exactly 91, and only 15 of them thanks to the active measures of the Ministry of the Interior. If anyone wants to say that in the second week of January it was already fewer migrants, I'm just saying that there were 71 of them. More importantly, there are hundreds of thousands of immigrants in Germany who have been denied asylum. France, but also Scandinavia, introduce border controls and restrict the entry of migrants into their territory. The tragic New Year's events in Cologne are the tip of the glacier - a serious escalation of the security situation in Germany. The fact that only in Cologne, in connection with the New Year's harassment of women, 766 criminal charges have been filed and to this day one single assailant has been charged is perhaps a sufficient argument to take the situation seriously, as the German police clearly cannot handle this situation. Especially if we recall that the only accused of 766 criminal charges is a 26-year-old Alžířan who lives in an immigration camp. I remind you that hundreds of criminal charges for sexual harassment and theft are also reported by other German cities, e.g. Hamburg, Düsseldorf and many others. I would therefore like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that protecting the national borders of the Czech Republic today is not just a problem of the border with Slovakia or Austria, where immigrants from Greece or Italy come to us, but it is also necessary to start protecting the borders of the Czech Republic with Germany and not allowing disappointed migrants from Germany, where they will not get asylum, to seek refuge with us. Please do not live in naivety that if Germany does not grant asylum to a migrant, it will automatically put him on a plane and send him home. Tens of thousands of people are deported, but millions have arrived. It is evident that the German police are unable to address the mass attacks of migrants. We won't have to solve the same problem with us. We will start to control our borders so that immigrants can't get to us freely. If you find the situation in Germany a little threatening, let us look at the prediction of the arrival of immigrants from the south, from Greece, the Balkans and Italy. In principle, all authorities admit that more migrants will come to Europe this year than they did last year. In its official statement, the European Commission, too, says - three million by 2017. Last week I literally had to suffer, and I think my colleagues who were there will tell me the truth, two meetings with the High Representative of the Union for Security Policy, Mrs Mogherini, who was visiting Prague. [[14.20 hours]] If I leave out its official grounds, the High Representative for Security has nothing to do with what happened in Cologne, and there is no need to address it. I must clearly reject her apathetic rhetoric about the coming second migration wave. When the key EU representative said that we do not know much about the migration wave and its prediction, and we just have to believe that it will be okay, he had to ask himself whether he was joking or whether this woman was serious. Unfortunately, I have understood from other toothless responses that this is only in quotation marks of spanking, which is entirely in line with Brusel' inability to do something really at the Union's external borders. Yesterday the government met in the Czech Republic. The EU's border and coastal guard, so-called "Border and Coast Guard," has solemnly agreed. border package. I ask what is the point when anyone who takes care of this issue and is interested in it knows that the Řek consistently refuse to allow a soldier of any other country to enter their territory, and when 400 members of Frontex are already working in Greece today. Members of the new European Border Guard should be 1500 to 50,000 km of the European Union border. According to experts, the Czech Republic needs 3000 border guards to protect its borders, and we have a natural green border that can be better protected by mountains and rivers than the rugged coastline of southern Europe. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Everyone also knows that the intention is to reiterate... the intention of this European Union leadership will not be discussed until the middle of this year. Thus, at the speed of the Brussels administration, we could soberly estimate that perhaps next year could bring about some real functioning of the border guard. I therefore ask what we will do for at least one year, at least half a million migrants who will come this year, when apparently the EU's external borders will be as leaky as last year. And where will these migrants go when Germany is already collapsing? True, those who do not get to television in Africa can read with the Arabic headlines the New Year's speech of Chancellor Merkelová, as she likes to welcome everyone in Germany. Let me quote: "Do not listen to those who want to usurp Germanism for themselves with coldness or even hatred in their hearts, and others want to exclude it. " Really, the Chancellor, through her pro-migration rampage, is under increasing pressure, for example, by Bavarian politicians who want to stop her policy. For us, however, there is only one thing: we must protect the Czech Republic from the arrival of migrants from the south and at the same time from the arrival of unsuccessful asylum seekers from Germany. On Friday, December 13th, there was a whistling when we asked for greater protection of the state border. If we gave more room to this topic today, I think we would have done very well. On Friday, December 13, the Home Secretary said that the only way to guard the border was to build a fence. It's not true. If we accept 3,000 new cops and equip them with the right technology, our borders can be protected. On the Committee on Security, my colleague Kádner and Lank presented this to representatives of both interior and finance ministries in September last year in connection with the preparation of the state budget for this year. The advantage of our borders has been our border mountains, forests and rivers since almost time immemorial. They are no longer as impenetrable as they were in the Middle Ages, but with technology they can be protected very well without the need to build any fence on Sumava. The same is true of the Moravia River.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Then I do not hear the specific proposals put forward by individual Members, for example. on the inclusion of a point or something so that we can then put a proper vote. If you have a discussion other than the agenda of the meeting, please in the foyer. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u10	Thank you. As far as border cities and crossings are concerned, the truth is to install at least mobile barriers so that we can be prepared for the flow of migrants and respond not in a number of days but minutes. But it's exactly the technology we've been asking for since September. Another argument by the Home Secretary was that even if we decided to accept 3,000 new police officers right away, they could not be found. I'm saying that as we drive around the debate and meet a lot of people, these people are interested in protecting borders, they are interested in joining the police. I believe that if there is anything good in migration, it is the awareness that is coming among our citizens. These people are increasingly aware that it is necessary to protect the Czech Republic and that it is necessary to participate in the protection of the Czech Republic. The fact that people are more aware of the great gift we have in our country that we do not have to deal with the French but unfortunately today also the German problems with immigrants. Moreover, if the government had accepted our proposals, cops had already been accepted since summer. Today we have simply lost six months, and now it is no longer possible to delay recruitment. When I read in the media about how the Prime Minister and the Ministry of the Interior wanted to do Večerníček with Mr Svěrák for the Defence of Migration on Czech TV, I ask why Czech Television could not help recruit new police officers. I'm sure some of you will ask why to hire cops if we have an army here. Let me remind you that our army is small, and if it is to carry out the tasks of common defence, its commitment to border control for more than six months is not possible without the army stopping fulfilling its other obligations, e.g. against NATO. Moreover, what we would do if, in addition to the migration crisis, for example, they came. floods or some other natural disaster? Last but not least, the military does not even have the competences needed to protect borders in the long term. Identity control is a matter of competence and technology, and you have the police, not the army. dáma and gentlemen, in December, the Interior Minister made another argument as to why he does not want to comply with the proposals of the Dawn - National Coalition. I will quote: Everything you here, colleagues from Dawn, are proposing through Mr President, means one single result in this equation - leaving the Schengen area and leaving the EU. If we want to pay this high price, if we're ready to pay it, let's go there. But the will in this Chamber of Deputies, in the Senate, and I firmly believe that most citizens of the Czech Republic are simply not. End of quote. This argument is false. And I will ask if anyone has fired Greece from Schengen for not fulfilling their EU commitments with EU border control. Whether he fired Hungary for building a fence at the border. The EU does not enforce many of its members' commitments, including reducing the government budget deficit. What, then, does Brusel know so terrible about the corruption surrounding the drawdown of European funds in the Czech Republic that our government is unable, following the model of Scandinavian and other countries, to proceed to a consistent control of our borders? Finally, let me ask again for the inclusion of this item with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which obliges the government to introduce immediate protection of the national borders of the Czech Republic. I think that this is an existential interest of the Czech Republic and that it is necessary for us to start to protect citizens of the Czech Republic consistently in order to start protecting our women and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u11	Thank you, Mr Černoch. I apologize to Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, from 14.00 to 16.00 on the occasion of the visit of the doctor, Mr Radim Fiala, I apologize to Minister Kateřina Valachová from 14.00 to 15.15 and then from 17.15 to the end of the day of the hearing, and I apologize to Mr Ivan Pilný until 17.00, and I apologise from today's meeting from 19.15 until the end of the day of the hearing, and Minister Milan chovanec apologizes from today's meeting. Those were excuses, we'll continue with the proposals to change the program. Now, Mr David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a prioritization of paragraph 117. This is a draft asylum law, press 598. The principle of law is simple. Neither the Asylum nor the Supplementary Protection may be granted if the alien concerned commits an infringement. Under today's regulations, asylum cannot be granted only if a foreigner commits a crime against peace, war crime or a crime against humanity within the meaning of international documents. [[14.30 hours]] The current form of the law is incredibly benevolent and does not allow sufficient protection against massive abuse of asylum law, particularly by economic migrants from Africa and Asia. The original reasons for exclusion from asylum are the origins of the post-World War II era, when they were to prevent the immigration of Nazi species-trawlers and their escape from justice. Today, however, the situation is completely different and these outdated paragraphs need to be disposed of and adapted to today's day. Therefore, according to our proposal, the law should clearly state that asylum and supplementary protection cannot be granted to a foreigner who has committed a crime or an offence. In both cases, they are supplemented by a clause that takes account of reasons worthy of special consideration, worthy of excluding cases where such a measure would be too harsh. I would like to point out that we have already tabled this proposal in September last year, and it is very sad how its need has been demonstrated in the avalanche of rape and sexual violence that has passed across Europe during the New Year's Eve celebrations and which have been shown in the worst form in Cologne. According to witnesses and police, a thousand Arab and African people gathered in the centre of Cologne for New Year's Eve nights. Out of the crowd were groups of men who surrounded women, sexually assaulted and robbed them. Police have already accepted nearly 600 criminal charges due to the incident. According to the media, the police are investigating 23 people, 10 asylum seekers, but they haven't formally charged anyone yet. A severe punishment is required for the perpetrators. Cologne police say only a small part of them were North Severoafričan, most of them controlled were Syřan. Most of them were asylum seekers who arrived recently. They submitted documents to be issued when applying for asylum. The German Minister of Justice said that anyone who thinks he can stand up to the law must be punished, no matter where he comes from. He also pointed out that asylum seekers could be immediately expelled before the end of the asylum procedure if they were sentenced to at least one year in prison unconditionally, and this penalty rate is still possible in sexual attacks. We are talking about Germany, which has been perhaps the most pro-migrant country in Europe until now. Nevertheless, it also has laws that allow for refusal to grant asylum if the asylum seeker commits a criminal offence. But there is no such option in our country because asylum is refused only if a foreigner commits war crimes or crimes against humanity. So if similar events happened in Prague and sexual attacks were exposed to Czech women and girls, it would basically mean nothing to asylum seekers, because according to Czech laws, they would still have the right to asylum. The German Attorney General says we must expel the sexual attackers immediately. What our ministers, for example Minister Chovanec and his Ministry, feel about the possibility of expulsion in the event of a criminal offence - I quote: "The Ministry rejects the bill in question as a whole because it runs counter to the Convention on the Status of Refugees and also to the law of the European Union. The proposed legislation appears to be a disproportionate narrowing of the international legal protection of migrants currently provided.' And what does the stellar pro-migration Czech Minister of Justice Pelikán and his ministry have to say about this? I also quote: "The proposed bill is contradictory in Article 1F of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. The proposal submitted cannot be considered adequate either for the purpose of the asylum institute and for supplementary protection, which is the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of foreigners. Failure to provide such protection for the purpose of committing a criminal offence cannot be considered proportional to the importance of the rights to be protected by asylum and subsidiary protection.' Yes, you can hear me well. Both our key ministers in immigration legislation do not want foreigners who commit criminal offences or offences to lose their chance to obtain asylum. I find such a situation absolutely incredible. According to both ministers, respect for international treaties and the protection of human rights and freedoms of foreigners are the most important. There is not a word here about the protection of citizens of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to learn a lesson and stop following the senseless views of our ministers. This is about the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. I ask you to support the prior discussion of the amendment to the asylum law so that we can expel illegal immigrants who can unleash the same hell in our country as we saw in Cologne and others. Please place point 117. Once again, this is a draft asylum law, House press 598. I would like to place the law firmly on today's negotiations first after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u13	I thank Mr Kádner. The next enrollment is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr Martin Lank will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a lovely afternoon. I would like to put a new item on the agenda, namely the information of the Minister of Health on the health risks of the immigration crisis. I wanted to put this point first for today, but since the Minister is not here, and he doesn't come around much, and if I have heard correctly, Mr President, is he due at 16 o'clock? [[He's turning back to the President. He's not responding.]] Mr President, is the Minister due at 16 o'clock?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u15	Well...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u16	I mean the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u17	The Minister of Health apologized properly, and according to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u18	And you said he'd be here at 4:00? Is he coming?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u19	I'm not watching him, colleague, but Minister Němeček apologizes for the whole day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u20	For the whole day, I see. All right. So I would suggest that this point be the first point for tomorrow after the fixed points. I want to follow up on my Dawn colleagues with one more aspect of the refugee crisis in Europe. These days, many Pražan have become ill with mumps. Mules are a disease that our children have been vaccinated against since 1987. Therefore, no one assumes that they should appear to a greater extent in our country. All the more panic among the sick causes this disease, and as we know, panic causes not only this disease, but every infectious disease that occurs in our country. I don't want to say that it's the refugees' fault, but let's remember that with the refugee wave, with the arrival of hundreds, thousands, maybe tens of thousands of migrants from countries where health is at a much lower level than in our country, where diseases like mumps, measles, coughing, jaundice, and many other very common diseases, where these diseases are commonly dying, will come to us again. Diseases that we are trying to eradicate more or less successfully in the Czech Republic for half a century, and now we will have them here again. Our health services are currently not prepared for anything like this. Our citizens, the soothing of the current relatively good situation, refuse to give their children a compulsory vaccination, which we know from a recent time when we were discussing vaccinations. In this situation, people who are infected with these diseases will come to us. Who's gonna be the first one in the shot? Who's gonna get it anyway? Who's the most vulnerable group? They are children and seniors, i.e. the most vulnerable and fragile, those whom I try most to devote myself to throughout my parliamentary mandate. That is why I am asking you to put this item on the agenda. The work of Minister Němeček, who has already set up an expert team monitoring the situation and proposing short-term measures, is proof that I am not just talking in the wind. [[14.40 hours]] I'm sure it's not enough. The Minister owes us information, up-to-date information about the state of affairs. I want and I believe that not only I, but that you too want to hear from the Minister's mouth what health risks are in the context of the migration crisis, how we, as the Czech Republic, are prepared for these risks, what a particular ministry is doing in this matter. This message will certainly calm the public, and you will surely give me the truth that we need to talk about such things. And where else than here? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u21	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. We will continue with the speech, Mr Martin Lank's proposal. Mrs Olga Havlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, will contribute a little bit to the mill. I would like to ask you to include a new point in this meeting, a point entitled Information Prime Minister on leaks of his e-mail correspondence and the reality of the negotiations of the Czech Government on immigration quotas. I completely understand that the inclusion of extraordinary points, especially the opposition, is not very popular in the government coalition, but I beg you very much for the exception and inclusion of this point on the agenda of today's House. Let me remind you that the House is not only a machine for the approval of government laws, but according to the constitutional order of our country, the House is also a supervisory body of the government. In my opinion, the Prime Minister's e-mails leaked, if they are true, indicate a fundamental contradiction between what the Prime Minister is telling us and what he is doing. As much as I condemn attacks on privacy, we should probably be clear about some things. Prime Minister Sobotka publicly declared: "The Czech Republic has negotiated intensively in recent weeks, days and hours. We insist on our position. I think we have a real chance of pushing our negative opinion against the quotas." End of quote. But what the reality is is, the e-mail from the State Secretary for European politics shows Tomáš Prouza, who escaped from the Prime Minister's e-mail. Secretary Prouza writes to Prime Minister Sobotek in an e-mail leaked - I quote: "The Presidency signals that he will simply be put to the vote, in their opinion and in the Commission's opinion, the venue for negotiations under the Sunday agreement with Juncker was until yesterday and we decided not to use it, even though they were willing to meet us." So that we can understand each other's meaning. The Supreme Civil Officer of the Czech Republic responsible for cooperation with Brusel wrote to the Prime Minister that the President of the European Commission was ready to negotiate quotas with us and we rejected it. Mr Prouza even writes in an e-mail to Mr Sobotek that the European Commission was willing to accommodate us, and yet we did not negotiate. We did not negotiate, although the Prime Minister said in the media that during these weeks, days, or even hours, the negotiations are intensely negotiated. Furthermore, the Prime Minister said that we had a real chance to enforce our negative opinion on quotas. However, the e-mail of the Secretary of State for European Affairs shows the exact opposite. The Prime Minister knew we'd be outvoted at the summit. I quote the Secretary of State: "The Presidency signals that it is simply to be put to the vote. " [[Emphasis.]] Bottom line, the Prime Minister, if e-mails are true, unfortunately, he played both for Members and for the public when he said that he was negotiating intensively so that the Czech Republic would not have to accept quotas. Furthermore, let me remind you in the context of the approval of the position of the Czech Government on quotas in the Committee on European Affairs last June. The government initially came to the committee with a motion for a resolution that it could negotiate quotas at its own discretion. After more than an hour of heated debate on the Committee on European Affairs, the chairman of our club Marek Černoch finally pushed through a clear resolution that the government must clearly reject quotas. This crucial debate came to an end in the media, as the Prime Minister then solemnly told the public that the Czech Republic would not accept quotas. However, if Marek Černoch had not enforced a clear resolution, the government wanted room for negotiations on quotas. All of this raises fundamental questions, first of all: why did the Prime Minister not take advantage of the option written by State Secretary Prouza, and the Czech Republic did not take advantage of the opportunity to negotiate quotas with the European Commission's leadership? Secondly, why was it not done when the Secretary of State advertised in an e-mail that they were willing to accommodate us? Third: How will the Prime Minister explain his statement to the media that it was weeks, days, even hours with the EU on quotas, when in fact the possibility of negotiating has not been used? Fourthly, how will the Prime Minister explain his statement to the media that we have a real chance of pushing through our negative opinion on quotas when the Secretary of State knew that there would be a vote and that we would therefore be overvoted? Dear colleagues, before you decide whether to accept my request to include this point, allow me to read from the Prime Minister's correspondence on migration by e-mail to his own advisor, or directly to Mr Novotný, the Chief Advisor, who blames the Prime Minister - I quote: "Can you please tell me one positive result from the current government strategy to address the migration crisis? All I see is carambola. And worst of all, I see a terrifying failure of commitment to social democratic values." Ladies and gentlemen, the ex-President Václav Klaus recently spoke of the Brussels elites, which he sees immigrants as an instrument for building a European citizen. He even spoke of a deliberate attempt by Brussels to accept as many immigrants as possible to weaken the national line in individual European states for the benefit of a euro nation. I am no non-critical confessor of Václav Klaus, at least on the subject of amnesty I strongly disagree with him, but I have to ask Mr. Prime Minister's leaked e-mails as to whether there is something deeper than the fear of Brussels officials for Eurodotation in the course of the Prime Minister's negotiations. Whether the Prime Minister is hiding something from us that we Members and, of course, citizens should know. Posted emails can't just be seen as some isolated faux pas, or, if you like, partial failures. The e-mail must be seen in the context of the whole of the Prime Minister's Brussels policy. His Human Rights Minister, Mr Dienstbier, says to the media that the Czech Republic can accept thousands of migrants. Minister chovanec repeatedly tells us that we cannot protect borders because we would be expelled from Schengen. State officials drive around the Czech Republic and often scare locals, where there are other camps for immigrants being set up everywhere. And the government is rejecting the Dawn proposals for tightening up asylum policy. For example, according to the government, it is not possible to say that anyone who commits a crime or an offence must not receive asylum in the Czech Republic. They say it would be contrary to international treaties and the Geneva Convention. But the reality is that, on the contrary, the Geneva Convention allows asylum seekers to be expelled, who commit a criminal offence. Mrs Merkelová also said so recently. In connection with the mass sexual harassment of women in Cologne, even the Prime Minister said so, but in the context of everything else I say here, accept the Prime Minister's statement, perhaps it cannot be taken too seriously. Adding to this the government's idea of making a dinner party with Mr Svěrák on Czech television, which would explain how immigrants must be accepted, unfortunately, there is no other way than to agree with the Prime Minister's advisor, who, I repeat and quote again, asked: "Can you please tell me one positive result from the current government strategy to address the migration crisis? All I see is carambola. And worst of all, I see a terrifying failure of commitment to social democratic values." I quite sign this statement, although I suppose for some other reasons than the author of the e-mail. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you once again to include a new point in this meeting, namely the Information Prime Minister on leaks of his e-mail correspondence and the reality of the negotiations of the Czech Government on immigration quotas. I ask that this point be placed as the second point of this meeting after the item of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the protection of national borders proposed by the chairman of our club Marek Černoch. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u23	Thank you, Mr Lank. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u24	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the inclusion of the item Information of Minister Pelikán on the criminalisation of the Bloc against Islam and, above all, of his chair, Professor Martin Konvička, on the second item tomorrow after the item presented by my colleague Jana Hnyková. I originally wanted to put this point on today, but since the Minister is not here, I'm putting it as a second point for tomorrow. [[14.50 hours]] I ask for the inclusion of this point for several reasons. Although the Minister replied to my written interview - I quote: "In a situation where, in particular, in the context of the migration crisis, public opinion and citizens' views seem to be radicalized, I merely considered it appropriate to make public notice of effective legislation as Minister of Justice. " I cannot read this sentence of the Minister except as intimidation and efforts to silence the opinion of most citizens of the Czech Republic. I ask: When we see the inability of the German police to protect women in Cologne against the aggression of migrants, when we see a whole new type of crime conditioned by the education of the Islamic world, where a woman is less valuable than a man -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u25	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Especially the clumps in front of the counter for the one to whom the word is given. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u26	- doesn't a citizen of the Czech Republic have the right to refuse the Islamisation of our country? Minister Pelikán assures me further in the interview that the assessment of whether the facts of the crime, namely Albertov or elsewhere in November, were fulfilled does not belong to his competence, but to the Police of the Czech Republic. If I leave out the half-truth that Minister Pelikán claims in the interpelation that the assessment of what is and is not criminal is not only a question of police, but also of prosecutors who belong to the Ministry of Justice, it remains apparent from the overall context of the interpelation that Minister Pelikán admits his efforts to influence the authorities involved in criminal proceedings so that people are afraid of Islam to express their views, and I consider that in the context of today I consider a problem that unfortunately only the Chamber of Deputies can solve. Let me remind you of the situation. On November 17, thousands of people came to Prague Albertov on the day of the public holiday to support President Miloš Zeman. Mr. President at this demonstration, among other things. he said: We should remember in peace and quiet the memory of both 17 November, both 17 November 1939 and 17 November 1989. Our nation is not xenophobic. In this nation, more than half a million foreigners live in this country and can find cohabitation with our culture, are accepted friendlyly and have no problems with them. It's not a culture of murderers, and it's not a culture of religious hatred. The president has called on people not to be brainwashed. On the stage, the chairman of our Dawn Assembly Club Marek Černoch, President of Dawn Miroslav Lidinský and Chairman of the Block against Islam Martin Konvička, also appeared. This meeting also took place because of terror in Paris under very strict security measures. In the crowd before the stage, when everyone present had to pass a security inspection, there were also flags of supporters of the Bloc against Islam and the initiatives of Islam in the Czech Republic we do not want. After the demonstration on November 17 at Albertov, Minister of Justice Pelikán published a statement that one who incites hatred of some religions will be punished by imprisonment for up to two years, as Section 356 of the Criminal Code states. Then, in an interview for the demonstration of thousands of citizens at Albertov, the minister said: Police are legally obliged to prosecute all criminal activities they learn about. And I have a feeling there were quite a lot of policemen in Albertov. At Albertov there were representatives of the Dawn - the National Coalition, representatives of the Bloc against Islam with thousands of other people and there were no displays of hatred here at all. With this statement, the Minister clearly placed the assembly of thousands of citizens in Albertov as one to be addressed by the police. I ask how it is possible that the Minister of Justice of the democratic state calls on the police to intervene against someone. What happened? A few hours after the Minister of Justice said those words, he was chairman of the Block against Islam doc. Martin Konvička accused of inciting hatred, for which there are up to three years in prison. With this step, government power in the Czech Republic launched a direct attack on freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and on all citizens' civil and political freedoms. In this matter, I have intersected the Minister of Justice orally and in writing. I wanted to know why he used words about police prosecuting crimes in connection with this meeting. I also asked if there was any concrete expression from this meeting that led him to his words. I also wrote to the Minister that I consider his comments very serious on this matter and that it is absolutely necessary for him to explain them. His statement shows a huge risk that his aim was to call on the police to intervene against the participants of this demonstration, and this is unacceptable in a democratic country. What was my surprise when I read the interview response? In reply, the Minister openly states that he is making this statement known to all citizens whose views are radicalized in the context of the migration crisis that incitement to hatred is a criminal offence. It is a clear threat to anyone who disagrees with government policy against illegal immigrants, that the police will shine on him, which also happened in the form of doc. The konvička with which a purely political process is now to be conducted. What is the real nature of the process, I've definitely come back from the police file on this case. Mr. docent. The Konvička is prosecuted for spreading hatred for Islamic ethnicity because, according to the police file, it publicly incited hatred against the Muslim ethnic minority, Islamic religion, and restrictions on the rights and freedoms of their members. This accusation was best commented by a sociologist lecturer at Charles University and Vice-President of the Block versus Islam PhDr Petr Hampl, who said: Islamic ethnicity is from a sociological, but also philosophical point of view absolute babble. Religion and ethnic origin cannot be combined in this way. It is simply evident that while the police have been saving things for a long time, the Minister's pressure has quickly clouded the absurd accusations. In other words, the charge is made up and sucked out of his finger. There is a very suspicious other circumstance in this matter. The charges are based on two judicial experts' opinions, but they contradict each other on the key question of whether Islam is spreading religious intolerance and whether it is an aggressive religion. Mr. JUDr. Josef Zouhar wrote in his expert report: In my opinion, Islam is an aggressive religion and spreads religious and racial intolerance. The main ideological source of Islam - the Koran - is basic proof of this. In the Koran, the exclusiveness of Islamic religion, intolerance to the unbelievers and calls for destruction are enshrined. It induces inequality between man and woman, introduces Sharia law characterized by draconian punishments for violating the Koran and calls for the killing of unbelievers. It is forbidden to doubt the Qur'an; the Korán must be fulfilled unconditionally. On the other hand, doktor Josef Dolista wrote that when it comes to the question of whether Islam is an aggressive religion and is spreading religious intolerance, the answer must be negative. Apparently, even police officers themselves can't be sure what they're supposed to think about Islam, and it's obvious that Mr. docent's accusation. The pots are based on completely contradictory materials. This only strengthens the suspicion that the police acted on the order of someone who asked them to do whatever the doc's way. They went to the Konvička. Dear Minister, your party colleague, Mrs Jana Lorencová, spoke very courageously about Islam here at the House and said: "Islam is not a religion. Islam is a philosophy of life. Islam is something completely foreign, different culture. It's something most nations can never relate to. And it's something that if we implant into our civilization, it will destroy us." [[15.00 hours]] I thank her for this statement and fully agree with him. Unfortunately, the Minister did not respond. But the question is: would this statement raise any reaction from the Minister if the Member did not belong to the ANO club, but was a sympathizer of the Block against Islam? I think the Minister of Justice is just using his ministerial influence to influence the police, which then triggers political processes against his political and opinional competition. That is a point that we cannot leave unnoticed, and I therefore want to discuss it here in plenary on an extraordinary point. In the past, I have experienced political criminalization with many politicians, who, after a long trial, will eventually be excused by the Ministry of Justice for wrongful prosecution, damage to personal and political life and the demise of man, but will never be corrected by this. After all, next week, Úsvit will invite Mrs Vitásková to the House, which is also criminalized for things where she has not even been to the Energy Regulatory Authority herself. And it happens to happen when he refuses to pay $42 billion. annually to solar barons on solar energy subsidies. And coincidentally, at a time when the European Union does not approve of these subsidies, because they are disproportionately high for solarians. Each citizen of the Czech Republic costs 15 per cent of the price of energy. The average family could save up to 4,000 a year. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Why am I reminding you of all this? Because dedicated criminalization in politics is a common instrument of political warfare in the Czech Republic, and I reject it and ask for justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the supporters of Dawn and Block are being monitored, monitored, and I believe that under the cape concerns about extremism it is a systematic effort to prepare and subsequently carry out extensive discreditation of our work, our efforts to protect the borders of the Czech Republic, tighten the conditions for the work of the churches in our country, prevent asylum for those who commit a crime and so on. I therefore repeat: I request the inclusion of a new point of the Information of the Minister of Justice on criminalisation of the Block against Islam. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u27	That was Mrs Havlová. Mr Mihola will be given the right to continue as President of the Club of Deputies and then Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, duly signed up for the debate. Please note that the reasoning under § 54 para. Six can be up to five minutes. I'll check it out. But I'm sure the Prime Minister won't even use it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u28	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that a number of representatives of individual clubs here claim to place a point in the refugee crisis, migration, whatever we call it, but on this issue. I'm glad we all see it as serious and debatable. I also believe that the time has passed, after all, when we have done this properly. This has been almost four months and the matter is changing dynamically especially in connection with events in Germany. KDU-ČSL came to the refugee crisis with a request to include this point and approached its coalition partners. We have been able to agree to include this point, but we do not want to disrupt the House's work-related agenda in the first two weeks. So we want to include this point in the third, variable week, namely Tuesday 9. 2. after the opposition window, which we are on the Gremium today, I believe, went out to meet the opposition, and we will also come out in the next moments when it comes to discussing opposition points. That is why I have also bypassed the opposition club presidents and informed them of this intention to support it, nor will I be able to record it at this time, so far I am informing preliminaryly, we have already prepared a resolution. But we would like the clubs in the Chamber of Deputies to include this point in variable week 9. 2. Supported. I also appeal to you because we are meeting with some points that are important today, and I am not questioning that, so we are going to crash the program, and then we are going to be blamed as a coalition that there is chaos, that the program is still changing. Let's leave the work-agreed agenda, I think that even on the Gremium was adopted quite without any problems, without making any difficult changes, and let us also give room, because the issue of the refugee crisis concerns not one, but several ministers, so that they can possibly arrange time. We also have a resolution prepared which, of course, will still be possible to work with and which will be available to all clubs. Please don't let anyone really see it today if we don't support these proposals as KDU-ČSL, so there's no way that we're going to view the points as unimportant or want to downplay them somehow. Absolutely not. On the contrary, as very important, but we want to maintain the programme as it is set up and to include this point in the refugee crisis, as well as in order to strengthen the position of the Prime Minister for all the negotiations relating to this point, and thus to include this point in a variable week on Tuesday 9. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u29	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. I will ask my colleague Bohdalová to be patient, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, chairman of the ODS Club, has applied. I understand what he's saying. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u30	Just for the record, because it doesn't limit me today. But the paragraph quoted by Vice-President Filip for five minutes refers to the moment when the agenda of the meeting was approved. The agenda hasn't been approved yet, so we can't apply it at this point. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u31	I didn't apply it either. Please, Mrs Bohdalová. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u32	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, Vice-President of the House, ladies and gentlemen. The Organizing Committee was included in the third reading block for tomorrow, paragraph 141, House press 464, amendment to the Higher Education Act. There have been some irregularities in the review of amendments and approved matters from the school committee with legislation, which is why we have gathered today as committee leaders and agreed to look at the matter so that the approval passes smoothly, and I therefore ask you to include paragraph 141, House press 464, its discussion, as the first item on Wednesday next week, that is 27. 1, as the first point in the first reading block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Bohdalová, Vlasta. We will continue with Mr Karel Fiedler, who has applied once more for the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take advantage of the fact that I'm not limited in time, but I promise I won't be long. I would like to respond to the President of the KDU Parliamentary Club to a colleague of Jiří Mihola, who presented here the coalition agreement that he will support this item to include the House program in a variable week. Our Dawn MP welcomes this communication and we are taking a helpful step. My proposal, which I made here first, is that I request the inclusion of a paragraph under resolution 642 for next Tuesday, 26 January, I also amend and make a proposal for 9 February, as the President of the KDU Parliamentary Club presented. So we're joining this term proposal. I really believe that, as presented by a member of the government coalition and chairman of one of the members of the government coalition, this item will be put on the House's agenda on 9 February and the Chamber of Deputies will take a material, real stand and, in particular, the government will inform us in a factual and real way about how it is prepared for the events and circumstances that unfortunately we can expect. [[15.10 hours]] So, Mr President, I am changing my original proposal, and instead of on 26 January, I am making a proposal for 9 February, and I expect strong support from this proposal from the Chamber of Deputies, because it overlaps more or less with the proposal from the KDU. And now for the application, why I volunteered. I promised I'd be brief. I would like to propose one more point, namely the prioritization of paragraph 126. This is a proposal for a law on detention centres for illegal migrants in foreign countries. It's House Press 657. I will no longer be here for a long or comprehensive reason why we are proposing this, because many of my previous speakers and colleagues have made various and many arguments as to why we consider this to be burning. I think we have seen Poland, in particular, where the European Union and the European Commission have either not addressed or have been very lax about the growing migration crisis, and to my great surprise, on the contrary, it wants to address the situation in Poland with regard to the media very quickly. I am concerned that the problem of creating migration centres at borders or outside the borders of the European Union will be treated by the European Union as it has been, and we cannot rely on that. That is why our Dawn MEP proposes that we put this item on the agenda for this meeting. I should say when. Since there's been more of these points, I suggest we put him next in line for today after the previous points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u35	Now, Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for an extraordinary new point to be placed on the agenda of this meeting called Analysis of Islamic Ideology, when we would discuss and, if necessary, adopt a resolution binding on the government to have it process an analysis of Islamic ideology and have it assess how much is or is not contrary to the Czech constitutional order. At present, people who are critical of some of the issues contained in Islam are multiplying. It is, for example, gender inequality, inequality of people according to faith, eternal struggle against life and death against enemies of faith, superiority of religious law to state law, i.e. more precisely to the laws created by man, and I could name a lot of other theories, such as that homosexuals deserve death or that a woman is responsible for rape, which should primarily concern our Minister for Human Rights. I personally have tried several times that the criticism of Islam leads police and prosecutors into a schizophrenic situation. They themselves have no idea to what extent Islam is legitimate, and police and prosecutors themselves are groping and telling me that the law is so vague that they don't really know how to act. Officially Islam is legitimate, but the thesis it proclaims is, of course, completely anti-democratic and their promotion is quite likely to violate criminal law. So they promote hatred and violence because of faith, sex, etc. Of course, it is a little illogical to say that Muslims are a time bomb, a security risk, at the initiative of the authorities, and, on the contrary, it is entirely legitimate to promote the ideas that our laws are not valid, that women do not have the same rights as men and some deserve draconian killing by stoning. For the record, I will add that my investigation for the above statement on the adherents of Islam ultimately rejected the House's mandate and immune committee last month, which you may not have even registered, even though I did not resist a possible public hearing at the House plenary. And by the way, he's heading to the mandate and immunity committee for another vote on my similar statement. So I think it is necessary to clarify these things, where to go - or what this Islamic ideology is exactly, and where the constraints are for our democratic establishment. The fact that even more misguided babbles and hatred of infidels are promoted in Czech mosques has been discussed many times in their sincerity by Muslims themselves, the BIS, and one report by hidden camera was made years ago even then even by an incorrect Czech TV. In any case, I think it is logical to instruct legal experts, preferably from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, to define whether Islam is an ideology that spreads hatred and is dangerous to democratic establishment or not. Only then can we continue to debate how peaceful this ideology is or not. And why am I turning here to you, the Chamber of Deputies, to put this as a point? Because, of course, I tried to do this to get an explanation like that. I addressed the Supreme Prosecutor in writing and asked them in writing for an opinion on the ideology of Islam and its perception in terms of the Czech Constitution and in terms of Czech law. Unfortunately, I have been rejected in writing by the Supreme Prosecutors, and I have therefore received no legal opinion on this serious issue. I therefore propose that, after the debate within the framework of the joint resolution proposed by me through the political spectrum, because I think it would be good for all of us to know what the limits are in terms of our Constitution and in terms of our rule of law, because the debate will continue and you can see that there are many different statements and many different comments on this subject. So, in a joint resolution, we call on the government to prepare binding positions on Islamic ideology, whether or not it belongs on the list to those who are incompatible with democracy, violate human rights and spread hatred. It will, of course, be a painful and politically incorrect process. But I think it's fair to say that white is white and black is black. And we're gonna have to do it anyway, sooner or later. I think it is time for us to clarify this for the whole society and for lawyers to know, in essence, how to proceed and how to deal with this problem. I do not propose a resolution, I think we should reach it after a general joint debate. And this point is more or less what I propose to do at any time. More or less if the political will were to do so, we can easily include it today after the fixed points, or next Tuesday, January 26th, after the fixed points. I think that this definition really needs to be clarified, because when even the Supreme Prosecutor's Office is unable to give me a written opinion on how the Islamic ideology is comfortable in terms of the Czech Constitution and in terms of Czech laws, so basically when I also spoke to the police, which asked me about my statements, and then for the second time, the delegation and immune committee of the House will vote on them, for the first time in December, the mandate and immune committee of the House refused to issue me, he said that my statements are not in some contradiction, but evidently officials think there might be some contradiction or transgression, so you can see that we are getting into a great vacuum, when for all of us, and for all of you who are expressing the problem, so I think it would be very good to know how legislation is actually building on this, and how the Czech Republic is building on it, so that we can find pure wines and know how we are doing it. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u37	Thank you. This has been the last one to be submitted to the debate so far. Now two factual points. Vladimír Koníček's first comment, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u38	Mr President, I have applied electronically, but with a procedural proposal, so not to a factual point. I would like to ask you for a separate vote on the proposal for a grémia - especially to vote on the inclusion of the press 638, 637 and especially the rest of the proposal for a grémia, because I have a problem with the absence of a 60-day time limit for committee discussions. It will only expire during this meeting. So the only way we can cut it off is if I object to your progress, that you let it go, and just as we decide on the objection, we're gonna take it. [[15.20 hours]] I would also like to point out that the dispute over how to classify is different in each parliamentary term and in each parliamentary term. So I would ask the legislative department to send to this procedure, i.e. The inclusion of the Houses of Press, which do not yet have a time limit for committee discussions, for the opening of the meeting of their opinion. I am not asking that we be familiar with him now, and the only way to break it down is to vote on the opposition to the President's procedure. So I'm hovering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u39	Thank you, I knew this was a procedural proposal, because my colleague Koníček informed me. Now, two priority rights. Mr Kalousek, then President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u40	Hello and thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to embark on the substantive debate that Mr Okamura has developed here, but I just want to say that if he proposes a point that we can decide whether or not this religious movement is in line with our constitutional system, that the government should decide if the Supreme Prosecutor has not responded to it. I dare say he's breaking into an open door. For example, according to the Act on Political Parties and Movements, the central body of the state administration confirms that the party concerned is not contrary to our democratic establishment, the Ministry of the Interior, so that when our or your political party, Mr Okamura, registers, the government authority says: Yes, it is not in contradiction. According to the law on churches and religious societies, this central body is the Ministry of Culture, so when the Ministry of Culture registers such a church or religious movement, the government authority says: Yes, it is not in contradiction. If he finds out it's inconsistent, he'll withdraw the administrative certification. That's not what the Attorney General is here for. And the Muslim Church in the Czech Republic registered with government authority is. That means, if you want to go somewhere, contact the Ministry of Culture, but it's completely nonsense for the House to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u41	Thank you. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u42	I would like to respond to Mr. Koníček's speech. I don't know if in every parliamentary term, but in both of the two where I work in the Chamber of Deputies, the dispute or the debates are going on. I will vote against the objection because I think that the key is to discuss whether the deadline has expired. In the logic of the matter of what Mr Koníček objects, we could not vote today on one classification of the law at third reading, because we do not even know when the deadline will start, let alone the deadline between second and third readings. I've been having this dispute with legislation for five years, when the legislation says we can't include it, and when I ask, "And the third reading can be included if there's no deadline?" Well, they can be. I don't see the logic. I am in favour of getting the position of legislation, but I suggest we make some kind of political agreement on the Gremium and follow it. We don't need a resolution or a law for everything. Of course, we cannot discuss the law at any reading until the deadline has passed, whether the deadline since the bill was passed, from the Government's position, the committee discussions, but they can be on the agenda. Otherwise, what do we do? We don't put it on the program, we give the opposition a chance to block it, sometimes we use it, sometimes we don't, so the government will respond by calling an emergency meeting, and instead of one meeting, we'll run five at a time. That's the only thing. So I am in favour of this, and I propose that next Tuesday we take the political grémie of the Chamber of Deputies to prepare a position, agree on it and follow it. I think we can include it, but we can't discuss it until the deadline is over. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u43	Thank you. If no one applies, I am ending the debate on the programme and we will therefore be dealing with individual proposals. First, therefore, with the procedural proposal made by Mr Koníček, which is an objection to the President's procedure, with a vote on the inclusion of the 39th meeting on 27 January as the first and second points at 14.30, prints 637 and 638. I made it on the block of those proposals, and I'm going to let them vote separately on all three issues, respectively. I originally wanted to vote on the fixed points and then vote separately on the procedural vote on all proposals after 19 o'clock, which I must, that is a separate vote, not a inclusion of the point. Now, therefore, an objection to the President's procedure. The vote number two that I have begun, and I ask who opposes the President's procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2. From 175 to 6, against 124. Objection has not been accepted, We will therefore vote on the individual proposals as they have been presented. First, a proposal from political grémia. The first is the classification of prints 637 and 638 as the first and second points on Wednesday 27 January at 14.30. I've started voting order number three. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3. From the presence of 176 for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now a fixed point for today at 20.00, print 649 I've started voting number four. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 4. Of the 176 Members present for 160, against no one. The motion was accepted. We are now going to vote on the House today to negotiate and to vote on all proposals in a manner and a procedure after 19 o'clock. I've started voting number five. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 5. 178 for 131, against 29 Members present. The motion was accepted. Another proposal is a proposal that has been tabled several times. The first vote will be the vote on Mr Fiedler's proposal, which, following his speech by Mr Mihola, clarified the government's ongoing information on migration policy to 9. 2:00 p.m. We'll decide in the vote number six that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 6. From the present 177 for 76, against 67. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal by Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who presents the item Information on the Migration Crisis, for today as the first item in the meeting. Or Thursday. So there's only gonna be one suggestion, and that's Thursday 21st. 1. after the completion of written interventions, i.e. the first point at 11.00. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 7. From the present 177 for 71, versus 64. The motion was not accepted. [[15.30 hours]] And now, therefore, we will vote on Mr Marek Černoch's proposal on a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies to introduce national border control... Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mrs. Němcová. There's another option. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u44	Mr Vice-President, just so that we can meet exactly how I made the proposal. I wanted to vote on Thursday first, because I justified it so that the government would have some time to prepare. If this proposal fails, I wanted it to be the first item today. So there was an alternative to today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u45	Okay. So, alternatively, we will vote that this would be the first point today, i.e. the Government's information on the migration crisis. We will decide in the vote number 8 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who is the first point against the hearing today? Thank you. In the vote order number 8 of 177 present for 72, against 66. Even this variant was not accepted. We will return to Mr Marek Černoch's proposal - Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to establish the protection of the national borders of the Czech Republic as the first item in today's negotiations. We're going to decide the number 9 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 9 of the present 177 for 52, against 72. The motion was not accepted. We will also look at Mr David Kádner's proposal, in order to put the press to 598, paragraph 117, the draft asylum law, as the first item today. I've started the 10 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour of this assignment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 10 of 177 present for 42, against 74. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on Mrs Jana Hnyková's proposal for tomorrow after the fixed points - Information from the Minister of Health on the health risks of the immigration crisis. I've started voting number 11 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 11 of 177 present for 46, against 73. Nor has this proposal been adopted. And we'll continue. A colleague of Skalický's checking in? No. Thank you. It is Mr Martin Lank's proposal that, today as the first point, when no other point was approved, the informace of the Prime Minister to escape his e-mail correspondence to reality in the Czech Government's negotiations on migration quotas. We will decide in the vote number 12, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 12 from the present 177 for 9, against 124. The motion was not accepted. We will continue, and this is Mrs Olga Havlová's proposal to include a new point in the Information of the Minister of Justice for Criminalisation of the Bloc against Islam as the first point tomorrow afternoon. And in voting number 13, we're going to decide which one I just started. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 13 of 177 present for 8, against 109. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote on Mr Mihola's proposal to deal with resolution 642 9. 2. without determining the hearing hour. President Mihola is reporting to clarify his proposal. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not actually propose a specific inclusion of a point. I've informed you that we intend to place that point that day. It's a coalition deal. I asked the opposition club presidents, and since it's in three weeks, I'd really like the ministers involved in this matter to be a dignified space of time, so please, let's leave some room for fine-tuning so that someone isn't disdained by the loss of one hour from the opposition window. I really want to, because I perceive that there is an interest in putting this point out of all the club members in order to make it the best time of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u47	Now, club presidents with priority rights. Pavel Kováčik, Zbyněk Stanjura, Marek Černoch and Michal Kučera on behalf of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. After all these years, I'm always more naive than I need to be. According to my best knowledge, it was agreed on the Gremium in the morning that the day would take place in the sign of opposition proposals, even at the press conference KSČM I commended myself that there was finally a new wind with the new timetable and that it would finally get to the opposition proposals, and here it will be, and, as President Mihola says, even the coalition agreed that it would be different. Friends, please, we're starting the year. Let us begin with the fact that at least basic agreements will be implemented. I insist that that day be a sign of opposition bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u49	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u50	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, President Kováčik is absolutely right. We agreed on the House Gremium that 9 February would be reserved for opposition proposals. Such an agreement has been made in my presence. I wasn't on any other deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura as President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u52	Mr. Chairman Mihola is sitting across the aisle, but I'll put it on the microphone. You won't grieve with a promise. To say that we all agree that we will discuss this after opposition bills - there are so many that the ninth one will certainly not be enough, and that it will not come to that, or - the second interpretation - the issue of migration only concerns the opposition, the majority of the government, and therefore we will discuss this within the opposition window. Why not? We care. All opposition clubs in voting on different dates when the government is to comply with the House's resolution, and as usual it doesn't, as usual we have to beg and propose over and over again, and the resolution has been valid for almost a year, and the government's regular information is that it's the rule when the opposition yells it out, so maybe in three weeks' time, if you don't get too worked up about your bills, maybe we'll give you a minute. But let's just say it out loud. Migration only worries the opposition. I speak for our club. If you want it in the opposition window, calmly, it's really bothering us. The other bills we put forward are important, but the migration issue is more important. We really don't mind. But you're also saying that as a government majority, you don't care, and that the next 189 points of the parliamentary meeting that we're scheduled to take precedence over that. Why not? But then don't say in the papers and in the media how it bothers you and how you want to deal with it! You don't want to!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marek Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to talk about the same thing Mr. Stanjura said. Here is resolution 642 of February last year, in which the government is obliged to keep the House informed of the positions it will advocate at all foreign negotiations dealing with security and immigration policy. The fact that it's your duty not to do this, that it's shouted out by the opposition, and yet you reject it, then really don't yell into the media how you fight migration, because it's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u55	Now, Mr Michal Kučera - or Mr Kalousek as Chairman of the TOP 09 with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may not have been present on the Gremium, but I think there is a way out of this with good will. There was an agreement that there was an opposition window on Tuesday. The immigration crisis - I agree with President Stanjura - is an extraordinary priority for this House's negotiations. Well, what do you want to do on Wednesday? On Tuesday there will be an opposition window, and on Wednesday we can discuss the immigrant crisis. After all, we can change this program tomorrow or any other day, and on Tuesday it can be an immigrant crisis and on Wednesday there will be an opposition window. What's going on? We don't want to go home on Wednesday. It's Tuesday and Wednesday may there be an immigrant crisis. I don't see the problem. Unless there's something more important to you than the immigrant crisis. Then that's another thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u57	There. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, if he insists on his application. Yes, it is. Then Mr Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u58	Thank you for the floor. I, more or less, just briefly, because my previous speakers explained it. I welcome the assurance by the President of the House that the agreement of the Gremium is in force and that the parliamentary window will be included. I will not comment on President Mihola's speech. There was a clear and decisive maybe. And just not to mention the point about migration. I'd really like to underline one thing here. When the government Members, in particular, feed on their Facebook page, how they want to deal with the immigrant crisis, I promise them that I will always put your vote there so that your supporters can see how you support the resolution of the immigration crisis in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u59	Thank you. Mr Mihola now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u60	Colleagues, I'm actually in the best of my mind trying to deal with all the clubs. I regret, therefore, that colleagues from the coalition ČSSD are somehow unable to agree with each other, at least that's how I see it, because I am one of those who say that the opposition has the right to discuss the point. My opponents also know that I often advocate this. So it's completely absurd for someone to slip me around, that I'd like to lessen some right. That's why I didn't set the time. But okay, even though it's a lot of weeks ahead of us, given what I've been saying - don't let it happen, I've been warned by my colleague Sklenák to avoid the first two weeks - that's why we agreed to the variable week. I agree, of course, with the opposition window. And since this point, all of us, I really suppose, according to all of these speeches before, we consider the refugee crisis point to be very important, I believe that it will not be difficult for us to be here after 19 o'clock. So please place this point after the opposition window at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 9:00 p.m. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u61	The President of the ODS Club and the Chairman of the KSČM Club still have priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u62	There. This is so important for the government MEPs that on 19 January, this is today, they propose the inclusion of the extra important item on 9 February evening. Three weeks. And in the meantime, we're going to be discussing points 18, 19, 62, 63, 64, 48, 44, 45, 54, 55 - and I've only read this for tomorrow's firmness. And today we're going to be doing points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, so we're going to be adding about 80 points that have a higher priority for the government. We can't talk about crashing a meeting, at least not for everyone, because logically - I don't complain and I don't whine - the rhythm of the meeting, most people choose points. And by where you put it, you clearly declare that this is not a priority for you. If it were a priority, you didn't have a fixed point today except for the Senate vomit. We didn't. When we proposed Thursday after the written interpelations where the contracts were, you were against it. So it's more important for the government majority to discuss contracts - wait until I look it up, because it's somewhere far away in the program, but I think it has to be said to know what the priorities are - so we have to debate the government proposal on Thursday, 11th instead of the migration crisis, by which Parliament of the Czech Republic has to agree to ratify the Agreement on transferring and sharing contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels. This is very important for Czech taxpayers to pay other people's debts - at least for the government's majority. It is much more important for us to talk about the migration crisis. And this is very important for Brusel, and we will be highly praised if you approve this agreement by the government votes. But then we also have a higher priority in preventing double taxation between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kazakhstan. Or expressing consent to the ratification of the amendment to Appendix 1 and Annex 2 to the International Convention against Doping in Sport. This would certainly not wait until February 9th, because all of this takes precedence over the serious debate in the House on the migration crisis that the vast majority of our people are talking about today and daily, and in addition, you refuse to comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of Deputies of 11 months ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u63	Mr Kováčik as Chairman of the KSČM Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u64	See, you see, coworkers and colleagues, how we always get caught up in some sort of measure that we're gonna make things work out for ourselves here so we can do better. And it doesn't matter who's in the government, it's always been sort of purposefully adjusted for us, so it's based on the relevant government majority. I would really like to ask: let's stop making the House bigger than it needs to be. And that's the order of the pigeon. Let us talk about the fact that the decisive regulation of the Rules of Procedure will be that the House's press will be discussed in order as they are delivered to the House. As soon as they get the number, it'll be the order. And if there is any really serious theme that is not just a government majority, but, for example, a three-fifth majority believes that it needs to be discussed first, it is the three-fifth majority that can decide that the point will be put forward. Nothing more, nothing less. If we were able to find this or some similar system, all these stretch marks, arguing, all these long-lasting minutes and sometimes long hours of discussion about the modification of the program that day or week or that meeting could be largely limited, and then there would be time for even those super important points. We all see them a little differently, I understand that the government is supposed to rule and that it needs the support of Parliament, but I also understand that, and believe me, after all these years in opposition, I know what it is that the opposition is not stupid that a government coalition always or almost always provides good advice for free. And a good government should stick very carefully to opposition ideas, suggestions and suggestions and make the best of them, because there is nothing wrong, believe me, there is nothing wrong with that. So let us talk about a change in the Rules of Procedure that will not restrict democratic rights and will finally bring order to the conclusion that the press will be discussed in order as they were delivered to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u65	Hello. Mr. Chairman Mihola checked in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u66	Thank you for the floor. I respect President Stanjura for a number of reasons, but I'm very sorry just now. I'm already losing hope here, according to these statements and words, of some sort of solution or reasonable agreement, because when the program that is set up changes, no one has disputed it, and we said to ourselves: 14 days are going on in this way - and beware, opposition points are included there. It's not just a coalition program. The coalition has come to an end. They're listed there at second reading of the opposition points and tonight's inspection reports. [[15.50 hours]] Well, that's not what anybody was arguing about. When the program changes, there would be chaos in the House - wrong. Thus, when it was an effort to keep the programme from changing to a variable week - it is not so great a time distance - even with arguments to prepare to reconcile the diaries by ministers, to correct the resolution and to actually take place here in kind, which does not necessarily take all day, it is also wrong. When the opposition window is set - I say again, I am a supporter and I support it permanently, it is out of respect for colleagues, including colleagues from the ODS, that I said: Okay, first the opposition window and then we are willing, when it is important, that we do not mind acting even tonight. And I find it undignified again. I don't know. I'm willing to change the motion to make it the first point on the day of the opposition window. After all, perhaps all clubs have applied to how important this point is, from coalition to opposition everyone agrees, so let's not play here, please, that someone will be pushed away or reduced by his rights. Or is there anyone who considers that point meaningless, negative, so there's no point in assigning it at all?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u67	Mr President, I'm just going to ask if I should see this as a proposal, which means that you're modifying your proposal for a solid 19-hour assignment so that it's 9. 2. as the first point. Is that how you put it? Excellent. President Kalousek, then President Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u68	I cannot answer the question of President Mihola, who, with all due respect and friendly respect, reminds me of the speaker who said "I have my opinion," but gradually stopped to identify with him. When he says, "Is there anyone here who thinks that point is irrelevant?" Yes, members of the government coalition! Because if they thought it was important, they wouldn't want to discuss 88 other points before. I respect that you have made this proposal, Mr President, we are likely to encourage him to get somewhere, or we will be delayed, I don't know, we will consult. But in any case, we will perform every morning, read what points are to be discussed, and ask you the rhetorical question, if there is anyone who thinks these points are more important than the immigrant crisis, and we will propose a point for the immigrant crisis every day. And answer us with your vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u69	Mr. President Černoch, then Mr. Mr. Mr. Kučera. Then Prime Minister Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u70	Thank you for the floor. I understand from this that the government's information on the immigrant crisis is an opposition issue, that it should be put in the opposition window. This is a resolution to be followed by the government. Not that the opposition had to ask for a term, and so it was still being put into the day when opposition proposals should be discussed. If there is a resolution - a resolution has been adopted, the government should comply with it, not lab about when. In that case, we can withdraw our proposal, and I can propose now, at the moment, that we include it as the first item on today's day, the government's information on the migration crisis. Because that's how it sounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u71	Mr. Mr. Kučera. Then Prime Minister Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u72	Thank you for the floor. Maybe we'll talk about obstructions again sometime, so let's remember that we had an almost closed program, and now our colleague Mihola has put him back into further discussions as a coalition MP. However, I was trying to find some information value in President Mihola's speech. I didn't do very well, but I think I found one there, and that point should be voted in the evening. That's how I understood it. And not the first point. This means that I would very much like President Mihola to clarify when he wants to vote on this point. And the fact that that point will be voted in that opposition window means that in the three weeks of the House's meeting, when the opposition has only one afternoon for its proposals, you put an immigrant crisis in it, I find that absolutely outrageous and disrespectful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u73	Chairman Kováčik, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I insist on my requests to stop making this a dovehouse here. Yes, I like the proposal made by President Mihola, evening or first point. But in that case, I ask when we will discuss the dozens of opposition proposals that this House is constantly pushing. Because it's a very important topic, but we're not just here for that. We are also here to discuss draft laws and other points that are in order as they come here to the Chamber of Deputies. We're not just here to discuss the crisis we're talking about. I feel that my colleague Mihola's proposal is actually such an elegant sweep with the opposition as a whole, and then we will in vain demand that we discuss opposition bills who knows when, perhaps sometimes on svatý Dynda. I think it is time for us to stop looking back at what we, as opposition parties, are allowed to do or do not allow us to come here at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at all with our bills. I call on the other opposition parties now, here from this point of view, to discuss quite seriously the convening of an extraordinary meeting on the subject of discussing opposition bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u75	Thank you. I'll ask if anybody else is checking in. If not, then we will proceed to the vote with the fact that President Mihola modified his original proposal to include the item entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis at 9. 2. as the first item in the House meeting. That's how the petitioner agrees. We will decide on this by voting. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 14, registered is 177, for 73, against 43. This proposal has not been adopted. The next vote will be dealt with by Mrs Bohdalová. I only ask the lady to agree that, given the previous vote, that point 141 on 27. 1. will not be the first, but the third. Is that okay with that? Yes. So I'm taking the vote. I ask who agrees with Mrs Bohdalová's proposal. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 15, registered is 177, for 137, against 9. The motion was accepted. Mr Fiedler proposes that today's first item be discussed by the press 657, the law on detention centres for illegal immigrants in foreign states. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? [[Reply off microphone - after fixed points.]] As far as I know, they're not, so first point. Okay, so that's how it's gonna be. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 16, registered is 176, for 42, versus 72. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Okamura proposes an analysis of Islamic theory... [[Laughs in the hall.]] Which is to be classified today after fixed points. [[A note from the diaper.]] I'm sorry, I got a background from my colleague Filip, it says a theory. [[A note from the diaper.]] I ask the Member to give the title of the item once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u76	I thought you were deliberately demeaning this place. My proposal for a point is an analysis of Islamic ideology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u77	Thank you for the clarification. I'm sorry, but I read it from the files I received. And that would be the first point today, because we don't have any fixed points. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 17, 177, for 12, against 125, this proposal has not been adopted. We've dealt with all the proposals that have fallen. I will ask whether this is the case or whether anyone feels that his proposal has not been voted on. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a programme as a whole. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the draft agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 18, registered is 177, for 109, against 23. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. Mr. Chairman Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u78	Mr President, I would like to ask for a break at the meeting of the KDU-ČSL Parliamentary Club for a period of 20 minutes, and at the same time, please ask the President of all other Members' Clubs if we could meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u79	Thank you. I'll interrupt the House meeting and meet you at 4:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-001-999.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologises, between 16 and 21 o'clock, for working reasons, and Mr Korte apologizes between 17.15 and 21 o'clock for working reasons. So many apologies. We'll continue the negotiations. Before we proceed to discuss the bill returned to the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, that Senator Emilia Třísková and Senator Libor Michálek be given the floor. Information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in your mail and we will decide on the possibility to speak by vote. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. I'll ask who agrees with Senator Senator Třísková's performance and Senator Michálek. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 19, registered 108, for 102, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So I'm opening a point.
