ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u1	45. Government bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended /German press 510/ - first reading This item has been interrupted in the general debate following Mrs Černochová's speech, but I do not have any other applications from the previous meeting. And if the Minister wishes to speak with priority rights, he'll be given the floor. No need. In that case, I ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's table, and those who are duly enrolled in the debate, Mr Benda and Mr Plíšek, after him, will be given the floor. So Mr. Marek Benda has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u2	Mr President, Minister, Minister and other gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I know it is quite late, so I will try to be very brief. Moreover, it has been quite a long time since the first reading, so in my opinion many technical things have become clear and clarified in the discussion with the authorities, so perhaps only two slightly more general remarks. The first is that one of the objectives, from the senses of the proposed law, is that it is suddenly admitted that the assembly in the country can be convened by everyone, not just by the citizens and companies who have their seat in the country. Perhaps there are European reasons for this, yet I am not sure if it is the best idea for anyone in any corner of the world to be able to summon anything here without administrative and other responsibilities, which, after all, is much easier to enforce from our citizens. If this is really the goal that we wanted, and I think that in committee negotiations, we will consider how much it is essential that we open up to this extent the right of assembly for everyone who ever appears here. That's the first point. The second point concerns purely Parliament. So far, the rule has been that it is forbidden to demonstrate a hundred metres from the places, from the buildings of the legislatures and the places where these congregations act. I know that this raises some problems in Prague, but the solution that has been chosen to name several surrounding streets where it is forbidden to demonstrate, I think that there is a solution that, although it seems simple for officials, is clear that demonstrations cannot take place there, even though those of you who have been here for a long time remember that it was not a demonstration, for example, but only marching and marching around the Chamber of Deputies and saying: it is not a demonstration. At the same time, however, this does not secure the second part of the condition, the place in which these congregations act. In some situations, the legislatures or their bodies may act for various reasons outside the House of Deputies or the Senate. There may be a number of reasons. I believe that then it would also be necessary to protect against pressure from demonstration actions. That is, yes, if the situation in the immediate vicinity of the seat of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate wants to make it easier, then let it be stated which are the alleys, but that the other part of the condition - even where the legislatures are acting, it is not possible to immediately develop this public pressure - should be observed, because I believe that even if it seems to be something that does not play a major role, that it is the traditional rules known from far more established democracies than we are, and that they have them there for reasonable reasons. These are merely brief remarks which will lead, if necessary, to a discussion on the committee, but I wanted them to be heard at this first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a good evening. For a very short time, I will just follow up on my colleague Benda, who spoke of Annex number one to the proposal tabled, which sets out where the exercise of the right of assembly is prohibited within the two chambers of Parliament. I have already introduced and announced in the past that at second reading I will present an amendment which will add Annex 2 to the law, because, as we know, last November 17th, Albertov was used for completely different purposes than to celebrate the State Day of the Fight for Freedom and Democracy. Therefore, as in Annex No. 1 in Annex No 2 I propose that the public holidays relating to 5 and 6 July, 28 September and 17 November should always be linked to a specific place, namely Velehrad, Husinec, Stara Boleslav and in Prague Albertov and the National Class in the sense that meetings at these places in these dates could only be held for a purpose linked to a given national holiday. If the caller fails to do so, the assembly could be banned, or if this provision of the law were violated there, the meeting could be dissolved. I did not think that I would have to make such a proposal, however, that Albertov was literally stolen from students and universities on 17 November is so warning that I am calling on this amendment to be tabled in the constitutional committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u5	Thank you. I still have a point of fact here, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have responded to my colleague Plíšek. I understand his proposal, I understand his reasons, I was also disgusted by what was going on at Albertov's, but, my colleague, through the President, you will not be able to solve this with this restriction. As you know, March 17th November began in Vyšehrad. Coincidentally, I'm also the jurisdiction in which I'm mayor. So if anyone wants to take advantage of the memory of November 17th, they'll always find that option. I think that we should all be on our feet in this and not indulge our legal order with standards that, even if we may feel emotionally that they might be right, they will be completely dysfunctional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u7	Thank you. I do not see any more applications for the debate; I am ending the debate. I'll ask the Minister - he's not interested. The rapporteur? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u8	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I note that the motion to reject the law was not tabled at first reading. The debate that has taken place here gives the basis for us to be on the constitutionally legal committee, which apparently, and I agree with the proposal that the constitutionally legal committee be designated as a committee of guarantee, gives the basis for dealing with the draft law with honor. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-013-045.u9	Thank you and we will therefore consider the proposal for the commandment. First of all, we will decide on the guarantee committee, and as has already been done here, there is a proposal from the organisational committee that the guarantee committee should be a committee of constitutional law. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. This is not the case and we will therefore decide by vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the Guarantee Committee be the Constitutional Legal Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting time is 135, registered 127, for 116, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So we have determined the guarantee committee and there is no further proposal for another committee. I'll ask if anyone from the diaper wants to propose a commandment to another committee. It's not like that. In that case, I thank both the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this press. [[19.30 hours]] However, the Minister remains because we will discuss the point
