ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-003-178.u1	178. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons From Forced Disappearance /Household Press 896/ - Second Reading Please let Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-003-178.u2	Thank you. This time we have a quieter point. It is, as has been said, the International Convention for the Protection of Persons From Forced Disappearance. Let me remind you once again - it's a second reading, but let me remind you what forced disappearance is. In some states, one simply disappears there. This, of course, happens in all states, but in those states, it happens either with a certain tolerance of state power, or even a waiver of personal freedom by the very state, with the fact that the state power refuses to acknowledge the fact of the waiver of personal freedom. We don't know where the person is, we can't find out. Or any legal protection is refused to be granted to the person concerned. So that's in the description of the phenomenon that's happened and it's happening. I remind you that this happened in Yugoslavia, there were many such cases in Chechnya, but it also happened apparently in Crimea, there are such disappearances in Donbas, where we cannot even find out where they are, etc. And the most massive one lately, the most massive one is definitely Syria. There are tens of thousands of people disappearing like this. And, of course, a number of countries in Africa, which I could probably also name, and unfortunately, there would be more. This is the case itself. This international convention was approved by the UN General Assembly in December 2006. It entered into force in 2010. It is now about ratification. I would like to ask that we ratify this. I suppose there'll be an agreement for that. It's just a continuous Czech position. That would be more surprising if we behaved differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-003-178.u3	I thank the Minister. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Matěj Fichtner's foreign committee to justify to us the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 896/1. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-003-178.u4	Thank you for the floor. Nice retro noon. Let me briefly summarize the discussion of this press in the Chamber of Deputies. The International Treaty was submitted to the House on 23. 8. 2016 stating that at the meeting of the plenary on 15. 9. 2016 was ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee by Resolution No. 1359. On 6 October 2016, the Foreign Committee adopted a resolution stating that following the reasoning of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Martin Smolek, Mr Matěj Fichtner's parliamentary report and the Foreign Committee's debate: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to ratifying the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Disappearance, stating that the following statements will be made when depositing the instrument of ratification: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Disappearance declares that the Czech Republic recognises the competence of the Committee on Forced Disappearance to receive and assess notifications made by individuals subject to the jurisdiction of the Committee on Forced Disappearance or on behalf of individuals subject to the jurisdiction of the Committee on Forced Disappearance who claim that they are victims of a violation of the provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearance by the Czech Republic. In accordance with Article 32 of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons From Forced Disappearance, the Czech Republic declares that it recognises the competence of the Committee on Forced Disappearance to receive and assess notifications in which the participating State claims that another participating State does not fulfil its obligations under the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons From Forced Disappearance. II. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic III. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee - which I have just done. I would merely explain why the resolution of the Foreign Committee proposes that the Czech Republic issue these declarations, i.e. the declarations referred to in Article 31 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, pursuant to Article 32. The International Treaty, as submitted and ratified, or both under the ratification process and Article 31 (2) of the Treaty, shall be adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council. 1... She, on the one hand, is setting up a committee on forced disappearances. A in Article 31 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1 - a participating State may, when ratifying this Convention or at any time thereafter, declare that it recognises the competence of that Committee in relation to individuals who may refer to the Committee. And in Article 32, it is essentially the same with the fact that it is a submission that is always made by the participating State. This means that the Foreign Committee is proposing to the Chamber of Deputies that these statements be made by the Czech Republic. The Committee on Forced Disappearance will then have this authority against the Czech Republic as well. From our point of view, I'm sure it's nothing conflicting. As the Minister has already said here and on the foreign committee, the Czech Republic already meets all the requirements imposed on the Czech Republic by the international convention from a legislative point of view. There is no reason why it would not also submit to the powers of the Committee on Forced Disappearance. It's just another check. We are a democratic state that recognises human rights, so there is no problem. Just one more small supplement. In essence, the Senate approved the same wording of those statements on 19 October 2016. So now we're just waiting for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-003-178.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur has said. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 44. 125 Members and Members are registered, for 113, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
