ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /house print 854/ - first reading We had the Minister's speech, we had the rapporteur's speech, and the debate was not open. I ask if the Minister and the rapporteur still want to comment on their opening words. It's not like that. I can therefore open the debate immediately. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Marta Semelová is the first to sign in, and Mrs Jitka Chalánková will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for a State Social Support Act should, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, contribute to better reconciliation of work and family life. This purpose has our support, because the vast majority of young families definitely need support from the state. And not only in the context of parental contribution, but also in terms of economic security, housing, work, children's financial availability of education, extracurricular interest and health care. However, this comprehensive system assistance to young families with children is not addressed by this amendment. This is therefore true of this proposal, which deals with cosmetic modifications rather than helping those young families who are falling into existential problems. Today, they are two, three, and four years of parental allowance at draw speed. The amendment does not change the total amount, i.e. 220 thousand, but will be able to be drawn in less time. What we see as dubious is that it is aimed primarily at high-income groups of inhabitants, i.e. those who earn over CZK 81,000. They will be able to draw the highest possible amount, namely CZK 32 640. This amount will be exhausted in six months and then we call them de facto - you can leave the baby at home and go to work. Otherwise, of course, they can work during the six months. And here's what I'm saying: isn't that how a kid gets a little sidetracked? Isn't his needs and interests forgotten? At the age of only six months, constant contact with a close person, with a mother or father, is very important for his healthy development. [[18.10 hours]] I realize that an early return to work is very important for many mothers, for various reasons. For some, this is important due to the adverse economic situation of the family, for others due to concerns about job loss, for others due to career building, or to concerns about developments in an area that prevents them. There's no way I'm questioning the need for these parents to go to work. But at a time when the baby's only six months old, it's really early. The government should focus on such support that the family does not miss out and fall into or below the poverty line so that the needed care for the young child can be taken care of. I stress once again that we consider the involvement of women in the work process to be very important. Mixing up family and working life is an important topic that needs to be paid constant attention to economic security, but also to ensure that a woman does not lose contact with the working environment and with changes that occur in the professional field in order to have a place to go, to get back to, to apply her education, knowledge and skills, and at the same time to have the opportunity to take care of her child. The problem when a woman falls out of the work process is reflected, among other things, in the subsequent salary assessment, in the late-age pension, which according to statistics is much lower than in men, but also has other problems, which are a number of in relation to motherhood. It's no coincidence that motherhood and retirement are tickets to poverty. The government must therefore focus primarily on prevention, so that families do not get into a situation where they have to be in debt, just to pay rent, school supplies, interest, school lunch or holiday. And I consider this insufficient in the government's work. I also consider it important to strengthen the principle of solidarity, which was greatly humiliated under Nečasův' government. It is not only a matter that we are discussing, but also, for example, tax laws, namely progressive taxation. With regard to the abolition of restrictions for non-profit-making citizens, such as students, self-employed people, non-employed people, not paying social insurance, or those who have a small or minimal daily basis of assessment, I think so, this proposal will help to receive a parental allowance at a given time, but it is also necessary to deal with the following period of time, which will then, after a quicker withdrawal of the contribution, not to fall into a material emergency. So we see these question marks in connection with the proposed amendment as a KSČM club a whole number and it will be necessary to discuss the proposal properly during the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u3	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. The words will be taken by Mrs Jitka Chalánková and Mr Zdeněk Soukup will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u4	Hello, Mr President. It is a government bill, House press 854, which amends Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support. The amendment concerns adjustments in the area of one benefit of state social support, namely parental contribution. The declared objective is the maximum flexible dose adapted to the family situation. I would like to say that neither of the measures can in any way contribute positively to the reconciliation of working and family life, because parental contribution is not an obstacle to reconciliation. The amendment will allow parents to exhaust their parental allowance more quickly, and parents whose infants will be in the nursery all day long will also be entitled to parental allowance. This is not a measure to support families. Brief presentation of the parental contribution according to current adjustment. Parental allowance is not the same as parental leave. The benefit of state social support is not linked to the drawing of parental leave with the employer. And who receives parental allowance may not be tied to a child's home today without the possibility of being employed. It should be stressed here that children under two years of age can only stay in collective care under strict limited conditions and that children over two years of age do not go to collective facilities. Parental allowance can be obtained during employment and is not limited to earnings. In fact, this is also a situation where further and further relaxation of the conditions for receiving parental allowance is constantly taking place. The child to whom the parent receives parental allowance can be taken care of personally by the receiving parent, provided by another person, may be the second parent, but also today the nanny or nanny, or the child can visit a collective establishment, as I said, in children under the age of 40 hours per month only within two years. There's no follow-up over two years. A parent's contribution can be received by any parent and can also take turns in the drawing. The total amount of the parental allowance is CZK 220 000 and there are various variations, above, the rate of drawing that depends on cash assistance in motherhood, respectively. from the daily assessment base of any parent they choose which is more advantageous for them. When neither parent was entitled to cash assistance in motherhood, virtually. it cannot be established a daily assessment basis, it applies mainly to students, but also to self-employed workers without sickness insurance, economically inactive persons and unemployed persons, nowadays receives parental allowance in fixed doses for four years without choice, 7 600 to the ninth month of age and then 3 800 to four years. And there's another and another, I won't read all the details. The main points of this amendment: First, abolishing the upper limit of the amount of parental allowance, which is currently 11,500. Secondly, people without a daily basis could draw up up to 7,600. Third - full cancellation of the conditions for monitoring the attendance of a child in a pre-school establishment for entitlement to a benefit. And fourthly, not to provide parental allowance to foster parents for a transitional period. The first part. As has already been done here, people with higher incomes will be able to exhaust parental allowance faster. The point is that the amount of parental allowance will be determined in the same way as for cash assistance in maternity, i.e. up to CZK 32 640. In this case, this measure or this proposal concerns a total of 179 950 parents, the number being thirty times the 70 per cent of the daily assessment base above 11 500. For these, it can be assumed that they will use the cancellation of the upper limit. This possibility is just there and it will be. We don't have a strictly negative view here. Second, top 09. Persons without a daily assessment basis will be able to exhaust parental allowance earlier, that is, within three years, not until the four, as it was before or as it is now. The measure will mainly help students or students if their father receives it. This is a total of 69 981 recipients of parental allowance for 2015. We have a neutral position on this, we're not against it. Thirdly - and I consider this to be a very important warning: Everyone to whom a child is born and is in care will be entitled to parental allowance, i.e. the child is not in the care of a collective establishment. This is an individual care for the child. It is such as to say in quotation marks higher birth rates on instalments - for 6 to 36 instalments. Completely lost the original sense of parental contribution to appreciate the personal care of parents for children. A year old can be in a nursery for days, a parent can earn as much as he wants, and six months later, he gets a full parental allowance at home. This particular point - and this is different from the first point, as I said, that if a child has individual care within two years, then we have no objection - this particular point means a complete resignation to reward a parent's child's personal care and declares that it is as good for toddlers as it is for a mother to do with them as when they are eight hours a day in a collective establishment. It's a symbol when we actually see a complete resignation on the child's best interest. For TOP 09, I can say that we have a categorically negative attitude. In no way does it mean that moms can't go into employment, but they have to go into two years, at least two years old, I personally as a pediatrician would be in three years old, to provide individual care for a child, whether it be a nanny, whether it be a grandmother, which is all possible nowadays, but not a collective establishment. I would intercede for myself in three years. When it happened that the attendance of children in a collective establishment is not over two years old, it really is, hopefully, the last frontier that social democracy will try to break. For us the attitude categorically negative. [[18.20 hours]] Four. At present, foster parents receive a generous reward for the transitional period, and in the fastest possible alternative, they will be exhausted from parental allowance to biological parents, so that when the child returns to them, these biological parents are no longer entitled to parental allowance or to long-term foster parents who receive significantly lower remuneration for the exercise of foster care than our working group, which I mentioned here in plenary, repeatedly points out both the Ministry and the Social Policy Committee. This measure prevents such practice. For TOP 09, the attitude is positive. Given how I have been through the various sections of this proposal, I hope that we will only be able to choose from what is beneficial and positive in the committees and, on the other hand, that what is categorically disadvantageous for the best interest of the child will not be achieved, and this is primarily the relaxation of the possibility of entering collective establishments below the age of two years of the child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will now appear, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have some reservations about what the law maker says is beneficial. I am thinking of greater flexibility in receiving a parental contribution. I mean, the possibility of shortening parents' immediate child care periods and increasing their monthly parental allowance. The amendment allows the mother's care for a child to be reduced to six months of his age, I would say ideally, or worst case. While this may benefit the labour market, it may also be financially beneficial for the families themselves, but I would dare to doubt their responsibility. The question for discussion is how much it is in the interests of the child himself, the legal language of cui bono, to whom it will serve. Kids aren't gonna make it. Let's take the expert council to help. I'm not such an expert and specialist, so I was trying to learn. In the first six months of a child's life, there is the birth of an attachment, where the child begins to distinguish persons from the 12th week of the child's age, and the nearest child begins to react with a smile or a baby. The period from the 6th month of age to about two years of life is referred to as the phase of a special attachment. The child is fully dependent on the mother, the mother, the separation from her is difficult for him, causing protest, crying, and despair in the child. That's what professional literature says. Symptoms of an attachment disorder - according to American psychoanalyst Dr. Sanda Anderson, such a child can form superficial contacts, prone to accidents and injuries, has weak control of impulsive behavior. It is only between the second and third years of age that dependence on the mother decreases and gradually self-relationships occur, which is why the child can already get into kindergarten at three, even if it is very difficult for him at first. But its development can go on because the world is enriched with contacts with peers, new things in the great world. At the same time, a three - year - old child already knows that even when a mother goes away, she won't disappear forever. She can get the idea in her head of a mother who likes him and thinks about him even when she's not with him. More flexibility is somewhat problematic when deciding on the drawing of the parental contribution. The petitioner may argue that the duration of the parental allowance is not related to maternity leave, but we know how it works. As a somewhat problematic proposal, I also see that they are not entitled to receive parental allowance from temporary foster parents. Basically, it's a step in the right direction. There have really been cases where foster parents have spent an entire amount per year at the expense of spare families and other permanent caregivers. Of course, it is worth considering what led them to this. I was recently visited by a transitional foster mom in the MP's office. As a reward for his service, he receives about 20 grand a month. Crowns. As a contribution to a temporary child, so-called contribution to the child's needs, 4,500 thousand. Crowns. When she presented me with the bills of how much the real cost was, I had to give her the truth that it was possible to pay for diapers and baby food from that amount. The lady also has a child with a developmental defect. Where should he take on frequent travel to the doctor? Where is he supposed to get the clothes, the stroller, the transport, all sorts of tests? We have calculated that the contribution to the reimbursement of needs should be about twice as high. The woman subsidizes the difference from the foster pay and from other income to the family budget, at the expense of her own children. This is, of course, hard to think of with single parents, who, as experience shows, are among the best temporary foster parents. So many considerations about the two issues that we will have to consider, I would say, at second reading and, above all, when discussing the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u7	I thank Mr Zdeněk Soukupa. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will now take the floor. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u8	Good evening. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, in connection with the amendment to Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, I perceive the risks towards fulfilling the extremely important role of a mother, but also of a father in the early development of a child. This has already been discussed by colleague Soukup, colleague Chalánková and other speakers. I must say that, on the one hand, I understand the financial or other need of some families for the early return of a mother to work or the need for greater flexibility in drawing the amount of parental allowance, but I believe that increasing pressure on the early return of mothers to work is a significant risk to the harmonious development of our children. It is therefore definitely worth taking these risks into account from my point of view and making an adjustment in the legislative process from my point of view to a far too liberal way of drawing on the parental contribution proposed. For me, too, the limit for the transition from individual child care to a collective limit of two years of age. I do not want to address all aspects of the proposed amendment in detail at first reading today, as well as the previous speakers have already talked about a number of them, but I will touch on Amendment 8, which, among other things, repeals measures concerning persons who cannot be assessed on a daily basis and who have been able to draw parental contribution only in fixed amounts without choice. These persons are now allowed to receive an optional parental allowance of up to CZK 7,600 per calendar month. In particular, the original regulation was seen as discriminatory from the parties concerned, as has already been said here, for example students, self-employed workers who do not pay sickness insurance or who are economically inactive, in view of the impossibility of choosing the amount and the duration of the parental allowance. I can agree with this criticism at the heart, but at the same time I see the risks to these groups of affected individuals that the relaxed drawing of parental allowance brings. In particular, students or persons who are economically inactive risk actually losing the total amount of parental allowance, which is set at 220 thousand. CZK, in an accelerated regime, which will restore needs other than those for which they are designated by law. There is a real risk that these families, couples, will address their unhappy financial situation with the demands of other social benefits over the next period. In my opinion, these risks are quite high, and I therefore consider discussing the launch of this part of Amendment No. Eight for the important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u9	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mrs Markéta Adamová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, I remember when we, as KDU-ČSL Members, proposed an increase in parental allowance from CZK 3,800 to CZK 7,600 per month in 2005 or 2006 that we were the subject of great criticism. This proposal, which was then amended by one of our colleagues, was voted repeatedly several times. And when it became clear that this proposal had great support, so did the predecessor of the Minister, then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Zdeněk Škromach, came forward and questioned the vote and said that when such a will is to support this proposal, he too wanted to support it. All I'm saying is that at the time, there was a will to appreciate the mother's care for the child, but I also want to say that the money is money for the mother's dedication to the child. And the fact that the parental contribution was allowed to draw for four years had a rational basis. I think that doctors themselves know best, and especially psychologists, that the time of a mother and child, the time when a mother can devote herself fully to her child, is best for the child and for his future healthy development. They say it should be at least three years. When, in the parliamentary period 2006 to 2010, the rapid drawing of the parental contribution was made possible, when the period was actually reduced to two years, I think that is the limit beyond which it should not go. Therefore, I cannot support proposals that reduce the drawdown period to just six months. I think that this is an outright antisocial measure that will backfire on the whole of society. That is why I do not really support this proposal and I have already told the Minister in one of the radio debates. I therefore beg you not to do this so that we do not allow the pumping for six months. It is a demotion of parental contribution and, in particular, it is a degradation of the company's resignation to the fact that the mother will not have enough time to pay attention to her child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u11	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I'll ask my colleague Adamová to be patient. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I would just point out one thing that we have two important demographic trends against each other. The first is that we have the average birth age of the first child around the 1930s, i.e. in a very high stage already professional training performance etc. Second, the proportion of children who are born to single parents and where the responsibility of the mother not only for care and upbringing, but for sustenance, is simply crucial. And third, and I will not forgive myself, purely professionally, I think that the Minister should take out the data that is about the structure of the use of maternity leave, and show how individual categories of mothers married, married, with partners in each region draw. And if she had this House, she doesn't have to haze here with certain a prior, in my opinion, value points and we can look at the data. Clearly, we have the luxury of one of Europe's longest maternity leave. Really luxurious even in that band for six months. So it must also be perceived that we must and want society, the economy to be dynamic, modernised, and part of this is the growing share of women who have children without cohabitation in marriage or partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of fact. I'll ask my colleague Adamová to be patient. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u14	Probably to explain the last sentence that Mr Gabal said. Apparently, he was referring to parental contribution, not maternal, the structure of how it is drawn, and just the explanation. And so that the debate isn't quite simple, you've described it well that the number of children born outside of marriage is growing, but many are in a partnership relationship, even though they're pretending that the woman is a single parent, and that's a big problem. And you know why? There's little money left in that system for the real singles, and that's the thing we should be dealing with. They handle it quite well by some surrounding countries, where they actually investigate whether it is a single person or a single person, which is a completely different problem. I'm sure the parenting structure, I don't know if a mother's professional classification or age group could be a clue, but it certainly won't be a clue in the number of singles. I think the real singles deserve more support than they do today. But if we don't distinguish it and we have it like today, that is. de facto on some own statement, if I simplify it a little bit, so we can't afford the higher support because it's too much suffering by it but those who deserve this support more than today, and that's the thing we should be doing, and there I think we can find a match. It's a general problem, because this is not a social benefit, but it's really support for the family and raising the child. But the problem is that when it's too wide a circle of those who get it, the most needy don't get as much as they deserve. This is logical, because the volume is roughly the same, and I think it's much more important that we focus in this direction and try to identify and describe it. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u15	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Markéta Adamová, duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of July last year, I submitted a bill amending Law No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, you will find it under the House press 535. The Government has given a negative opinion on this proposal. One reason was that he wanted to prepare his own proposal, which will have rules on payment of parental allowance. In opposition, unfortunately, one has to get used to the fact that his proposals do not reach first reading and that there are long series of proposals on which months or even years merely sit dust. For your information, our club currently only has 30 such proposals. And then when we look at the overall points on the agenda, currently around 260, it is clear to everyone, including myself, that the opposition will not reach until the last row, which means practically at all today. That is why I might be pleased that even the Ministry realized that the amendment to this law was appropriate, and a little alibistically I might think that my initiative was an imaginary kick for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it finally hastened the work on their own proposal. However, I am not pleased because the proposal brings only some of the appropriate changes that can make life easier for the parents of young children and, on the contrary, contains some changes that are inappropriate and that can reasonably be feared for the negative impact. The proposal we are discussing now, e.g. facilitates the payment of the parental allowance so that all who cannot be determined on the date of birth of the child on a daily basis allow it to be selected up to CZK 7,600 per month, e.g. Even people who have been unemployed for a long time. The current regulation clearly states that those who have not been in the sickness insurance scheme in the long term are required to pay the maximum amount of the allowance from the tenth month of the child's age, i.e. for four years at present, corresponding to a monthly allowance of CZK 3,800. I understand, for example. for students, the current regulation is quite disadvantageous, but I believe that if we want to create a more welcoming system for them, this can be done in other ways. By allowing everyone to receive parental allowance within the fastest time period, it is proposed within practically one year of the child's age. It can be expected that even this will be used by people socially weaker and will result in their stressful situation after the rapid exhaustion of the full amount of the contribution. However, a number of previous speakers and the rapporteur have already spoken about this in her opening words, so I will not elaborate any more. [[18.40 hours]] Another change that I do not consider to be happy is the complete abolition of the conditions for monitoring the attendance of a child in preschool establishments, i.e. in children under two years of age. When I was talking about my bill, I must say that I, too, proposed to amend this condition, but not to completely abolish it. The adjustment, which I consider better and I recommend it, corresponds to half the time, which I consider sufficient. My proposal also included a substantial change which the Ministry's proposal does not offer, but which would help reconcile family and professional life and help involve grandparents in families where possible, where they can and want to participate in the care of the smallest. I called this change parental for my grandparents. It's kind of a working title. However, the aid would be created by extending the circle of persons for whom the minimum assessment base would not be established and for which the state of insurance is the payer, namely for grandparents. I believe that this change, which does not significantly burden the state budget, can really help many to resolve a situation where they do not want to entrust the child to the care of collective facilities, which I also do not consider appropriate, but for whatever reason they want to return to work earlier, and at the same time one of their grandparents, who is still of working age, can help them. I believe that the family should be able to freely decide on care for their children. Therefore, at second reading, I will be happy to table amendments that will really help families and not the other way around. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u17	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. This was the last written entry into the debate. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate from the scene. If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? The final word is yes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u18	I thank all those who participated in the first reading of the discussion. I thank my fellow Member Soukup, who learned the childhood age of a newborn, a toddler and a baby and told us psychomotor development. I am glad that, as rapporteur, I have also pointed out that if this proposal goes through the second reading, we really need to focus on making this law not worse so that it is burdened with our state budget by reducing the time of drawing actually to the unemployed, as they are called, economically weak, and thus entering into the benefits of material distress. So I will certainly also initiate an amendment to set this point off. I have to agree with my colleague Stanjura about single mothers, because I personally have experience from abroad, where when it comes to checking on the single mother, someone -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u19	Madam rapporteur, I will interrupt you. I'll ask the House for peace. The rapporteur's final word on this press. Please take it easy, colleagues. I'm sure I'll let you move the conversations from the foyer to the hall in silence. Just a little longer... [[Still noisy in the hall.]] I'm asking my colleagues from left to right to left... Let's do it again. [[Hello! And the O.R.'s getting quieter.]] Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u20	Thank you. So I guess the checks aren't going through with us. Mommy here now wants the state to pay off, for example. alimony. But here we have a really so-called. many singles, just because their partners are logged in e.g. With their parents, they are not in their homes. When the check comes in, abroad, when he finds one of his socks, he takes it away from them. I'm afraid that's not the case here. So we also have reserves in this. Because single moms, as colleague Stanjura says through yours, the real single moms really don't have enough money, and these, which actually take more doses from our system, aren't gonna work. So I think in setting all these doses, we have a lot to catch up on in our state to make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u21	Thank you to the rapporteur. There has not been any motion to return or to refuse, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 172, which I am initiating, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the commandment of the Social Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 172, from 139 in favour of 118, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee to discuss it? It's not like that. And sorry, co-worker Soukup reporting. I'm sorry I missed you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u22	I would also recommend ordering this press to the Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-006-033.u23	Okay, that's a legitimate proposal to order an equal opportunity committee and a family. We will decide in the vote 173, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of this permanent committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 173, 140 for 106, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has also been directed to the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies for Family and Equal Opportunities. That's how we've exhausted all the proposals. The time limit for the hearing was 60 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 33. Let's continue with point number
