ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /German press 841/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to present, as part of my second reading, a draft law amending the pre-school, basic, medium, higher vocational and other education law. As I have already informed you in the first reading, we are seeking to eliminate the unequal position of individual beneficiaries of State aid, i.e. regions and individual regional and municipal schools. We are seeking to ensure a really effective spending of state budget funds, i.e. to ensure that the funds follow both the reality of the education provided and the level of pay in each school. We also want transparency for schools and their employees, greater predictability for school directors. We believe that we will thus ensure a greater possibility of targeted implementation of support for the priority interests of the State in the field of education. Therefore, we propose to take into account objective differences in educational systems in individual regions, to eliminate the different funding of the same fields of education, the inequality in the remuneration of employees and the negative effects associated with such a reduction in the number of pupils that are insignificant from the point of view of the organisation of education, but can lead the school to serious economic problems in the current system. We also eliminate economic pressure in secondary schools to receive as many pupils as possible. We therefore refrain from financing regional education through Republic and regional standardists. This system will only be maintained for the financing of education and school services provided by school establishments, except for the financing of wage expenses for school staff. I would also like to begin by commenting on the debates that were on the school committee or which appear within the public area. I would like to say that although the law itself logically does not contain specific numbers of children in individual classes, government regulations that accompany this law and which are negotiated with expert associations of schools and with other partners ensure such standards. To put it simply, we count 24 children per class, 17 children as a minimum. For certain types of schools, e.g. for schools that are fully organized but have one, maximum two classes per year, we count the average of 15 children per class as the lowest possible number. At the same time, special rules are developed for small classes or special rules which take into account the specifics of funding of secondary vocational schools and educational institutions. I would like to assure you that we have worked on this change for a very long time. There is a very consistent consensus between the professional school associations and trade unions as well as the founders. And I would like to assure you that the unanimous vote of the Education Committee also shows that we have tried our best to find a path that will mean better funding for our schools, thereby ensuring better education for our children in the future. So I beg you to release this bill through second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 841/1 and 841/2. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Petr Kořenek, inform us of the discussion of the Committee's proposals and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u4	Well, thank you, Mr President. So 192th resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 31st meeting of 3 November on the Government Bill: the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports after the justification of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová, the report by Mr Petr Kořenko, and after the debate recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended, House press 841, as amended. [[18.10 hours]] The amendments are part of the resolution. This is, for a very short time, for adjustments to study abroad, for adjustments to data collection for pupils who do not have a permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic, for the rights and obligations of pedagogical staff, for the determination of the director's procedure in the event of a serious breach of the obligations laid down by this law, and for further provision of the section in the direction of vocational schools. In addition, the Education Committee commissioned the President of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and commissioned the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Petr Kořenko to present this resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, he instructed the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Petr Kořenko, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. In conclusion, I merely recall once again that this is the House Press 841/2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering six applications. The first duly applied for is Mrs Semelová. Mrs Dobešová will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u6	Good evening, dear colleagues. We see the amendment to the school law, which aims to change the financing of regional education, as necessary. The funding of schools according to the number of pupils did not work well and resulted in a number of problems which, among other things, reflected a decline in the quality of education. The current method cannot reflect the specifics in individual regions, such as the different size structure of schools, small classes, schools with only the first degree and so on, and so there are significant, and this is completely unfounded, differences. For example, in 2015, the difference between some regions in budgeted salaries in education was up to CZK 3,000, so this is reflected in the amount of wages for school teachers and non-teaching staff, where many directors are forced to finance salaries from non-interest components, as well as in the financing of other non-investment expenditures. Other negative effects of the current system include the unpredictability of the amount of resources, which must be dealt with annually by school directors. This is related to complications in the organisation and planning of the educational process. There are considerable problems in cases where there is a drop in pupils during the school year, and thus a significant drop in or a drop in money, even if it is only one pupil who goes elsewhere. In the case of secondary schools, the currently in force system of financing per capita causes school directors' efforts to adopt a maximum number of pupils. This also reduces admission rights during the course of the study. Logically, this, along with others in the past, has been negatively reflected in the quality of education itself. The amendment should correct these mistakes. It should eliminate inequalities in the remuneration of employees and the financing of schools in individual regions, and ensure that directors are predictable about what they receive for the school. Therefore, in agreement with the professional associations, as has already been said here, we support changes in the system, which takes into account not only the number of pupils who are set up for classrooms and teachers and funding according to the taught work under the framework education programmes. What we have a problem with, however, and I note that it does not concern the proposed changes, but the school law and the financing of schools as such, yes, and these are church schools. It is the financing of church schools, unlike private schools, that governs the school law, which states that church schools and educational establishments are financed directly by the Ministry of Education and have, unlike schools, private full financial support from the state. They can collect tuition fees for this, although it is true that many church schools do not use this option. In 2014, 114 of these schools and educational establishments were active in the Czech Republic. There are 140 of them this year. From the state budget, these schools received 1,360 million in 2016, which was 126.5 million more compared to 2015. For 2017, the amount of CZK 1 427 417 974 is already proposed for them, which is the amount for the performance financing under the Education Act without expenditure on development programmes. In addition to the mentioned operating subsidies and the means for increasing salaries, other special-purpose subsidies were granted to church schools in 2015, funds for teachers' assistants, for pupils with health or social disadvantages of CZK 21 855 000, for school equipment with compensation aids of CZK 730 600, to support the implementation of ethical education of CZK 530 050. And so I could go on and on and on. The position of churches in society after its temporary and partial upheaval due to social illusions after 1989 is constantly decreasing as well as the number of active and passive believers. According to estimates by the Ministry of Culture, only the Roman Catholic Church is dwindling 100,000 believers a year. Yet, not only do believers, we finance church education from our taxes, but also at a time when the churches received tens of billions of crowns under the so-called church restitutions and other huge assets that were collected by the people who created it by their work. From this gift, churches can finance their schools and educational facilities. This is also the point of my amendment, according to which ecclesiastical education is not to continue to be financed from the state budget but from its own resources. Saved funds should be spent in public schools, where, despite the budget increases that I appreciate, funding does not cover all the needs in the field of education and education, a number of things are funded by regions, municipalities and parents. There is a need to increase the amount to the salaries of educational and non-teaching staff of schools, assistants, extracurricular activities, for universities, etc. Public education should therefore be financed from the state budget in order to ensure a sufficient network, quality and accessibility. Long live the Church's education, but be on your own. I will sign up for that amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u7	Thank you, too. Mrs Nina Nováková, then Mrs Dobešová, is registered with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it may have been assumed that someone would react to the substance of this amendment. It almost looks like we've got two kids in our house - one of the kids who go to those church schools. And these aren't our kids? Aren't these people gonna work and pay taxes in this country? I think that every parent can choose the style of school to educate their child. And the above standard that church schools have - look at their success, for example, at church grammar schools during graduation exams and their success. But they also have schools where, for example, children who move on the street are educated in secondary education, teenage children who would otherwise remain on the street. So these programs are elite schools and schools that are clearly socially focused. [[18.20 hours]] And then I would like to point out that it is not at all that in church schools someone would force someone to pray or to be a religion. On the contrary, parents, if they want to put a child in a school where they are a little bit in a safe environment with less risky behavior, but of course with ethical education, often choose church schools. And it's not just in the Czech Republic, it's all over Europe. It has nothing to do with whether a person is a believer or a parent is a believer or not. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u9	Thank you, too. I'm registering two more factual points. I apologize to Mrs Dobešová, but I will ask for your patience, I will read an apology. Today, from 18:00 to the end of the meeting, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for personal reasons. Now, then, Mr Kudela. Mr Gabal will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to thank the previous speaker for a very nice recapitulation and her concern for church education. Mrs Nováková has already mentioned that church schools are really open to the whole society, it is not some selective or narrow group of people, church schools have very good results, which is probably why she is lying in someone's stomach. As far as crime and malpractice are concerned, these schools are minimal, almost excluded. As I organize tours of interesting buildings, I am also prepared to organize a tour of a school dedicated to really the most needed children, who also belong to a group of church schools, so that we can practically get to know the real focus and conditions in which church schools also work. It's not far from the other end of the Charles Bridge. So I'm gonna do another tour, but probably after New Year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Gabal now. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to thank you through Mrs Semelová for an amazing Advent proposal. Perhaps the lady should have said that church school children should be banned from high school. Especially because church secondary grammar schools have above average results. They should be banned from college. As part of the fight to strengthen Europe's Christian foundations, they need to be dealt with, don't they? [[The MP looks at the KSČM benches.]] But what is interesting is that, in essence, this method is designed by a Communist Member to introduce tuition fees into basic education. This seems remarkable to me, given that not only children from religious families go there, but also others, so they will have to pay tuition fees if the Member of Parliament adorably forbids them national contributions. That sounds really amazing to me. I wouldn't let them study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u13	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kováčik, after whom Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. I see the advent atmosphere is even starting to joke around here, otherwise I can't explain the previous performance. Please, nicely, if it were so that once a good system of uniform education, a system where taxes on all of us, at least those of us taxpayers, were used for a unified school, when those who came to Czechoslovakia to preach to us how to do it, eventually drove to teach how to do it, I would take it as a joke. But unfortunately, we can't go on smashing, crushing the system, making our children half-educated. And no one forbids anyone, no high school studies! If only that level were the way it was years ago, I mean the level of study now, the level of graduates! If only a single school, which you have cancelled here with great glory, would return at least partially, and thus the international evaluation of graduates of our schools has returned to one of the leading places in Europe and the world. That's my contribution to the seeming joke tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u15	Thank you. I note two further factual points: Mrs Semelová and Mr Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u16	Thank you. I think that we should really strengthen public education, where there is no tuition fee, where quality should be guaranteed and so on. I don't know why we're talking about community education when we have all kinds of private, multi-year grammar schools, church schools, alternative schools and so on and so on. As to what Mr Gabal said here through Mr President. I didn't say that church schools should end, that church schools should raise tuition or introduce tuition fees, but I think that if churches as a founder certainly have such great interest in education and now that they have so much money, such gifts, they will be very happy to pay these schools from their own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u17	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u18	Thank you, Mr President. When we discuss the legal aspect of Mrs Semelová's proposal, not only does she propose to introduce tuition fees into a part of primary schools, she also proposes a violation of the Constitution, which anchors entitlement to basic education from state resources for all primary school students, so that private primary schools also receive a public contribution. So the Communist Member Semelová's proposal is not only advent and anti-Christian, he is also unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u20	Mr Gabal, through the President, I know that it is an advent and that you have full ideas of Advent, but try to feel a little bit about what I am saying here. There is no way that I or the KSČM are proposing any introduction of tuition fees! On the contrary, it was we who protested against the introduction of tuition fees for your proposals in higher education, it was us under the KSČM, who made a proposal for school law to cancel tuition fees at higher vocational schools, to cancel kindergarten fees for stays in kindergartens, and you were against it! So we support public education so that everyone can actually reach them according to their abilities and capabilities, but certainly not according to their wallet. Private and ecclesiastical education is completely different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u21	Thank you. Now, Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u22	After all, whoever wanted to hear has heard. And who knows what it was and what it is, knows it. And I'd like to ask my colleagues from my club, the KSČM Club, from a club that is more expensive to me than anything else to stop reacting to anything stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u23	Thank you. Mr Sklenák shall be declared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, as I have spoken with the representatives of the various parliamentary clubs, are willing to complete the second reading of the school law today. And while I believe that, in this case, because it is a second reading and we will not vote, we would not even have to vote on the fact that we will act after 19 o'clock, so in view of the accustomedities of the Chamber of Deputies on behalf of two parliamentary clubs - social democracy and YES 2011 - I propose that we act today even after 19 o'clock so that we can finish the discussion of the press in question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u25	Thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. There was a procedural proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 24. 115 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 80, against 6. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. So we will continue to discuss this point. Mrs Dobešová is duly signed up for the debate, and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u26	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to bring this debate back to the discussion of Amendment 561 and to the substance of the matter, and that is the financing of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u27	I apologize, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u28	Thank you. I would like to say that, as the Minister has said here, my previous speaker, I think that the professional school public is very positive about these changes, and that is why I also think that the discussions conducted in committees or subcommittees have been very substantive and have led to good conclusions. From the point of view of the law, I can say that certainly the changes that the amendment brings are absolutely correct. What is currently being discussed and what really needs to be processed very precisely are the sub-legal standards that will result from these changes. During discussions in committee or subcommittees, areas such as the correct financing of driving school education in schools, which have in the framework education programmes the driver's school type T or B included in the educational process, were specified. Furthermore, I think that we should also look at the specificity of secondary agricultural schools, which in the field of non-teaching workers have a much higher burden on the number of employees than those of other types of schools, especially because many of them have a part of the school and the school economy and such school economies that can't do business in complementary activities because it doesn't allow them to have their size, so such schools can really get into certain risks of financing for caregivers, whether in cattle stables or other stables. I think that these sub-legal standards should mainly remember these types of schools in PH max. I also think that the financing of higher vocational schools, in which the daily form is currently being poured mainly into the form of combined and long-distance, needs to be carefully considered. Currently the long-distance and combined form is very poorly financed, it can be said that underfunded by its parameters, and if these schools exist independently, they have big problems if they do not have a large number of students to fund this study daily. I also think that there is a need to address the issue of increasing the minimum guaranteed wage by the state, which is currently inflexible - or does not reflect on tables or pay rates mainly for non-teaching workers, and there are a number of categories of employees, such as cleaners or cooks or auxiliary staff, or, let's say, in professional schools, Greenkeepers who get a minimum wage when they are assigned to the grade and grade under the guaranteed state. Currently, under current conditions, if the founder is financing secondary schools, these schools have certain means and ways to finance the wages of these workers. But if there is a change in funding, then we can really get into a situation where, if we get exactly pay-grade and pay-grade wages, the directors will not have the means to finance these wages unless there are changes in pay-tables or pay-rate rates. [[There's a constant noise in the hall!]] The fact that the professional public is accepting a change in funding also shows that, as I know from the committee on science, research and education, there has been almost no amendment that would radically change the system proposed by the Ministry of Education. So it is a very good signal for me that this amendment is very well prepared. Since the law is open, I also took the liberty of filing an amendment to the Education and Education Committee, which does not directly concern funding for schools, regional schools, but rather concerning improving vocational education in secondary vocational schools. This amendment essentially copies what is already happening in the field and what depends on whether the director is a visionary is the one who is trying to improve the quality of vocational education in itself. My amendment was about linking vocational schools with employers. Therefore, in this amendment in Section 57, I deal with matters such as the cooperation of the school with employers in the discussion of school education programmes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u29	I apologise, Madame, for once again entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, if you have something important you need to deal with, go to the lobby so we don't get out of the way. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u30	Thank you. I thought my voice fund was strong enough, but I'm probably gonna have to add some more. So, please, relax. In addition, I propose that employers also participate in the creation of conceptual intentions of individual schools and that schools also ensure cooperation with companies so that students work in the real environment of individuals during practice. Also, so that an expert from practice has the opportunity to participate in theoretical teaching in the training of a profession in a given field, and also that an expert from practice also participates in the profile part of the graduation exam. Further, in order to enable teaching staff to train employers, and thus to improve theoretical training, and let's say better linking the theory, the theoretical interpretation, to professional practice. On this amendment, which has been passed in committee in paragraph 4 of the resolution of this committee, I would like to add another part of this amendment, namely point 3, so that school directors can form an advisory body from employers in order to cooperate with employers, just as provided for in paragraph 2. I think that this amendment will thus achieve an effort to link secondary vocational schools closer to employers. The term employers, not social partners, is deliberately mentioned here, as it used to be in previous quotations of the school's cooperation with practice. [[18.40 hours]] Furthermore, in a detailed debate, I would like to read another amendment, which also deals with the deepening of cooperation between secondary vocational schools and employers, in the sense of concluding student contracts through my legal representatives with employers in order to receive scholarships and commitment in the future to be employed by this employer. I therefore add the amendment that was passed in the last amendment. It was Mr Fiedler's amendment, which I extend to the fact that a secondary school pupil should also enter into this contractual relationship, especially because of the absence of situations that occur between legal representatives and employers who work, which is fulfilled by the employer, with the completion of the pupil's maturity becoming invalid and pupils, although through this contract they received scholarships, and sometimes they are relatively large amounts, such as 2.5 thousand. monthly, then they do not want to live up to their obligations and basically do not extend this contract. I think on both sides, both on the school side and on the employers' side, there is an effort to deepen one another. It is an effort to prepare students for certain employers to be prepared and tailored to them. However, these efforts usually end in the absence of contracts that are established in good faith during the course of the study. I would then like to sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you all who have endured to be calm, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u31	Thank you, too. Mrs Chalánková, who is now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mrs Putnová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment under number 5293. And since I want to thank the Minister for pointing out legislative technical modifications, I'm going to have to read it all in that new form. Amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended (seminal printing 841). [[Education law]] A. Suggested amendments 1. In Article I, the following point 4 is inserted after point 3: "4. Section 32 including the title reads: "§ 32 Prohibition of political promotion, advertising and sale of unsuitable goods -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u33	Madam, I apologize for entering into your speech, but the exact quote is only read in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u34	Okay. I will leave an exact quote for a detailed debate, and I will now be able to comment on this amendment. In the amendment to the School Act, we consider the benefits or harms of changes in the financing of public schools. However, the Education Committee itself has also recommended other partial changes in the Education Act. That's why I'm taking the liberty of raising a topic that I think is important. It is also up to date and I know about it from many parents and school directors, whom I have had the opportunity to talk to. Most of you must know, and the media has reminded us several times over the past few weeks that so-called. The letter decree, which very strictly regulates the sale of food in schools, and we do not yet know the exact methodology planned by the Ministry of Health. The new rules should be respected by schools since the New Year. Unfortunately, today it turns out that the godly purpose of this detailed regulation is completely out of practice. Instead of preparing and improving the range of food in school buffets at the moment, the vast majority of schools are shutting down these sales points out of fear of punishment. I don't like it for a few reasons. First, it is very subjective to judge what children of age are or are not healthy for. And if the current wording of the decree indicates that regular fat yogurt can also be considered unhealthy, something is very wrong. Secondly, the practical effect of this measure will be to drive children into the surrounding supermarkets, bistros and shops where they buy what they consider appropriate. As a result, they will eat much healthier than if they bought a roach or a ham bagel at the school buffet. Thirdly, I do not like the selection of schools for which the decree applies and for which it does not. The high schools in the Ministry made an exception. However, this does not concern multi-annual grammar schools and other schools with afternoon operations. At the same time there is afternoon lessons, there are afternoon courses, I know about schools where music schools work. It is in these schools that well-managed buffets, which children were used to, often contributing to a good environment at school. In other words, instead of considering such sales points in schools as a bonus for both students and teachers, the State prefers to eliminate them. But there is one more reason why I do not like the new regulation. And the reason is crucial. I believe that public authority should not prescribe to parents how their children are to be fed. At the same time, I believe that the adjustment of the options for morning and afternoon meals is within the competences of the school directors. They are responsible for managing the school, they are in contact with the parents, they know well the specific conditions in the school. Otherwise, I ask why children have parents and what schools have directors for. To avoid misunderstandings - even I don't think there should be a coca-cola machine in the hallway in the first grade of primary school. However, I do not wish to attack the Ministry of Education in this context. I am aware that to issue so called. The letter order was essentially pushed by the ministry's existing text of the school law. I would like to point out that the existing provision of Section 32 of the Education Act is formulated in a very skeleton and in little clarity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 urges the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Health to determine food products that can be sold in schools, not in the context of care for the health of pupils, but in the context of a ban on advertising. And it was this absurdity that led to the issue of a discussed post-journal decree, which met not only the pupils and students, but also the school and parent directors. I would therefore like to introduce you to the amendment that addresses this situation. I discussed it with colleagues from the school committee and people from the field. I believe that a very simple change in the law can save school buffets while respecting the pursuit of healthier eating of our children, a goal with which I fully agree. The purpose of my proposal is to transfer decisions on the sale of food in particular to school councils. In these councils, parents have their representation and, as self-government bodies, schools are more eligible than the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Health to deal with such marginalities. Moreover, the change will allow the specific conditions of each school to be taken into account. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 I suggest we dock a ban on advertising or sales Of course, this is not just about food, but about for example. financial products and other commodities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, 3 gives my proposal to the school board to allow the sale and advertising to its extent. This may concern not only the sale of bread in the school buffet, but for example. and advertising on designer clothes of pupils. I assume that school councils would use their authorisation to authorize the sale of ordinary food, sanitary goods, such as paper handkerchiefs, or for example. writing supplies. At the same time, paragraph 3 contains a list of ads and sales which are prohibited at all times and cannot be authorised by the school board. For example, this is the case. cigarettes, alcohol, light drugs, should their sale be authorised, inappropriate magazines, etc. By approving this proposal, it will thus become an irrelevant and critical decree, because it will lose legal support. Ladies and gentlemen, although we have different views on many questions and we simply never agree on some questions, this proposal is neither right nor left-wing. I think it's a proposal of common sense. It is a proposal that you can support to show respect for families and trust in school directors and their self-governing authorities. It is a proposal whose support you can abolish unnecessary regulation, which does nothing better and, on the contrary, annoys the lives of many students, teachers and parents. Please read the proposal carefully and consider its support. I will read it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u35	Thank you, Madame. So now, Mrs Anna Putnová, who has been duly applied for, Mr Petr Kořenek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u36	Good evening, Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Three reasons made me perform tonight. Firstly, I would like to support Mrs Chalánková's amendment. It is indeed good that we do a revision of the so-called. They looked at the situation with common sense. Perhaps more than a list of individual activities and subjects will serve you an example that I recently experienced at the Gymnasium in King's Poli. When the director invited me for coffee and a roll, he told me that thanks to the post-it, we had to leave the school area, however it is in the school area, and we had to go through another entrance to comply with the standard. He warned me that, given the fact that sweet products are being sold there, this regulation forbids them, and he asked me to support the amendment, an amendment that would allow regular sales within the school. Since 2011, I have supported healthy nutrition in schools and children's sports. I had no idea that Minister Chládek would take the initiative with such vigor and result in a treat order. I therefore once again support Mrs Chalánková's amendment. The second reason was the education of children abroad, so called. Czech schools without borders. You may still remember that we interrupted negotiations a while ago in the first reading of the amendment to the school law, the Czech school without borders, which I initiated together with my colleagues. Today's form, as incorporated into the amendment, is based on the joint workshop of the Ministry of Education and Mr Kořenko, which, in my view, is worse than mine - quite modestly - in the fact that there is increasing bureaucracy for Czech schools without borders and does not give them the clear guarantee and predictability that they had in the case of Czech schools without borders, as I suggested. However, I respect that the representatives and representatives of Czech schools without borders, such as Mrs Lucie Boucher, have adopted this amendment or this amendment, I see it as a really very moderate progress within the limits of the law. So that's the second point. The third topic I return to is the amendment to the school law itself, or to funding. Since the summer we've been discussing each other's steps, I've had some doubts about me, and I'd like the Minister to be able to dispel those doubts. Firstly, I am not sure whether this amendment will actually contribute to increasing the quality of education. It's a simple thought that leads me to think about it. If we now have schools that are very above-standard, which provide quality education and are sought after, I fear that by optimizing those functions from the perspective of the options we have, or what will be paid for, the directors will learn to work very quickly with the optimization path and these excellent schools will become average. I would like these concerns to be scattered because the practice and life in education for 20 years shows that life usually finds its way. And that path is such a simpler method, and this one is offered directly. The second issue I would like to talk about, and I hope the Minister will comment on it, is the fact that the explanatory memorandum states that because the normative funding is abolished, so it can be expected that there will be no pressure on school directors to accept children who have absolutely no study prerequisites for being admitted to high school. This principle also seems unsustainable to me, because whether we assume that classes will be financed or individual pupils will be financed - classes and teachers hours can be increased by accepting more pupils. So this principle is not quite clear from my point of view. The third area I am interested in is the position of the regions after this school reform. We have partially clarified it on the school committee, but I think it would be worth it if the Minister of Education could comment on this. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Kořenek, who is now duly applied for. After that, Mrs Nina Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps I would just briefly add to the amendment because I have read it, Mrs Chalánková. I do not know if it is quite right for the amendment to say that the decree is abolished by law. Basically, I think the decree can be changed by a decree, but that's more like a comment. I would like to justify the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Rather, it concerns technical modifications only. In view of the fact that the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Education Act has set three different moments for the entry into force of the individual amendment points and the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports complements the amendments to this draft without specifying on which date the individual points are to take effect, the Committee's resolution is proposed to add a new point which sets out the effectiveness of the various points of the amendment. It is proposed that any amendments recommended by the Committee by its resolution, with the exception of points 6 to 9, should take effect on 1 September. These are those relating to the collection of data relating to the protected person of schools without borders and others, and points 6 to 9 are changes that are directly dependent on the change in the system of financing regional education and should therefore not take effect until 1 September 2018. So it is an amendment that regulates efficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u39	Thank you. Mrs Nina Nováková, now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of my amendment - because I do not have to comment on the whole amendment to the school law, because Mrs Putnová has said very well some observations, so the subject of my amendment, which I will sign up to in detail in the debate, is a subject that has been raised several times, and that is what culture schools in the Czech Republic are referring to. If I am to recapitulate the last time we discussed the amendment to the Education Act here, I took the liberty of proposing in the amendment that the general educational objectives should be enshrined that our schools receive serious information about all world cultures, value systems of different cultures, and on the basis of this information they are led to have due respect for other cultures. That is, of course, at the level of information. On the other hand, there is a culture to which we should apply. When I talked about it a year ago, we had so-called history. But we're living through history, ladies and gentlemen, on. And the fact that it is very necessary for our society to hold together to strengthen the systems that are currently holding it together, which is the school system, because only in primary schools and secondary schools, too, but only in primary schools, our entire population is compulsory. That means what he takes from here, what culture, what culture he belongs to, that can guide them for life. [[19.00 hours]] So I would like to add a new point to the point under which we talk about getting familiar with world cultures, and that is - at our schools, pupils get to know the level of understanding, respectively, and understand the basics of European cultural values and traditions. Specifically, I am talking about the fundamental European cultures and values of humanism, but it is also good for our pupils to know that it did not come out of nowhere, but that our culture has really had a very solid foundation for millennia and that the foundations are based on the culture of antiquity and on the elements that Jewish-Christian culture has added to culture. I certainly do not mean that we should associate our cultural identity with a particular religion. I'll try to say it again right away. Our pupils should be led to believe that, as we already know, 2700 years from the beginning of ancient philosophy, we should always rely on reason. Since the old guys tried The Greeks have built a system of democracy and tried every possible system, so we have in ourselves that the citizen is to participate in some way in what state he lives in. The Ancients also left us a very deep aesthetic dimension of our lives. It's only if we talk about Greek culture. But another part of ancient culture, Rome, has handed over to us that we should always seek justice, that we should draw up laws that are not contrary to common sense, but are not contrary to higher moral principles, and that these laws are not laws that lay down, perhaps, a religion or a religious representative. That these are laws that we are able to draw up based on reason and try to follow them. That's reasonable. And then comes the ethical area, and that's Christianity that has implemented the Jewish tenaters in itself, so even though we all make mistakes and none of us is flawless, we know that we shouldn't kill, that we shouldn't lie and so on. Somehow in us, although we can't name it, that's ten. Well, what is very important is the ability to be solidarity with the weak, solidarity with the disadvantaged, the ability to forgive, the willingness to give people who have made a mistake, even seriously, give them a second chance. And all this is a cultural legacy of Christianity. And if we apply to this and then we add that during the European history and history of Western culture there has been such a shift to focus on man and his self-development, on his freedom, that is at all stages of humanism. I don't want to do any historical training here, which is why I'm talking about humanism as a thing that's very general and has gone through different stages, but there's always the focus on individuals. We came gradually to the fact that all people are equal. We have come gradually to the fact that we have been able to define the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, but we have also been able to define three basic issues that govern society - or in the answers to these questions, we are actually different, for example, in the political spectrum. These are the answers to the questions: How do we always have to be equal? How do we always maintain our freedom? And what we're supposed to be solidarity in. It is precisely the degree and quality of the answers to these three questions that are essentially intersecting with our modern history and continuing until the 21st century. This is a culture that our pupils can really be proud of, which we can all be proud of, and this culture, I think, should be what pupils in our schools adopt and claim. Again, I don't mean at all that we should report to any particular religion, on the contrary, part of our culture is that religion is purely, but purely private, and that in no way can it enter into lawmaking and so on. This is part of my amendment. And the second part adds in Section 2, where general educational objectives are discussed, in point (c), where there is talk of understanding and applying the principles of democracy and the rule of law, it adds something that I believe is also very important. And that is that our pupils should be led to do their civic duties. They should be guided to the fact that every freedom is also bound by duty. The fact that we should start talking about some civil obligations and more awareness of what being a citizen actually means means, I did not invent this, which has been discussed in the professional public for several years, but also created, for example, a working group at the Ministry of Education. And what else did I dare say - not only to carry out civil duties, but also social roles. If I accept a social role, in which I am not listed, for example, by what nationality I am, by what races and so on, but if I accept a social role, I should treat it as a challenge, whether I am president or policeman or mother or tutor or politician. It is a challenge, and it is also a task that I should try to do my best. And trying to do my best to fulfill all my social or social roles will certainly lead me to develop my personality, too. So much for my amendments. They're basically in a place where there might be a preamble, it's Section 2. We can say, although he has a high legal force in the school bill, on the other hand, and that is very important, ladies and gentlemen, if we put this in the school bill, it does not mean that we have to change the framework education programmes, that we have to change some basic school documents. The goal is for us to realize and for educators to realize that they are not only meant to fulfill the development of the rational component, that they are not only intended to fulfill children with some knowledge, but that they are also other dimensions. And, of course, this also means that in the Czech Republic, schools that would not be willing to apply to this culture in their school education programme - I say again - are not lessened by respect for other cultures - but who would not be willing to apply for it should not then work with us. So much for my amendment. I would just like to point out that in June this amendment became an amendment, an amendment by a Member, and some of you, a total of about 56 or 58 of you, ladies and gentlemen, from six political clubs, applied to this amendment. That's why I don't think it's just a TOP 09 or mine, but it resonates in our entire society. I will then sign up for this proposal, and at the third reading, I will be begging for his support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u41	Thank you, too, Madame. A point of fact is made by Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on what my colleague said. Given that I have not found a paragraph to which I would have drawn up an amendment, I will mention it at least in a factual note. I am sorry that the amendment to the Education Act does not extend the subsidy to teaching hours and that there is no ambition for introducing congress education as a compulsory subject to schools, i.e. primary and secondary schools. I think it's very important. It's a follow-up to what was said here. I will certainly not give up this ambition because I consider it - and this follows up on what has been said here: we have rights, but we also have responsibilities. We, as the Chamber of Deputies, have a duty to prepare the young generation for risks, crisis situations, etc. I understand I've been discussing this with the Ministry of Education, if we don't have enough hours to teach it, then we need to expand that number of hours, as is common today in a number of Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u43	Thank you. Before I give another word, I'll read the apology. Today, from 19.15 to the end of the day, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises. Another point of fact is made by Mr Petr Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u44	Thank you. I'll only respond briefly to the previous speaker. I'll do it again. Please, all security topics are included in the RVP and she has been included since the 1990s. It's called protecting life in an emergency. It is cross-cutting and basically if we wanted to build it as my colleague says, don't take me at the moment, I would have to look at all the texts, but I think that there is nothing to prevent the director from possibly including more or creating an object within the available hours, which may include these topics as a separate subject. So I don't think everything needs to be regulated by law. It's basically just a question of going back to what's already in school, virtually. Find experts who will teach it well. He is generally also a problem of civic education, that he is often added to the job and is not taught by qualified people. It must also be said whether we have enough professionally competent people to teach all these topics, especially in smaller schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u45	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u46	Thanks again for the word. Just to say it. I found the result of the Czech School Inspectorate on Friday or Saturday, which examined 6,000 elementary and secondary school pupils precisely by examining how these kids were prepared for crisis situations. The result is very bad. As an MP, I don't care if you have people or hours. The situation is bad, and we're gonna have to deal with it, and we're gonna have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u47	Thank you. Now, with proper application, Mr Vilímec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u48	Mr Vice-President, I do not want to be long, but I think it is good if someone who is not part of the educational professional public also speaks about this bill, because the laws we approve cannot be - even this one - just for one segment, whether the school professional public or any other public as partial. It has been said several times that, in principle, the school professional public agrees unreservedly with the concept that is presented here, that is to say, the relatively fundamental change in regional education funding. I admit that I have met and met the opposite opinions, and I consider these opinions to be quite relevant because they are linked to a great deal of experience in the field of education and the financing of regional education. Perhaps it would be a good idea if the Minister listened and the debates with the KDU-ČSL club chairman developed elsewhere. I, at the previous meeting of this law, at first reading, expressed quite doubts and concerns, serious concerns about this law. For me, when I read the individual paragraphs, it's a sequence of pretty incomprehensible and little transparent matters. I don't want to discuss it here. With a slight recognition, I must at least say that at least some of the legislative errors have been removed, but that is in the accounts of the guarantee committee, although some will probably still have to be removed. Rather, I would like to limit myself to two comments on this bill. We're out of regional elections. The regional representation is a little different today, more varied, perhaps more colourful, perhaps even more balanced than it was in the last parliamentary term. I think it would be good if regional representation - because regional self-government or regional authorities are part of that system of regional education and are part of the system of funding education - so that they can express themselves again about the consequences of this law. I think this is absolutely appropriate, because it is evident that this system is clearly leading to a reduction in the role of regional authorities in financing regional education. I think it's obvious, and we agree on that. Whether it's meant to be or not, it's a different matter, but I think the regions should get a chance to comment on this proposal after this election. That's one point. The second point, which may not be relevant to the fundamental fundamentals of this law, but it is also important and I am concerned about it, because we are breaking something again, is a rather special amendment by the Education Committee linked to the competence of the Regional Authority in the so-called determination of the extent of the financing of investment costs for municipalities in a situation in which school districts are created. I know that perhaps this proposal was conducted by some experience from a region, some experience from a region, where perhaps in some districts municipalities cannot agree. But it is - and I would like to draw attention to this - another as if breaking down certain rights of municipalities to self-government. I cannot well imagine that - albeit a measure of a general nature - the regional authority in charge will decide how much the municipality should contribute to the investment costs in the school district. I would like to know the Minister's position. I think it's almost back on the verge of some constitutionality and that we're breaking the concept of municipalities as self-governing institutions again with this law. That's the second point. I don't want to develop these other notes here because I know it's 7:17 p.m., and I know we're all in a hurry to get home. Yet I have doubts about this law. I have my doubts because I do not know if there is any - maybe so, but I am not convinced that there is any clear communication about the role of regions such as self-government, regional authorities as, let's say, the authorities of the state administration in delegated authority, what the role of founders should be, what the role of the Ministry of Education should be, and without that I now consider this very controversial law to be very risky. That is why I would at least like to know the Minister's opinion whether she is ready to communicate with the new representation of the regions, regional authorities and, for example, regional authorities, the effects of this law, because I come from the Pilsen Region and the Pilsen Region during the last parliamentary term, as I have found, did not agree with this concept of law. That is why I think it is appropriate for the Ministry of Education to communicate with the representation of newly elected regions. Then I would also like to know the opinion of my second point, because I really consider the breach of self-governing institutions or the rights of those self-governing institutions, especially municipalities, to be very risky. It's a very sensitive matter. We're opening up a lot of laws. Once it is budgetary responsibility, in each law we seem to restrict the rights of municipalities, the rights of self-government that are guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u49	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Bohdalová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u50	One single sentence. The Ministry of Education led by the Minister last year with regional representatives, this law has been discussed with school directors and, as far as I know, seminars are already being held for new regional leadership. So I can't say that the Ministry doesn't communicate these things. That is why this law is adopted so positively in the field, because it is communicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u51	Thank you. That was a couple of eloquent constellations, but okay. I am now asking whether anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether the appellant? General, sorry. I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor at this point. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u52	I'm just very brief in terms of time. After all, I have to respond to the opposition's questions. I'll be very brief. In particular, I will respond to my colleague Vilímec by referring to OECD conclusions which, as we know, do not distinguish which central government or regional government is in power, and it is the OECD conclusions that draw attention to the risks of regional variations, understand the interdisciplinary differences in the number of pupils in the number of teachers, in the regional wage standards of pedagogical workers, the lack of national regulation of funding for non-teaching work, the possibility of conflict of interests of the regions as founders of schools - here to my colleague Vilímc - and also through his office, the distribution of funds to schools of other founders, the rigid system of national, the understanding of republics, normalities, not allowing to take into account the objective specifics of educational systems in individual regions. In its recommendations, the OECD also accentuates, considers it crucial in particular to transfer responsibility for funding primary and primary schools to the state from the point of view of basic regulation, to focus funding on school as an institution and to limit funding for educational programmes, to understand the general system, to benefit and to the detriment of special subsidy programmes. The regional authorities will retain a number of powers, continue to distribute the funds in the direction of schools. As far as the Ministry is concerned, it is in the law that rules are only described more precisely, and this must be said in the law, which will mean enough funding to evaluate teachers, teachers, non-teaching work, take account of the network of schools and prevent funds from actually flowing where the most children in demographics and the like are needed at the moment. So much for the doubt. Indeed, it is true that we communicate with regional authorities, the Association of Regions and Regions for a long time. I would like to say to the Plzeň Region that I have dealt with the differences with the previous management, and the secondary vocational education, which was at the heart of the Plzeň Region, was also dealt with positively in agreement with tripartite and appeared in changes to PH max taking into account vocational education. And as for the concern that we shouldn't invent something about cities with regard to their self-government, those are the investment contributions in the case of the rigor circuits, so here I just want to say that it's forced by the Union of Towns and Communities and by the associations of local authorities. The Union of Towns and Municipalities on the Education Committee long-term requires the Ministry of Education to actually apply this adjustment for security. On the other hand, I have long argued that it is not necessary to adjust this directly, because it is the competence of the regional authority, which would mean strict authoritarian definition of the divisional territory, has never been modified towards primary schools, and there is no reason to believe that this will happen in kindergarten schools. However, this is an amendment supported by the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and it is indeed true. I would like to say that it regulates the framework education programme, not the law. We'll keep that in mind. I will, of course, leave other matters for a detailed debate on the guarantee committee and, of course, for individual consultation of individual Members. For example, as far as the post-martial decree is concerned, I am prepared to give you a detailed report including what is going on, what we had to deal with, or how we could possibly deal with it. I do not want to shorten the debate or to be rude, but I take into account the human rights of Members and Members and the time of 19.24.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u53	Thank you. The rapporteur also announced the final word before the opening of the detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u54	Thank you. I am merely saying that eight discussions and 11 factual comments were made in the general debate, and basically all the amendments, I assume that they will be read in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u55	Thank you, too. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate in which I am registering several applications. I will therefore ask Mrs Semelová to speak, and Mrs Dobešová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u56	Good evening. I am merely formally signing up for my amendment under number 5288. I think it has already been justified enough in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u57	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Dobešová, Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u58	Good evening. I am signing up for an amendment that is included in the system under number 5313. It concerns the supplementary amendment in point 4 to the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports No 192 of 3 November 2016 where paragraph 7 is added to Section 57 of the new paragraph 3. I also apply to Amendment 5314, which deals with § 30 by supplementing the relationship, the contractual relationship between the employer and the student, where it is added that a secondary school pupil, who completed 15 years and completed compulsory school attendance, may undertake a contract in accordance with the first sentence. The contract referred to in the sentence first concluded by a minor is invalid if the legal representative of the pupil has not given consent to its conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u59	Thank you. Now, Mrs Chalánková, Mr Kořenek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u60	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for my amendment under number 5293, but in the amended version. Amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, secondary, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended. The proposed changes. 1. In Article I, a new point 4 is inserted after point 3. 4. Section 32 including the title reads: § 32 Prohibition of political promotion, advertising and sale of unsuitable goods. One. The activities of political parties and political movements and their promotion are not permitted in schools and educational establishments. Two. Advertising and sales shall be prohibited in schools and educational establishments. Three. The School Board may provide for derogations from paragraph 2. However, it shall not permit the sale of alcoholic and tobacco products or other products which threaten the health, psychological or moral development of pupils, children, children of pupils and students or which are by their very nature intended solely for adults, or advertising of such products. The heading above Section 32 is deleted. 2. In Article I, the following point 17 is inserted after point 16: 17. In Article 168 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following (i) the period shall be replaced by a comma and the following points shall be added: (j) which reads: (j) permits exemptions from the prohibition on selling advertising at school. 3. In Article III, the current text shall be referred to as point 1 and the following point 2 shall be added: 2. Decree No. 282/2016 Coll. is hereby repealed, on food requirements for which advertising is admissible and which can be offered for sale and sold in schools and educational establishments. The reasons for the amendment remain the same as those put in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u61	Thank you. Mr Kořenek will now prepare Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u62	Thank you. I am signing up for an amendment that is included in the system under number 5309. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u63	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Nováková to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sign up for an amendment that is inserted into the system under number 4833. I justified this amendment in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u65	Thank you. Now I do not see anyone enrolled in a detailed debate and ask whether this is the case if no one is reporting. I don't see an application. In that case, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask the Minister or rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. Madam Secretary, would you like to take the final word? [[No.]] In that case, I shall end the second reading of this proposal. Madam Secretary wants to take the final word. Madam Secretary, if you'd like to speak before I interrupt today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u66	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you very much for your patience for negotiating this point. It's proof that you value education. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-009-011.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending today's meeting and interrupting the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
