ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u1	222. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /German press 841/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, whom I ask to take the floor. And I ask that Mr Kořenek, who is the rapporteur of this press, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to present to you a government bill amending the law on education, which contains changes in the financing of regional education. I would like to say that with regard to changes in regional education funding, this is a matter that has long been called for by professional associations, unions, employers' unions, but also schools themselves -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u3	Madam Secretary, I am very sorry, but please all colleagues who want to discuss this outside the Chamber!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u4	Just like municipalities and regions. The draft law is presented in accordance with the Government's programming declaration and the aim of the proposed amendment is to anchor changes in the funding of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. As regards the current system of financing regional education, it suffers from numerous shortcomings. The system does not take into account the actual scope of education provided to pupils by a specific school, does not take sufficient account of the differences between fields. In the field of non-pedagogical work, it for no reason favours a school with higher fullness of classes compared to an equally organized school with a filling of classes lower and forces it to increase the number of pupils and students at the expense of increasing the quality of education. The proposed regulation aims to ensure the stabilisation of regional education funding as well as the predictability of funding and funding for school directors. The main purpose of accession to the proposed changes is to eliminate the unequal position of individual comparable beneficiaries, i.e. in terms of the funds of regions and individual regional and municipal schools. Ensure really effective spending of state budget funds, i.e. to ensure that the funds follow both the reality of the education provided and the level of pay in each school. More openness and transparency for schools and their employees. The aim is also greater predictability for school directors in terms of financial management, as I have already mentioned. Finally, these changes will also enable targeted support for the priority interests of the State in the field of education in terms of the state's strategic documents, both the 2020 Strategy and the long-term intention. The proposed solution takes into account objective differences in educational systems in individual regions, i.e. it does not focus on the only criterion at the moment, which is the number of heads educated, in quotation marks, which, for example, does not respect major demographic fluctuations in terms of funding in individual regions, particularly those suffering from lower demographic developments. It removes differences in funding for the same fields of education, inequality in the remuneration of employees and the negative effects associated with such a reduction in the number of pupils, which is insignificant from the point of view of the organisation of education, but can lead the school to serious economic problems in the current system. Here I just want to add that it is primarily secondary vocational education. After all, it also reduces economic pressure for secondary schools to receive as many pupils as possible regardless of the quality of education. First of all, there is a abandonment of funding through Republic and Regional Normatives. This means that this system, which we have been used to so far, will only be preserved for the financing of education and school services provided by school establishments. Here I would just mention that the school teams are getting into the system of normative funding, which means they are systemically included in funding, whose rules will centrally be determined by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The most fundamental change in the proposal is the change in the funding of the pedagogical work of kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools, conservatoires, and, as I mentioned, also of the school groups. In these facilities, implementing rules will set out the maximum scope of direct pedagogical activity covered by the State budget. The maximum will be expressed in terms of the state enabling training to be provided in the required quality. Here I would like to say that this is a standard, not a levelling of education, which, on the contrary, is happening now. At the same time, changes in funding will also enable schools to carry out things such as time-dividing; changes in funding particularly remember the division of hours in the case of mathematics, Czech, foreign language and informatics. In addition, the following standards will be established. Standards of entitlement components of salary, i.e. extras for management, specialization surcharges per work-time pedagogical worker. I therefore make a central statement from the Ministry of Education. Normalities of non-annual salary components per one-time pedagogical worker. Here I would just like to say that the funds will actually be allocated centrally so as to ensure that the non-interest components of the salary are also alive and can be used by the directors in real terms. Correction coefficients to non-annual wage components attributable to a one-time pedagogical worker, taking into account the average fullness of normal classes as well as the proportion of children, pupils with special educational needs. For the average fullness of normal classes, I just point out that you see that this does not mean that the new funding system does not respect the number of children in any way. That, of course, is one of the criteria. However, it is not the only one, because this system has survived completely. With regard to the proportion of children, pupils with special educational needs, I would just point out, once again, that this is a reflection of the state that has been in our schools for more than ten years, and in this way we will be able to ensure really what has not been done in the long term in order to finance the real needs of children in classrooms and schools. Once again, I would also like to stress that these are also children gifted or extremely gifted, not only disabled, as is sometimes closely mentioned. Furthermore, the Ministry will carry out preliminary checks on the basis of preliminary data received from those establishments in order to assess whether the defined entitlement does not exceed the entitlement resulting from the specified maximum amount for the establishment concerned. With regard to the overall changes, the total amount of funding will be granted to kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, conservatory centres and school associations for the salaries of pedagogical staff, including compulsory allowances. The amount of funding for other entitlement components of the salary of pedagogical staff and the amount of funding for non-reciprocal components of the salary of pedagogical staff. The Ministry will determine the funds for individual legal persons carrying out the activities of a school or a school establishment. Of course, the fact remains that although the central rules are laid down by the Ministry of Education, the financial breakdown and organisation will continue to be carried out by the regional authorities through their experts. It will also verify the accuracy of all units decisive for the breakdown. As part of the subsidy to the Regional Authority, it is proposed to set a certain reserve, which means that this reserve is expected to allow for ongoing developments within the school year through specific situations that may arise. [[reaction?]] These may be annual changes in the organisation of schools associated with the start of the new school year, because, of course, school and financial year do not meet. These may also be newly diagnosed special educational needs of children and so on. The real-time solution to this problem is only possible within a certain available budget reserve, which is available to the Regional Authority for this purpose. As far as primary art schools, higher vocational schools and so-called ONIVs are concerned, the normalizations will be centrally from MŠMT to pupil. For the comprehensive funding of primary art schools, for the financing of pedagogical work and for the financing of other non-investment expenditure of ONIV in higher professional schools and for funding of ONIV in kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools and conservatoires, the existing system of normative funding for pupils will be maintained. However, the standards will no longer be established by individual regional authorities, but will be centrally determined by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. [[15.00 hours]] In the case of art schools and a system of artistic education, I would like to say that I also consider this to be a relatively key element, because at this point, practice in individual regions is significantly different and art schools have been referred to what remains in terms of the breakdown of funds, because, naturally, the regions preferred compulsory school attendance. I believe that, in terms of professional trends in education, it is quite appropriate to link both formal and informal education and to allow maximum development of children's talents, including artistic talents. Normalities centrally from MŠMT to school, to workplace, to classroom. To finance non-teaching work, i.e. wage expenditure for non-teaching staff in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, will be replaced by a system of normative funding for pupils by a normative system of funding by combining normalities for schools, workplaces and classrooms, respectively. for secondary schools in the field of education and conservatory and higher vocational schools, it will be replaced by a combination of standardizations for the school, the workplace and the pupil, respectively. for conservatoires for a pupil in the field of education and higher vocational schools for a student in an accredited educational programme. These standards will also be centralized by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The proposed solution, as submitted by the government, respects the OECD evaluation and recommendations for the Czech Republic in the field of financing. OECD in the evaluation of so-called The weaknesses of the existing system of financing schools and school facilities in the Czech Republic have highlighted in particular the following: The rigid system of national, rational republican, normalized systems that do not allow the objective characteristics of educational systems in individual regions to be taken into account. Here I draw particular attention to the fact that, where there are fewer and fewer children in demographic development, the regions receive less and less funding, which, of course, secondarily leads to the fact that the region is not developing as it should in terms of education and education systems. It is also quite impossible to set up a system of secondary education, secondary education, e.g. to market applicability or to develop special areas within regions with certain regional characteristics. Regional variations, says OECD, understand the interdisciplinary differences in the number of pupils per teacher in regional standardizations of the wages of pedagogical workers, are blamed on us. Likewise, the lack of national regulation on the financing of non-teaching work. I would like to say that while there is agreement at the moment with professional associations on teaching work, with representatives of schools, with regions, with municipalities, trade unions and employers, in case of non-teaching work details of individual coefficients should be completed by September at the latest. I note that this is an implementing regulation and this is the first time that the Ministry of Education is submitting a draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, including all implementing regulations. Furthermore, the OECD objects to the possibility of conflicting interest of the regions as founders of schools, as well as through its office as a distributor of state budget funds to schools of other founders. In its recommendations, the OECD considers it crucial, in particular, to transfer responsibility for funding nursery and primary schools to the State, to focus funding on school as an institution and to limit funding for educational programmes. They shall respect all these requirements for changes in funding as they are presented. Finally, honourable Members, I would like to say that without changing the funding of kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools, we are not able to make any significant progress in terms of education and quality of education for our children, and we are not able to guarantee a network of kindergartens, elementary and secondary schools in an adequate quality and level for the future. Last but not least, I would like to say that changes in funding are also a prerequisite for ensuring that teachers and other non-teaching workers are evaluated and that we stop the trend that we have at the moment, namely that we are starting to deal more and more with the fact that teachers are not heading towards our schools from the point of view of teaching faculties and graduates. And if there is a shortage of teachers, a high age in the age of teachers in existing schools, and a strong demographic development that is moving into primary schools at the moment and continues logically to move to secondary schools, then if these two factors meet, we are not only able to guarantee the quality of education but education as such. Thank you in advance for the substantive debate on this government proposal, and I believe you will release it until further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I beg the rapporteur, to whom Mr Petr Kořenek was designated. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, Members of the Government, Chamber of Deputies is opening discussion of the Chamber of Press 841, the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended. Sub-law standards are also part of this press. His reasoning was given in an exhaustive manner by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, so I will limit myself to a brief summary. I would just like to add, for the sake of completeness, that this press was delivered to Members on 17 June at 11.21. Definition of the problem. The current system of normative financing of schools and school facilities from the state budget codified in the school law is based on the principle of funding through three normalities. The Republic standardizations shall be determined by the Ministry as the amount of expenditure attributable to education and education services per child, pupil or student of the relevant age category in the field of pre-school education, primary education, secondary and higher vocational education per calendar year. It goes in so-called. Courgettes. These Republic normatives serve only to transfer state budget funds from the Ministry's budget to the regional budget. The Regional Normalities shall then be calculated by the Regional Authority as the amount of expenditure per unit of power per calendar year. These regional standardizations are used to transfer state budget funds from the regional budget to the budget of individual schools and school facilities established by the region, municipalities or associations of municipalities. Specially, there are standards for private and ecclesiastical education, which are set by the Ministry and serve to grant subsidies to individual private and church schools and educational facilities. The current system of financing schools and school facilities established by the regions, municipalities and associations of municipalities, as well as regional education of local authorities, is characterised by a number of problems from the state budget, resulting in the unequal status of individual comparable beneficiaries within the Czech Republic. As a basic problem, I would refer to the unpredictability of funding, the pay gap in individual regions, especially in the field of non-interest components, and the problems, especially in vocational education, especially when pupils leave the system. I would just like to briefly summarize the shortcomings of the current system. In the normative breakdown of state budget funds in the budget of individual regions, it cannot The Ministry of Education takes into account the important characteristics of regional education in individual areas, which significantly affect the real need for funding in the region, such as: different size structure of kindergartens and primary schools, different sector structure of secondary and higher vocational education, different percentage difference from school population involved in vocational school education or different financial intensity of support measures for pupils from special educational needs and others. During the normative breakdown of state budget funds from the regional budget to the budget of individual schools and educational establishments, large differences arise in the amount of regional standardities, i.e. differences in the amount of State financial support for the education of pupils in the same field of education between regions. Moreover, the level of standardisation is not long-term predictable not only by schools as recipients of funds but also by the Ministry. The system does not take into account the actual scope of education provided to pupils by a specific school. The school, which provides a lower amount of pedagogical work than the expected normalities, is then favoured by the system and, on the contrary, the school, which would like to increase the amount of pedagogical work in the interests of quality of education, is severely limited by the system. The system does not take into account the different level of entitlement components of the salaries of teachers in specific schools, the tariff grade according to the length of practice, the specialisation surcharges and in the future, for example. claims arising from the career system of teachers. Here I would only be practical. A school with a higher age structure is significantly more disadvantaged than the one with a younger age structure. So, of course, the prudent director tries to have a balanced school choir as far as possible, but, of course, the teachers are getting older and, of course, where teachers teach long-term and have higher practice, so, of course, the school has a higher need for funding. [[15.10 hours]] In the field of financing of non-teaching work, the system will benefit, without any apparent reason, the school with higher fullness of classes compared to an equally organized school with a higher filling of classes. At the same time, the needs of non-teaching work are comparable. In the field of secondary education with a graduation exam, in many cases, the system has a negative effect on the quality and economic efficiency of school education in order to obtain pupils, and therefore on state budget funds, the quality requirements for entry into education and even pupils with very low probability of success in the education are reduced as long as possible. That's the problem with taking everything we have to report to us, especially in secondary education, so that our classes are filled. The main parameters of the proposed change in the financing of regional education for education and school associations will be transferred from the state budget to central level, i.e. to the level of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. In kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, the normative financing of non-teaching work on a pupil will be replaced by normal funding for a school, a separate workplace and a classroom, which is much more objective in terms of the real need to ensure the service activities of schools. A fundamental change in the proposed solution is the introduction of a completely different system of financing pedagogical work in kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, conservatory and school clubs. Just for your interest, today most of the tutors in the school club, often in kindergarten schools, are undergraduates. For the fields of education in these types of schools, the maximum scope of education or, on the contrary, the maximum scope of direct pedagogical activity covered by the state budget will be laid down by compulsory legislation. The school and the school community will be provided with the amount of funding for the actual number of their teachers, if the hourly expression of their part-time, i.e. direct pedagogical activities shall not exceed the specified maximum range. In doing so, the volume of funding provided will respect the real inclusion of school teachers and school associations in grades and grades and the standard level of other entitlement and non-interest components of salary. The existing system of financing regional education through Republic and regional standardisation will only be maintained for the financing of education and school services provided by school establishments, with the exception of school associations. However, there will be a change in the structure of Republic standardizations and the level of regional standardizations will be regulated by the Ministry of Education will be able to set personnel standards to ensure the operation of school facilities. The current system of funding through pupil standardization will be maintained for the financing of private and ecclesiastical schools. This morning there was still a round table on financing regional education. Present professional organisations see the prepared amendment as a very successful one, but at the same time drew attention to the need for sufficient funding. Nevertheless, I would like to put forward in a detailed debate a proposal to extend the time limit for discussing the bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., the Education Act, the Committees, to 90 days. The proposed bill constitutes a relatively fundamental intervention in the normative financing of regional education. Although the bill does not aim at all schools and educational establishments, it nevertheless touches the largest number of such facilities. The most important changes affect kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, conservatoires, higher vocational schools, primary art schools and school associations established by local authorities or associations of municipalities. Given this fact that the bill brings with it changes that will significantly affect a number of schools and educational establishments, it is necessary to pursue the bill consistently. The Rules of Procedure laid down in the 60-day time limit for the discussion of the Government's draft law in committees in this case appear to be insufficient. I propose, therefore, in accordance with § 91 (1) of the EC Treaty, that: 3 Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, discuss the bill in committees within a period of 30 longer, i.e. within a period of 90 days. I'm just pointing out that this extension of the deadline requires the consent of the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Before I open the debate, I will also apologize to Minister Zaorálek, who apologizes from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. I'm opening the debate. Before I give the floor to the duly registered party, I have an application with priority rights, and this is Chairman Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been opening the school law for the last two years, I suspect for the sixth time, which is not, of course, good in itself, because our education certainly needs stability and the constant changes that are taking place and which schools, directors, teachers, parents of pupils are not positive. With the previous amendments, and you know that from my appearance, I considered the vast majority of these proposals to be unnecessary, or directly wrong, when it's a mandatory kindergarten, a single entrance exam, and you'll remember the debates we had here. On the contrary, I consider changing the financing of regional education as something that is necessary, what should be done. However, I cannot support the proposal put forward by the Minister here, and I regard it as worse than the current situation as a result. I agree with the Minister as well as with what Mr Kořenek said here about analysing some of the problems that we currently have with financing regional education. In my opinion, one of those problems that has not been so accentated here is also an impossibility, or a lack of ability for school directors to deal with funds so that the funds do not go to them, as they say, dyed and already pre-defined, but could be treated more freely as required by schools, and maybe this has also been reflected in a greater difference in the financing of those teachers who are of good quality, etc. etc. I consider it problematic, as well as the way in which teachers' salaries are increased, especially in the tariff component, and not in the tariff component, where it allows directors to deal with it more fairly, etc. That's one of the problems. But the big structural and long-term one is about inequality in financing individual schools, regional schools, within or between regions, individual regions of the Czech Republic. I pointed out years ago that if we do not improve this system, we will not change it, so sooner or later the difference in financing the regions will have, virtually. schools in individual regions, the impact on the quality of education and these differences, which are in the quality of education between regions, will increase even more. Even now we are not well, because when you look at international comparisons, the difference in knowledge between regions reaches up to 1.5 years of schooling, which are numbers that cannot leave us indifferent. And this is not due to funding, but this financing can help create differences over the long term. To make you understand what I'm talking about, even those who don't deal with the details of funding education, I'll give you two specific examples. If someone is going to study electrical engineering in the South Bohemia or Ústí Region, then the relevant school, secondary school, will receive CZK 37,000 per year, while studying the same field in the same large class in the same school in the Central Bohemia Region or the Karlovy Vary Region, the secondary school will get CZK 41,000 or 42,000 on it. If we were to recalculate it, we would calculate it on the whole of the school, so the school in the first case gets CZK 5.9 million, while the other one gets CZK 6.5 million a year. And you will imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the difference is quite large. And those numbers are completely real. [[15.20 hours]] Let me give you one more example. When your child studies at a four-year high school in Prague or in the Liberec Region, the school receives an average of 34,000, which means 6.8 million a year if the school consisted of four years, two classes and 25 children, while for the same four-year high school in the same large class in the Zlínský Region or Olomouc Region, the school will receive CZK 38,000 for the child, which will total CZK 7.6 million. And these are the big differences, and that is the current situation, and that is the result of what Mr Kořenek represented here, how national normatives will be transformed through regional normatives, and that ultimately leads to this inequality. This needs to be changed. But I always thought that the change was meant to be fair, nationwide, clear, simple, of course, to correct some coefficients for specific situations, such as a small elementary school in a small village, where, of course, it is necessary to ensure that the school exists, and there will not be enough purely by the standard. But basically the normative principle is quite simple. To put it as clearly as possible, you can imagine two basic models in the financing of education. One model will cost, that means you have some number of schools, there are some number of teachers, directors, janitors in those schools, and I don't know what to do next, it all adds up to how much money they pay, it's multiplied by 12, you have annual costs, and so you can calculate the heating costs and all the others, and you get some amount of costs that are needed for the whole republic. We've had a system like this here. It worked under communists, luckily it's gone. But in order for it to work even then, it required something that we don't have today, and luckily we don't have it, and that is an extremely strong central authority, which simply determines hard what to buy, how many teachers there will be, how many people there will be, how many people it will look, and how much it will be controlled from the center, and then how much costs can be reimbursed in this way. On the other hand, the normative approach that we have here, in principle, is based on the logic that we have some number of pupils and students here, maybe now about 2 million, on which we spend 100 billion a year, it's really about 90 billion. If we simplify it, 50,000 per pupil. The amount as a standard will be divided into the benefit of a specific school, for each pupil there is a sum. It's understandable, it's simple, it's fair, it's clear. What the Ministry of Education is currently proposing lacks these attributes. It's neither clear nor understandable, and it's not easy at all, and as a result it won't be fair. It's not a step in a better direction. Plus, it's stepping out of the logic of normative financing in half or in three quarters, which I can't even estimate from these materials right now, to cost financing. And perhaps what is very problematic about it is that it is a combination of a cost model with a normative model. There's a kind of cat dog coming into existence here, which I think is going to work very badly in practice, certainly not better than the system, though imperfect, which we now have. Again, I expected the Ministry to follow the path of strengthening its central role in the camping of normalists, to correct the inequality that exists in funding for one pupil across the Czech Republic, but not to create a system where costs will somehow be fixed, they will somehow correct the maximum number of lessons learned, and all together it will create a kind of financing that will be extremely administratively demanding, inconspicuous and in which no one knows anything at all. For all these reasons, I would like to say not only that this proposal will not be supported by the Civil Democratic Party, but also on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, I propose that we reject the proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u9	Thank you and please the first duly signed up, Mr Tomio Okamura, and Mrs Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will try to sum up briefly what actually brings to us the proposal for a change in the school law presented by this government, namely its Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. We are to approve a fundamental change in the financing of regional education. What does this change bring about? Above all, it must be said that it does not entail any increase in funding for schools or an increase in the salaries of teachers. On the contrary, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD promotes an increase in teacher salaries and an increase in funding for schools, the exact opposite of Sobotkův's government. The government proposal brings an increase, but something completely different - it brings an increase in administration for schools that will send new statements to the Ministry. According to these statements, the Ministry will monitor, establish and distribute funds. The Ministry takes this responsibility to the regional authorities. In the materials attached to the bill, the government by mouth of the Ministry of Education assures us that it will need only three additional jobs for workers who will do this agenda for schools. In the view of the Ministry, three workers will address the financing of several thousand schools of regional education. I'm sure the question is whether they can handle it. The Ministry tells us that their work will support a new information system, and how the Ministry is clear about this software shows an estimate of the purchase price. The price is estimated at 2.5 to 5 billion. Crowns. That's a pretty big spread in such a crucial thing. If a tax-paying citizen expects us to save office space at county offices to replace those three administrative supermen at the Ministry, he's wrong. In the report, the Ministry tells us that workers at regional offices will be dealing with new tasks. They are said to solve collisions and problems arising from the new financing system using so-called reserves. Of course there will be problems. If you don't put more money into the system, if you add money somewhere else, money will be missing. However, the regions from the reserve should also pay more costs for inclusive education. In practice, therefore, there will be no reserve. The last pearl of the entire government proposal is the fact that the new system of funding is not related to so-called. private schools and church schools. Apparently, the Ministry does not want to irritate these schools' lobby when pushing through this reform of funding. So how do you evaluate the Ministry of Education's proposals for financing reform? I think we can briefly recapitulate. It's about raising school administration. This is a vague idea of managing and securing the whole process with a significant risk to a number of schools. The Ministry leaves responsibility for dealing with these risks at regional offices and does not give them a real opportunity to address these risks. Some shortcomings in the normative system are addressed in hasty reform, which is primarily intended to centralise power in financing regional education at the Ministry. However, I consider it most important that the proposal does not mean an extra crown for teachers or schools. [[15.30 hours]] Such a proposal will not support our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD. Our movement considers it a fundamental problem of Czech education to be underfunded. The state, namely Sobotkův and Babišův's government, refuses to add money to education. Our teachers' salaries are shameful. Even during the Nazi Protectorate, the social status of the teacher was not as low as it is today. I have a proposition. How about leaving the current normative system, limiting the differences between regions in the form of regional standardizations and five billion planned for new software to give rise to teacher wages and solving the situation of schools in demographically adverse locations? A simple solution, if the whole reform is not precisely and only the implementation of the software business. In the programme of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD we are counting on steps that must stop the devastation of our education. It is then necessary to get teachers to 130 percent of the average wage and increase the resources allocated to education to 6 percent of GDP. Where to get the money? From the Czech Republic, more than CZK 200 billion flows abroad every year, which is about 5% of GDP. It's a European rarity. Let us look further at how much the Ministry of Education projects cost, such as the so-called. New graduation. It's a parade of wasting citizens' money. We must make effective use of the means and solutions to strengthen the position of the teacher. They must teach motivated teachers who have conditions for their work. We in the SPD want to put an end to administrative bullying. It is necessary to strengthen the legal status of teachers in dealing with insults, violence and truancy. Without discipline, the school cannot work. Positive discrimination against inadaptable pupils and their parents must end. It is necessary to return clear curriculum to schools with standards of performance of pupils and with a significant space for the school's own profiling. Without this it is not possible to stop the decline of the quality of teaching. Essential steps are required in the field of vocational training, where the link to operational practice must be restored. The conditions for the work of schools of different founders, their rights and obligations need to be balanced. Neither the Ministry of Education nor Sobotkův's government are able to solve the basic problems of education. The government is fully interested in the fight for police control and the Ministry of Education, under the leadership of Minister Valachová, has surpassed all records of incompetence and incompetence. They spew on hasty and unprepared reforms that destabilize schools. An example is the unprepared concept of inclusive education. The question arises whether it is dilettantism or is a reduction in the level of Czech education part of the global order, which is programmed to build the ČSSD. When I speak to teachers and school directors, they openly say that they do not remember such a terrible situation that exists under the current government. Confusion, unnecessary paperwork, crazy administration of EU subsidies, a decline in the quality of teaching, spying and bullying of Mrs Šabatová's Ombudsman's office, which was elected by members of the ČSSD and the ANO movement. Do you know what teachers and school directors want? They wish the Ministry of Education to do nothing, as constant changes only worsen the situation. Such is today the confidence of the pedagogical public in the ministry's work. Teachers are fed up with constant reforms that have brought nothing to them and hinder their work. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD goes to regional elections with a clear aim of restoring the quality of regional education. We can no longer afford his further destruction. I want to assure the school staff with our support. We will return the traditional quality of Czech education - I repeat the word of Czech education - without the multicultural ideology and nonsensical reforms initiated by the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u11	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, everyone. I'm recording three factual points. First to the microphone of Mr. Kořenko, please. Mr Rais and Mrs Bohdalová will be ready after him. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u12	Thank you. I'm just now - because information about the round table seems to fit in, so specifically, experts from practice who move in schools today and daily. CZESCHA: The correct Hmax setting. [[PHmax?]] Excellent work done. Just a question mark on how much specific money comes in. Finally, what we teach will be paid. That's how it was supposed to be from the beginning. The Union of Towns and Municipalities: Huge progress, a new financing system along with demands for money. Industry and transport: Tripartite welcomes the change in funding. It requires two necessary steps and clear parameters to be discussed, i.e. an agreement on the medium-term outlook for the budget. The Czech Moravian Trade Union: It identifies that the reform is well prepared. Association of elementary school directors: MŠMT discussed with us. We found each other in it. It's better for us. The directors will not be looking for money on the edge, but to pursue the activities of the school. And plus other comments. Association of Apprentice Equipment: We support, maybe problems with more fields. Associations of local authorities: They warn that many municipalities pay back. They give 20 percent in the final and in the municipalities. I wish the state gave so much. Regional Association: This proposal is the most sophisticated of all three. There were former ministers there, and I'm not going to name them here. It's not my job. The roles of regions and competences are adequate. Representative of the Association of Elementary Art Schools: Since 2004, normative funding has been contested, since 2012 it has not allowed the normalization to teach all compulsory subjects. They support reform and are invited to cooperate. It's just the voices from the round table. Do you think these experts don't know what they're talking about? Well, I don't think so, because that would say that we have incompetent people in schools. And I think we have very competent people in those places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u13	Thank you. Now, please refer to the microphone with Mr Rais's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u14	Have a good afternoon. Of course, education is undersized financially and staffingly. But I'd like to go back to what my colleague Fiala here said because he inspired me to do one comparison, and that's how he put that plus minus 40,000 as normal for a high school kid. It would probably be good to know that the standard for a university student is around 20,000 in the long run. So this difference has been here for at least five, six years and is regularly advertised. I think it should be said here in the context that the Minister is not only a minister of kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools, but also universities, and that she simply has to optimize the financial flows that are unfortunately limited. But the situation in universities must also be considered. It's nothing against high school. That it's underfunded, of course, that's true. Before it is a huge optimization problem, how to satisfy everyone with a minimum of finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u15	Thank you. Now please take a factual note of Mrs Bohdalová's microphone. Mr Petr Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u16	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Colleagues, I came here ten years ago and held on to one slogan: Sevce, stick to your hooves. I'm an old tutor, and I'll always be here talking a little bit about education. And when colleagues come here with some other - agriculture or complex economic policies, I can perform here, but the article or the performance will probably have to be written by someone who really understands it. And we've seen the performance here - except that the performance that was here by colleague Okamura has been written by someone who doesn't understand it at all. Friends, do you know why we are going to reform regional education funding? Because first, we have to have reform, how we're going to finance schools, and that's how we're going to raise teachers' salaries. This, too, is mentioned in this law, how they will receive a supernumeral clock. There is also talk of over-the-counter rewards, etc. All you have to do is read it. My colleague Kořenek here took the note from the round table, because I attended many meetings on the edges where 250, 200 directors were involved, who said: Yes, but for God's sakes, let this be the case. So I am willing to discuss it with my colleague, Fiala, because I know that we have been discussing it since he was a minister, on this very subject about the reform of regional education funding. I know we don't agree, but I know I'm going to discuss it with a guy who knows what he's talking about. But there are people I'm not going to discuss it with because I can't. And I don't think we have any teachers in our schools who say we better not do anything. On the contrary, they want us to bring this thing to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u17	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Petr Fiala's factual opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u18	I respond to the performance of the previous speakers, but I can't forgive myself for one comment. Education is the priority of this government. The budget chapter received by the Ministry of Education is one of the biggest, most of which goes to regional education, whose funding we are discussing here. Take a look at the interest of our fellow Minister Valachová of the Government on this issue. Zero. I think it's undignified, and I needed it to be heard. I want to respond to what Mr. Rais said very well here. There the problem of money going to a university student is not only in the amount, but the bigger problem is that it is changing year on year and it is never really clear how much it will eventually be, which is due to the structure of the college budget within the overall budget of the Ministry of Education. That's why I've been trying to make sure that the funding that goes to universities is fixed at a percentage of the total budget that the Ministry has, so that it doesn't happen that if there isn't enough money in the entire education department, then it has to go to the standardizations, to that and to that, and ultimately, it doesn't have to be left for the universities. I think that was an important point. It is necessary to think about the fact that, in the end, one part of the education must not be financed at the expense of another because it only causes more and more problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u19	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Now please contact the microphone duly logged in to Mrs Semelová. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about the need to change the financing of regional education for x years. The current system has a number of shortcomings, and in the end, it has already been discussed here today, which are negatively reflected in the quality of education. The pursuit of the pupil, the pursuit of maximum fulfillment of the classes, all of this leads mainly to the fact that everyone is accepted into the graduation fields regardless of his knowledge, study assumptions and interest in the field. Of course, the decline in applicants' rights is also evident during the course of the study and also during the final output. The overall decline in the level - and I stress that it is not only secondary education, but also primary schools - is subsequently reflected in universities, from which weeping sounds to the level of students accepted. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not possible to blame teachers for this condition, at any level. They were, and are, precisely, cantors and teachers who, despite problems, increase administration and complications that have been put on them, take their profession as a heart thing and give their pupils, students and apprentices maximum. This should be added to the financial evaluation of school teachers and non-teaching staff mentioned above. Teachers with higher education are, in terms of their salaries, at the end of the European Union's ranking and within the Czech Republic, only 50 per cent of the wages of other university-educated employees. Not to mention non-teaching workers. They often pay a minimum wage. The current funding system also causes significant differences in funding to schools within individual regions, and this has been the case here today, which approach each school considerably differently. These are comparable schools, whether they are type, degree, size, fullness of classes, composition of pedagogical choir and so on. Both directors and teachers complain, whose salaries differ by thousands of crowns per month in the sum of claim and non-claim components. We therefore support the proposal for a change in funding so that the financing of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools is at the same level throughout the Czech Republic, or it is the same that binding rules and criteria are centrally set. The combined funding system, in which not only the number of pupils is taken into account, but is also set to the teacher's class and to finance according to the taught work, according to the framework education programmes. The need to change the existing system of financing regional education is therefore clear and confirmed by the professional public. At today's round table, mentioned here by Mr Kořenek, representatives of associations such as CZESCHA, association of school directors, association of educational establishments, basic art schools, association of tutors, foundation Depositum Bonum and representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, Association of Industry and Transport, School unions, Association of Local Authorities and Regional Representatives met. They all agreed that a change was needed, and they support the proposal. They appreciated the Ministry's efforts to discuss the problem and the opportunity to participate from the outset in the upcoming reform. At the same time, however, they did not conceal certain reservations which are further discussed and which should be settled during the legislative process. In particular, it concerns, for example, the salaries already mentioned by school non-teaching staff, the financing of school clubs, which according to the proposal is different from the financing of school groups, the solution to school stabilities and the proportion of municipalities where the primary school is not, not only for the financing of operations, but also investments, the issue of placing two-year-old children in kindergarten schools, the financing and organisation of a number of disciplines and multidisciplinary classes, etc. I agree with most of these comments and therefore support the extension of the deadline between first and second reading, so as to create sufficient room for discussion and fine-tuning of the necessary adjustments. On what all representatives of associations and associations agree, this is a question of the total amount of funding for education. The criticism of underfinancing is quite appropriate here. We are far from achieving the percentage of gross domestic product published in the education chapter of the developed country. While the average share of the school budget in the countries of the European Union in GDP is about 6.1 %, in our country it is just over 3 percent. If there is no significant increase in money from the state budget, no reform will be possible and the government's declared priority education will remain only on paper. It is imperative to adjust the medium-term financing plan for education adopted by the previous governments, which would make the situation even worse in its present form. In our view, the State must be responsible for education, that is to say, its financing. We therefore consider the proposal to strengthen the competence of the Ministry of Education on this issue to be justified and absolutely correct. As we could also see at the already mentioned discussion at the round table, this proposal was also agreed by representatives of the regions and other entities. This is also related to setting the funding parameters under the framework education programme so that all that must be taught is actually paid and that the classes in different teaching subjects are also allowed to be divided. However, I will not forget here that I am concerned that this division will be spatially and organisationally feasible in some of the larger schools, given the overall fullness and increasing the number of classes to the extent that professional offices and other rooms serve as tribal classes. But otherwise, of course, we support the division of classes. I have a personal reservation that the change in funding should only affect public education and private and church schools should remain outside. Members from the right-wing parties certainly have a similar reservation, but of course from the opposite point of view and the idea of a solution. In my opinion, both private and church schools should be financed from their own money and not from the state budget, except for certain exceptions. It is clear to me, however, that we may disagree here, not only with the right-wing opposition, but also with the parties forming the current government coalition. [[15.50 hours]] Finally, I will return to my education salaries once more. We all know that a key element in the education process is a teacher, a tutor, a master of vocational education, just a person. We can invent anything, but if we don't pay the cantors properly, we will continue to discuss why university graduates preparing teachers don't get into schools to a large extent, we will continue to deal with the problem of lack of first-degree teachers, math teachers, physics, chemistry, IT, that masters of vocational training retire and no newcomers enter their posts. The consequences will then be borne not only by the pupils and their teachers, but by all of us. This should be recognised not only by the Ministry of Education, but above all by the Minister of Finance, respectively, when discussing the state budget. The whole government. Otherwise, on behalf of the KSČM club, I can say that we agree that the proposed amendment should proceed to second reading, including the proposal to extend the negotiation period between first and second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u21	I thank the lady. Now, I beg you, Mrs Nováková, for what it's worth. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose it was expected that we, TOP 09, would not agree that private schools and church schools should somehow finance themselves. If the school provides quality service, it means it educates our children, so when the graduates are finished, it will not be clear - after all it is our citizen who will work here, so it will not be clear, or maybe it will be clear in a positive sense whether it is from private school or from church school. What I see as an opportunity in this school law is not about financing, or not consistently financing private and church schools, but these schools have one very good thing in funding, and that is that they are free to load and shift funds to personnel costs and other non-investment expenditures within the framework of non-investment money. And that is what I believe is very much lacking in our schools, so-called. State. Otherwise, the opinion of the TOP 09 will then be delivered by Mrs Putnová. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u23	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Karamazov's microphone, Mrs Putnová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u24	Dear colleagues, with all sorts of amendments to school regulations, the sack literally broke during this parliamentary term. Both former Minister Chládek and current Minister cannot be denied that they have the will to change our education system. However, it is not only the call for change that is important, but also their form and mainly their content. The core of the proposal is the change in funding for primary and secondary schools. A pretty simple system of financial contributions to a pupil, even if it has its flaws to deal with, should replace the system more complex, which will take into account countless other data, such as the number of lessons taught, the qualifications of teachers and others and others. It is in complexity that I see the first pitfalls. Of course, it is a bit paradoxical that many of us do not understand the legislative process of the amendment, when it is the House that has to agree with it, but it is not a completely unsolvable problem. Much worse, even school directors often do not understand the proposal. I would like to quote a brief passage of one of the many messages that have been delivered to me in this context. "Perhaps Members will understand this better, but I don't know how to do it as Director, and I won't be able to count the budget at all." So many quotes. Do we really want, ladies and gentlemen, to make rules that will not be understood by those to whom these rules are to apply? Of course, not everyone has a legal education and is able to absorb the legislative text perfectly. In such a case, however, it is the duty of the Ministry to present the material to the school directors accordingly. This was not the case this time, however, when most directors confirmed that they had no closer news of the novel. That's unacceptable to me. If the Ministry wants to change the way education is financed, this cannot be done without discussion with those who create education. Who better to know the pros and cons of the current system than the directors themselves? I don't want to get in the same situation again as with inclusion. No one consulted the school principals, and the Minister nevertheless pushed it in a rather strong way. In the following years, we will all see how large declines in Czech education will cause inclusion, and we will most likely be convinced that it did not benefit even those that were originally to be protected. Another pitfall of the amendment is that Minister Valachová is going to measure the pupils and students with different subways. Anyone who goes to school deserves a level playing field. Why, then, should less money be allocated to one pupil than to another? The new system will be extremely unfair. Instead of teaching teachers and directors realizing their visions, further paperwork will be added. Only experienced bureaucrats who like to fill different tables will benefit from new complications. This is certainly not the way in which Czech education should be issued. The proposed measure brings us back to the central management system before 1989. Now, however, the Minister must do without a strong central authority. Therefore, after an ill-considered inclusion, there is a risk of further disruption of Czech education, this time because of funding. Ladies and gentlemen, serious interventions in the system of funding for primary and secondary schools cannot be done rashly and without proper expert discussions with school directors. I therefore support the idea of keeping the novel out of second reading. Wanting to discuss such a crucial document at the last minute before the House holidays does not seem right to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please get to Mrs. Putnová's microphone, Mrs. Dobešová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u26	Good afternoon, Madam President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a few general remarks on regional education funding and to conclude with one urgent request, which may be feasible without legislative changes. The Minister has presented a new concept of financing regional education. It's a perfectly legitimate attempt. I must say that TOP 09 will support proposals that will bring higher resources into regional education funding. This is where I see the first pitfalls. We are talking about what financing should look like, but we do not know the framework, the financial framework in which these changes would be realized, so for us it is still to some extent virtual reality. We will be happy if we are able to deal specifically with individual steps in the context of the change and if we know the financial budget, the framework in which we will move. So that's one basic point. And now a little bit of looking back, virtually. a comment on the current state of affairs. When the regions came into being in 2000, there was no way to offer them the contents. So education and roads of second and third classes were offered. No one at that time assumed that there would be major conflicts of competence between the Ministry of Education and individual regions. The method of financing, as it is today, and we have a number of reservations about it, and we know that it needs changes, is in a way very fair, transparent and unambiguous. He clearly puts on every pupil in a certain age category a standard which the Ministry of Education forwards. How is it possible that the differences in funding in individual regions are so dramatic? How can it be that in 16 years - it is nothing against the Minister now - in 16 years the Ministry of Education has not been able to clarify its competence so that the normality guaranteed by the Ministry of Education actually reaches the pupil? How is it possible that individual regions finance an oversized network of secondary education from the primary school budget? Why in some regions did secondary education optimize, in others they didn't even try, in others they are groveling? Because we lack a unified school policy. Single school policy, which will guarantee that the resources defined by the Ministry of Education are actually travelling to the pupil. [[16.00 hours]] If we want a change, we can talk about new parameters. Of course, the corrections that would have to be made in normative financing, after years of use today, it is actually very difficult to change. It may be easier to actually prepare a new method of financing than to change the runaway one. But we also have to figure out what that means for the regions. The regions will not be at this time - or in a situation where the form proposed by the Minister is adopted, they will no longer be responsible for school policy. They'll be in charge of the records, the checks, the teams. School policy will no longer be a regional issue. That is what we need to be clear about, too. Another question is the quality that results from the quality of teachers. In this context, I think we should talk again about how teachers and teachers will be funded. We have repeatedly offered and repeatedly asked that the economic intensity coefficients be set for these classes so that they do not have to make extra money by accepting a number of students who do not intend to go to pedagogy at all. So these are topics that are undoubtedly linked to funding. I would like to offer one option that would facilitate the work of schools in a shorter period than the expected effectiveness of this amendment. It is the unification of wage and non-investment expenditure so that schools have the opportunity to dispose of these funds. It would greatly reduce the stress of drawing up their budget. A few years ago, it was created in universities, it worked out, it wasn't abused by anyone. And that budget gives more options and more freedom to make decisions. This would be the particular small proposal that I wanted to contribute to the greater comfort of the directors and the management of schools in the course of the next school year. TOP 09 will not prevent this amendment from being released for second reading. However, we note that a lot of questions remain open and, of course, we will be asking for explanations, comments and also sub-legal standards over time to second reading, which would specify and define the form proposed at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Dobeš, and please, to the microphone of Mrs. Dobešová. Mr. Vilímec will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u28	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to contribute with my opinion to the amendment, which opens the 561 Act on regional education again. A lot of information has already been dropped here. There is talk of different funding within individual regions, although we expect exactly the same quality approaches and quality outputs from schools. We all know that, and we, as directors, have long been calling for reform of regional education funding. What has not yet been said here is that this reform concerns only the salaries of teachers and non-teaching workers and does not concern the overall funding of schools. Since the operational resources of schools are financed by their founders at the founders of municipalities and regions, and of course from the state budget - I said of course, for me it is not so obvious, but it is true - from the state budget the operation is financed by private and church schools. But this question is not addressed by this reform. Only the salary conditions of teachers and non-teaching workers are addressed here. In 2000, secondary schools under the regional authorities began to open scissors between individual schools within individual regions. And indeed, although we expect the same quality in the north of our Republic as in the south, we still accepted that these schools were paid differently. The school of the 21st century also needs professions other than teachers, janitors and directors. And this was very much forgotten in funding. No school has had a chance to get a salary for a school psychologist, although this profession has been quite legitimately mentioned in the Regional Education Act since 2005 and, of course, it belongs legally to schools today. No director gets funding for a special educator. There are no fields on the network manager. And that's all the directors have to do with their resources. Those who want to have a really good school and understand that the school is a completely different environment from that of the 19th century simply try to get to school, but at the expense of financing teachers' salaries. And that, of course, isn't right. I very much appreciate the change in the parameters of the salaries of teachers and non-teaching workers and this is not just about the number of pupils. Of course, every director behaves the way he behaves. He needs to survive, he needs to finance the school, and he needs to have a wage for his teachers. Therefore, in secondary schools, but let's say that even in primary schools, it is done to make as many pupils as possible. But that's not the point. The aim is that there should be as good a lesson as possible and that we did not have to worry about whether we had enough pupils to fund the teaching. I very much appreciate the fact that the Ministry has proceeded to finance employees' salaries, exactly according to wage inventories. We always did wage inventory at the beginning of the year, but it was useless to us because we received a limited number, a binding indicator of the number of workers, an average wage for these workers. Of course, those who had older congregations also had greater problems. However, I am aware of the pitfalls of this reform, at a time when it will be financed by pay grades and pay grades of non-teaching workers, where unfortunately we often receive up to 2 000 in the tariff and degree under the state guaranteed minimum wage, with the increase of the state guaranteed minimum wage. And that's what the director has to fund, he has to have these resources. But if the Ministry finances only the pay grade and the pay rate, there won't be any pillow that the principal can lean on. I believe and look forward to discussing both in committees and, above all, in subcommittees. Today I took part in the round table, and I was very pleased with the public's approach to this reform, which acknowledged that it did not come to reform until the moment it was finished, when it was written, but had a chance to participate in this reform. This is a good start to a discussion that must result in a good change in funding. I realise that without increasing the funding that will come to education, this reform will not achieve the desired goal. The aim was to improve the quality of education and to contribute to this through a change in the funding of education. I hope that all these pitfalls will be eliminated at the time of the debate, but as we succeed, this will only be shown when the reform comes into effect and goes through practice. Because only practice will show us whether the theoretical assumptions we have made and decided are correct. So, like I said, I'm looking forward to the debate. I believe that this reform will contribute to improving education, and that is what we all who are in practice want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u29	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Vilímec's microphone. Mr. Kořenek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u30	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a slightly different role to play here, perhaps not one who is an active teacher, unless I count about ten years of teaching externally at a primary art school, but who has been active in municipal and regional policy for 26 years, rather from the point of view of those who play a founding role in regional education, namely public regional education. I'm gonna follow up on Mrs Putnová, and I think maybe it's not a bad trip to the past. Over the 26 years, I have experienced various systems of basic, secondary and, of course, various ways of financing. Starting in 1990, the funding of teachers' wages through district and regional national committees, then the functioning of the education authorities, the gradual acquisition of legal personality first at secondary schools, later at primary schools. I also remember a special condition where, for example, primary school workers were employees of the school authorities, but schools which did not have legal personality at the time were, from the point of view of the founder, some backed-up organisation in their budgets. Mrs Putnová mentioned the year 2000, when the regions arose and the educational authorities ceased to exist. The founding powers, but also the responsibility, and this must be borne in mind, for the breakdown of funds to so-called direct costs in education has gone significantly to the edge. At first even, I remember this as a councillor of the region, they could have interfered in this way of calculating the funds of the region in their own capacity. It was even seriously considered, and I think that it should also not be forgotten, at that time, it was some time in 2004, that funds for direct costs in education, at least at the level of secondary regional education, would be transferred to the budgetary determination of the tax revenues of the regions. I was not a Member at the time, but I watched it as a regional councilman, and I know that then the transfer, and it must also be mentioned, supported and proposed by the Ministry of Finance, coincidentally at the time when Bohuslav Sobotka was the Minister of Finance of the then government. In the end, in the House, if I remember correctly, it didn't go through the difference of just two votes. Otherwise, in 2005, direct costs in education linked to the financing of regional education would be transferred to the budgetary determination of regional taxes. The former Minister Buzková, if I remember correctly, argued against the transfer of money to the budgetary determination of regional taxes by the fact that the regions have only recently emerged and must gradually assume new competences, and when the situation on the regions settles, then it is possible to consider the transfer of money directly to the budgetary determination of regional taxes. This is merely a quote from the former Minister of Education Petra Buzková. However, as we know, the situation was going in a completely different direction. The regions were excluded from the breakdown of direct costs. Although these funds, and this is an anomaly, when I speak as quite knowledgeable budgetary rules of territorial budgets, even if these funds are part of the budgets of the region, their schedule is only made known to representatives, not approved by a kind of regional council. I don't want to discuss this anymore. But, of course, I respond to Mrs Putnová's comment, where, of course, at the moment that competence came to an end, there were obviously some differences that may be unjustified, wrong, I do not want to comment entirely. And we can really look at regional education funding from a different perspective. Under this government, I have to say left-wing governments, fashion comes back to state to manage everything, to issue binding regulations, sometimes especially complicated regulations, in which no one really knows anymore. I don't want to talk about other areas, I'll just stay with education. Mr Kořenek here spoke of some outputs of today's conference or round table. I wasn't present there. He spoke of the fact that the Union of Towns and Communities welcomed this as a huge step. So I was listening to the statement from the deputy who was on that round table, she had some reservations, even though she didn't reject it completely. I don't know what's going on with regional representatives. To follow up with the President of the Fiala. Yes, if you look at the explanatory report as well, or an assessment of the effects of regulation on this House of Press, for example, the graph of the specific level of regional standardizations of wage money, which caught my attention, shows, of course, huge inter-regional differences in the field of engineering education in 2014-2015. It attracted me because I come from the Pilsen Region, and in the Pilsen Region, where there is therefore a great tradition of engineering and still a great demand for experts in this field, the regional standardism is significantly higher. I don't want to discuss whether it's right or wrong. I don't think it's ideal when the differences are as high as the graph. This proposal, submitted by the Ministry of Education or by the Government, is based on the idea that the Ministry of Education should determine wage conditions within the framework of a number of different standards which it will issue. I don't want to discuss how much the central idea is right, but it's such a marked onset of strange centralization, and unfortunately, as I've been reading it, even a higher bureaucracy. When the explanatory memorandum mentions it, and the Minister also mentioned that the financing system should be predictable, it should be transparent, I do not like to use that word, so I really do not see it in this proposal. In addition to the basic ideas that I also mentioned, I also object to the fact, and I mean it now that it is not properly handled. That's what Mr. Karamazov was talking about. I had a hard time reading it on Sunday. Really, I didn't even watch the Wimbledon finals. [[With a smile.]] And I find that there are a number of legislative errors in this proposal, which amazes me, especially when it comes to government proposals. So I don't talk in general. I am very interested in the fact that the explanatory memorandum is - of course, the Minister is talking about the need for a legislative anchoring of the so-called reserve, which would compensate for the emerging differences between Ukraine and the like. The Act also assumes in that version that the Ministry publishes criteria for the reserve breakdown in the Bulletin. Unfortunately, it is not clear from the text which paragraph is linked to the paragraph where it is written. Paragraph (g) to what paragraph? Probably to § 161. But paragraph (g) is completely missing. At least I judge according to the knowledge of the alphabet, as I studied primary school, that the letter (f) followed by letter (g) in Section 161. But it's kind of different there. Point (f) is followed by point (h). I think it's some kind of press error, or some kind of clerk of clerks preparing it. But I think these are serious legislative mistakes. I don't know how the law was discussed with the professional public. I'm not part of the professional public. But the law is sewn with a very hot needle. And at least on this example, because I've looked, like, ten times, to see if I've discovered this letter, and I haven't, so it's obvious that it's making legislative mistakes that I really wouldn't expect. I don't want to go into a detailed discussion of regional education funding models. For one thing, I am not a practical teacher, I am not primarily a member of the relevant school committee, and let's say I do not have such practical experience in this field. Nevertheless, I think that even those who have no practical experience should comment on such an important law. [[16.20 hours]] I consider this bill to be centralist, with a large increase in red tape, even for schools themselves. I don't want to talk about regions here anymore. But it was a social democracy that accelerated the emergence of regions in 2000, even before debate was even discussed about how the regions should be financed, and accelerated the abolition of the school authorities and more or less started the emergence of differences which now, after some twelve years, have taken over the competence of the regions, wonders. In any case, the system put forward by the government, or by the Minister, certainly transfers a significant part of the competences and competences in regional education from the regions back to the state. That's right. And the regions will de facto only influence the financing of the so-called indirect costs, as is the case with municipalities. Unfortunately, it is a system proposed by the Minister, who is even less predictable for individual schools than the current one. Everything essential will be very much connected with the Ministry of Education's will, new questionnaires will be filled out again, and I have serious doubts about foresight. When I began with the post-November history of funding education, and I think it was good to go through that history, I must say that in many ways we are beginning to return a long time ago, even before November 1989, or at least the very beginning of the 1990s. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please get to Mr. Kořenko's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I will not now act as rapporteur, but a few comments on funding. I would just like to remember that, as a person who has moved in education and perhaps knows a little bit about it, I personally consider the biggest problem of education to be that sector management has been abolished. I think that this is a thing that should never have happened, because if education is one of the greatest values, its decentralization certainly did not benefit education. As far as the amendment is concerned, the amendment has been discussed for years. I myself was a participant in many sessions, many round tables, and basically no result showed up. I'd still like to say that as principal of the school, I never, orientally did, but he couldn't figure out exactly what I was getting because he didn't even know the county. And today is a change in the fact that if the principal learns and has to, or has an economist to work with those numbers, I think the way I modeled it, the proposal is predictable. Why can't the current system be fair? I will try to explain very briefly. The county gets money in four quarters. I already told you. And one, the fifth, is according to institutional care. Those cohorts are about 50, 60 grand by age today. So one age category is three to five years, the other six to fourteen, the third fifteen to eighteen, and the fourth nineteen to twenty-one. Then there's an item for institutional education or for the number of beds in constitutional education, and I suspect there's 255,000 according to the report. That's all I'm gonna do. So when these four cohorts get to the county and start working them out into their normalizations -- and now I'm sorry, I don't know if there's 14 of them -- of course, the amount of resources from that network in the county is different. So there can be no situation where it will be financed equally in one region, the other region, in the third region. Because there is a significant role of settlement, age structure and everything else. That's why the differences are so crucial. And I would just like to make a point that in the past, schools have already been financed, and I certainly don't think that what was in the past was fundamentally wrong. The director knew what resources he was working with, it worked with, and he could really pursue the development of school, the quality of education, and it wasn't a pursuit of money and projects of all kinds, so that the school had to develop, pay, etc. However, as prepared by the law, I still submit a motion for an extension of the time limit for examining the bill by 30 days, i.e. 90 days in total. I do so in accordance with § 91 (1) of the EC Treaty. 3 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. And I propose that we discuss the bill in committees within a period of 30 days longer, i.e. within a period of 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u33	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. I ask the appellant whether she is interested in the final word, and I will also ask her to comment on the extension of the deadline, because it is more than 20 days, if she agrees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u34	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for the debate, and although opinions on how best to change the funding of regional schools vary, I am glad that we agree on what the situation is at the moment and that, above all, we must start taking action. I am prepared to be available in the Chamber of Deputies, of course, including my colleagues, and not only within subcommittees and committees, the Education Committee, but also within separate meetings on topics that will interest you, to answer all questions so that the level of clarity is as high as possible for you and the information as possible. As regards the proposal to extend the deadline between first and second reading, as was said by the rapporteur, Petr Kořenko, I agree with him. Thank you and, of course, I ask the Chamber of Deputies to pass through the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u35	I thank the Minister and ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just sum up what went on in the debate. I would like to draw attention to Mr Fiala's speech, which drew attention to the need for links and dedication to the issue of funding for higher education. Further from his mouth was a motion to reject the law at first reading. And a proposal was made to extend the deadline by 30 days for committee discussions. The petitioner agreed to this extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-003-222.u37	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm gonna ask my colleagues out of the lobby one more time. I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards, because we will now vote on Mr Fiala's motion to reject the bill. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 177, 158 registered, for 16, against 115. The motion to reject the proposal was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order a motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 178, registered 167 present, for 164, against 1. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the school committee as a guarantee committee. [[16.30 hours]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I am asking whether anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see anyone. So at this point, we will proceed to the vote on the extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. the overall time for committee discussions will be 90 days. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 179, registered 168 present, for 165, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been adopted, and I conclude the discussion of this point in the first reading. Let me get an apology from today's meeting. From 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Balaštíková apologises. We will now proceed to discuss the next point and that is
