ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u1	42. Government bill on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks and amending certain related laws /German press 936/ - first reading I would like to ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, on behalf of the Government, to state this point. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I present to you the Government Bill on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks and amending certain related laws. The proposed bill transposes Directive 2014/61/EU into the Czech legal order on measures to reduce the cost of building high-speed electronic communications networks. The aim of this Directive is to lay down certain minimum rules and obligations applicable throughout the EU with a view to facilitating the implementation of high-speed electronic communications networks and cross-sectoral coordination. The bill regulates: One. Establishment of a single information point for those entities that need this infrastructure information for the construction of high-speed networks. This function will be performed by ČTÚ. Two. Rules for providing information on physical infrastructure and electronic communications networks. Three. Rules for the provision of information on planned works and coordination of public-funded works. Four. Ensure access to physical infrastructure for the purpose of building high-speed electronic communications networks and on-the-spot surveys. The scope of the dispute resolution body, whose function will also be performed by the ČTÚ. Furthermore, the draft law regulates certain other elements which are not directly related to the transposition, including the amendment of the Electronic Communications Act, in order to fulfil the tasks arising from the radio spectrum management strategy. The draft law was approved by the government at its meeting of 5 October t. r. Let me say that the proposed bill is the result of a complicated compromise involving not only the electronic communications sector but also the energy sector. It can be assumed that this agreement between the two sectors will enable effective application of the individual institutes of the proposed law. I would also like to inform you that the European Commission has already initiated infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic on the transposition of the directive due to delayed transposition, which has been moved to the stage of the reasoned opinion. This is the last step before the opening of proceedings before the European Court of Justice, after which sanctions are already being imposed. In this context, I would like to ask you to be helpful in discussing this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u3	I thank the Minister, and I believe that the House will certainly be helpful. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think the Minister has justified this quite well in an exhaustive manner. Perhaps it should be added, and in this I see the main idea of this bill, and that is to reduce the cost of building high-speed electronic communications networks, which should contribute to increasing the digitalisation rate of the entire public sector, which, in addition to reducing public administration costs and increasing the efficiency of services provided to citizens, would also create additional leverage for all sectors of the economy. That's what I see in the main meaning of this novel. Otherwise, I think I have nothing further to add, perhaps even that the costs for the Czech Telecommunications Office will be over 21 million in the next year, in 2018 over 22 million. as well as in 2019 and 2020. Otherwise, I would ask you to assign this law to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Ivan Pilný first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to further deliberation of this law. It is not only that it is a year and a half late, that it is a transposition of the European Union directive, that they threaten us with infringement, but it is above all that digital infrastructure in the Czech Republic is in very poor condition, far worse than energy infrastructure, transport, although it does not seem. Without its completion and construction, we will not be able to and will only write documents such as Industry 4.0, Society 4.0, Digital Education, eGovernment. All we can do is dream about it, because the train is getting away, and the lights are no longer visible at the end of the tunnel. This law doesn't solve everything, it's just the first step. Not only a step towards spending 14 billion. the European money that is promised on this matter, but the European Union is preparing other directives and packages of directives that will allow far more public support than is currently the case. It will be the support of ammunition, libraries and other things. I'm saying this law doesn't solve everything because, above all, it doesn't have much support in the construction law. That means, there's no obligation when someone kicks into the ground, there may be a safety guard on optical cables. It also does not solve the problem of ammunition, because some behave wisely, and the requirements of some to establish material burdens are beyond the limits of those who build the high-speed Internet. But again, if this country doesn't have digital infrastructure, all other things, including eGovernment, will remain on paper. I therefore very much intercede for the adoption and negotiation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. President Laudát, after whom Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister Mládek said he was begging for indulgence. The TOP 09 will, of course, be lenient, just because we called, and we are very nervous, now I think TOP 09, I do not think that this amendment to the law, this transposition comes only now. I would very much like the Ministry of Industry and Trade to take not only this matter, but the whole issue of the digital Czech Republic into its own hands and to start working more with forgiveness. We're losing, even though a member of the YES movement said it here, I still have to say it's true, we're losing, we've always been ahead of Slovakia, we've already gotten close to the same level today. I just want to say that obviously, Minister, your experts or those who are responsible at the Ministry don't listen to top-notch, today in Europe, top people in Dejvice who warn about the fact that parameters for fast Internet, that's 100 megabytes per second for 50 percent of the population, and I think 50 or 30 or how much you have there for everyone, that's not enough. If we really want to talk about Industry 4.0, there will be a dramatic increase in capacity and speed. And I'm afraid you're building here, or you just want to build for 14 billion. European subsidies to the Trabant at a time when the Porsche is needed. So I'd say a lot of things. For the next one. I'm not quite sure these people, I don't know how to be an agent, but those people who care about you, they're precise clerks. I very, very much urge that systemic steps be taken as regards the certification of those parameters throughout the digital space. And it does not go at all here, as the rapporteur has said, about public administration or eGovernment and other things from the public sector, that is only one part. We need really high-speed or even in the spine of ultra-high-speed internet, very modern to get ahead of the time. I would urge, of course, that we will look into this in detail at the Economic Committee and that we will try to get it back to the House as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kučera has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u10	Thank you for the floor. My colleagues on the Economic Committee have already said a lot about this, so I will not repeat myself. I would mention some things that I think are essential in this area, and I would divide them into two parts. One thing is the issue of coverage, which is obviously addressed here, but the other thing that seems to be missing here, or is still under-mentioned, as the chairman of the Economic Committee has already said, is digital services to the public, or there is our handicap. That means the coverage alone isn't gonna solve it. Coverage is one essential factor, especially if it reaches areas where there is no high-speed internet nowadays. This can contribute to the development of these areas, and of course I am talking about sub-mountain areas, I am talking about border areas, where it will enable them, if there is sufficient coverage, to allow not only companies, but also self-employed people to work in the various home offices, to stay there, not to travel for work and so on. I'm sure it's positive there. I know there was to be some analysis of the current state of Internet coverage. The last one was probably in 2013. I had information that the ČTÚ is preparing a much more detailed collection of data, which should be sometime in mid-2016. I don't know whether or not this indicative map of coverage of the Czech Republic is already available via high-speed network infrastructure. I'm saying I had information that it should be in mid-2016. I think the answer might be to the Economic Committee, because there will be more room for the discussion itself. There's another question here, and that's the useful use of the subsidy itself, the 14 billion. The koruna, that means how it will be drawn, who can participate in the competition. Last year, there were concerns that it would only be prepared for the biggest companies, that the smaller ones would not reach them. I think it would be good for the Minister here to tell us what the current situation is, if this has been resolved in any way and how, if any. However, I will return to the beginning. The issue of coverage is of course important, but at the same time it is important to address digital services to the public, and that is not what is in this material, and I generally blame this government coalition for its failure to move this throughout its term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out for the record that I voted against the last vote of 20, and I have a say in high school. I am not questioning the vote, but I would like it to be recorded in the log. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u13	Thank you, ma'am. I'm sure it will be. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one else applies to this law, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister, did you still want to debate? Please, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who are interested in this issue, but I feel obliged to explain a little what we are actually discussing, because some of the information that has been said has been somewhat inaccurate. Please, this law isn't about splitting 14 billion. European money. This law is, if I simplify it, that if you dig some kind of groove that you put a water line or an electric cable into, you could also add high-speed Internet wires or at least a protector to which the wires reach sometime in the future. This is intended to help the private sector, in particular, to make it cheaper to build high-speed internet. It has to be said that the private sector, which itself considers its will as digital network business projects, primarily decides whether the Internet will be here in this country. The role of the state is limited. Limited to this law, which is intended to make building up to the private sector cheaper. I want to stress, the 14 billion, it's not about building the Internet in general, it's not about 4.0 industry. Please, Prime Minister, I'm talking to him... Prime Minister. The 14 billion is about peripheral areas. It is indeed, as Mr Kučera said, about border areas where it will not be built by the private sector. Even the European Union prohibits us from giving public money where the private sector is building or where the private sector has built something, which, of course, makes it very difficult to provide public money. Another problem is that at this point, we are at a stage before the announcement of challenges that will enable the private sector to raise the private money. But that is completely different from what we are discussing today, and I am prepared to address this issue at the meeting of the Economic Committee, if the Economic Committee so requests. This law - I would like to stress this - lasted so long that it requires incredible coordination. I had to present it together with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Czech Telecommunications Office. It is one of the laws that is bordering and which in the past could also be assigned to the Ministry of Regional Development, because it is close to the building law, to the licensing procedure, because this is primarily about the construction, laying of cables and these protectors. I am glad that we have managed to reach an agreement that has not been easy at all. When we reached a substantive agreement, there was a simple debate with the Government's Legislative Council, because private law and public law are intersecting on this issue. The legislative board can either do one or the other, and the moment the two elements are there, it's becoming a bigger problem. I'd still like to respond to the map. The map is, of course, created, not part of this law, but is part of the national plan for building new generation networks, which was also approved by the government in October of this year. On this basis, the areas where calls for European money can be drawn up are defined. I would like to ask again for the approval of this law, knowing that this law is at the intersection of several departments, where it is primarily about the construction law and related matters and only secondarily it is about the high-speed Internet. Next thing you know, digitalization. Not by chance a government agent was created for this area. I must say that what makes this difficult is that, after the cancellation of the Ministry of Informatics, these competencies were divided into several departments. Several ministers deal with this, which, of course, does not make it easier to build not only those networks, but generally digitization and implementation of eGovernment in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u15	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I do not see any motion to rebut or reject the proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? [[No one checked in.]] I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment of this motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment to the Economic Committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 21; 137 Members and Members are registered, for 135, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The rapporteur would like to propose ordering this proposal to the next committee. And what's that, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u16	As I have announced in my opening speech, I suggest that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development be ordered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-002-042.u17	Thank you. Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? If not, I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 22, 141 Members and Members, for 90, against 26. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee and also by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Minister Stropnický has a replacement card number 70. Thank you. That concludes the discussion of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
