ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u1	201. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 201, these are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. On the agenda of the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 11 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an intercessed Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further." We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš responded to the interview of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the procedure of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in clarifying the case of manipulation in the sale of state debts. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a 605 printing. The discussion of this response has been suspended, and I am opening the debate. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip is reporting to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, in the middle of last year, I interposed the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, on the treatment of State claims, claims that arose in the past, as I did here in the Mototechna case in České Budějovice. I've alerted other cases like Ostroj Opava. Those who are here for more parliamentary periods know that I have dealt with this case in the past. My question focused on the way in which the Minister of Finance proceeded after taking up his duties in the field of revision and investigation of cases of suspects, often mediated cases concerning the Ministry of Finance in the management of entrusted property. The point is that following the demise of the Consolidating Bank or the transfer of the Consolidating Bank to the Consolidating Agency and the demise of the Consolidating Agency, these rights and commitments to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance manage them directly or through the Office for the Representation of State Property Rights. There are several matters. I appreciate that the Minister of Finance also gave me an answer to another interpellation concerning Opava's instrument, but it wasn't about one particular case. I was concerned about this, and the first question was precisely what measures the Minister of Finance has taken in the area of revision and investigation of suspects and often very problematic cases that he has in competence. So it wasn't about one or two cases, but it was about the property that is now under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, and whether it is managed directly or through the Office for the Representation of State Property Rights. The most important case was not the subject of interpelation at that time, because it has evolved since July last year, such as the claim for oil reserves in the Federal Republic of Germany, which are essentially the Material Reserve Administration. But that wasn't the object of the interpellation. I was talking about the past cases, which means how the funds got, how they're registered, whether they're being dealt with, or what the Minister of Justice said here, there's nothing we can do about it. I don't want to accept that, and I'm not going to. The second question was whether he was prepared to submit such a report to the Chamber of Deputies or whether we should request it. The third question was what measures were planned to ensure state property rights in the matter, so that individual rights would not be kept silent, because during privatisation in the 1990's, of course, even though in the criminal code in the past and in the current criminal law the paragraph passed, which says that those matters relating to privatisation are not limited for 20 years, so now things that were decided in 1995, and this year the government's decision from privatisation in 1996 will gradually be kept silent. And I do not think the Chamber of Deputies should accept that. That was the object of my interpellation. The rejection of the answer was that the Minister focused essentially only on those cases that I directly mentioned in the list of examples, and not on the substance of the question I repeated twice, which concerned the amount of property substance. That is why I expected that in the following answer or before discussion, the Minister would extend the reply by informing, for example, the Czech Republic's state final account of the claims and how they were gradually suspended. That's the essence of my rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u3	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello. Madam President, colleagues, I am glad that Mr Filip is talking about this issue. When I joined the ministry, I learned how it was at the beginning, how many claims we had and what happened to them. The result is truly pitiful. We had claims against Libya instead of getting some oil wells, or even against other landscapes, and it was more or less actually stunted or sold to companies that didn't recover it, etc. I certainly have no problem presenting it transparently. I replied to the interview on August 20th, informed President Filip that I had ordered the audit that it took place from 1 October 2014 to 24 November 2014. We're dealing with it, but the inheritance has been the subject of more lawsuits and criminal proceedings, and it's taking so long. It's obviously a problem. I don't have a problem with someone setting me a deadline to present the detailed state of our work with state claims. State liabilities - I don't know exactly what they meant. I'm sure, as the President here asks me if I want to lead my officials to obstructions like my predecessor, I certainly don't want to. Our officials are there to represent the interests of the state, and that's what they do. I'm sure I have no problem presenting this transparently, but there are a lot of things where we're in the role of a waiter for a court decision or a police investigation. About Viktoriagruppe - this is a case that is in the competence of the state's material reserves. It is also one of the major tunnels, an incredible case since 2004, a criminal report 2011, no result. It is absurd that someone has decided to store state material reserves abroad. That's where the State Attorney's Office for Property Affairs only does the legal back office, so the authority is actually in the hands of the head of state... [[He didn't say what to the chairman.]] I don't know who's gonna give me a deadline, but I don't have a problem presenting everything, even regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u5	Thank you, Minister. Vice-President Filip is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I believe that his work certainly does not lead to obstructions, but I am in a situation where I cannot propose a deadline because we have a point that is called answers to written interpelations. I assumed that the Minister of Finance would use this interpelation to inform the Government of the Czech Republic about the claims of the tunnel's great privatization, which cost this state even smaller estimates - I dare say the number said by former President Václav Havel that CZK 430 billion had been lost in the wild privatisation. This means that somewhere in this debt - I think it was a little bit more, but I don't have another number for it to be published somewhere and I'm not going to talk about speculation on parliamentary grounds. So my point is, if I don't know the deadline for the government to present to the Chamber of Deputies what debts are, then I can imagine that it will be in connection with the submission of, for example, a state closing account, which means sometime in April of this year, because it would also be related to what assets are reported from those claims and what the fate of those assets will be. That means we're going to have to write off the assets, because no one else has used privatization to enrich themselves, and in doing so, they've liquidated the property of the businesses, whether they're productive or of a different nature. [[missing verb]] In this respect, I have no choice but to propose that the Chamber of Deputies reject the answer not because I am dissatisfied with the Minister's reply here, but because the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to do anything else. That means, personally, when the Minister says that by the time the state's final account is presented, the Ministry of Finance will be able to present a list of those claims, I will be in a situation where his reply will satisfy me. If not, then I will have to propose a rejection of the reply and essentially ask, for example, at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, to include a point where we could make the relevant resolution. The Rules of Procedure limit me from simply rejecting or accepting the answer. Without knowing a term, I can't accept it. The Ministry of Finance is able to present such an inventory of the assets that are the claims of the state to those strange privatizers. So I guess that's the reaction to the Minister's speech. I really can't fix it, I don't know what the state of the Treasury inventory is. My idea is that it could be part of the 2015 state closing account because it has to be stated somewhere what the state's debt is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u7	Yes, thank you. I see the Minister wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u8	Thank you. Yeah, I don't have a problem with that. I will therefore submit detailed information to the Government of the Czech Republic by the end of March and submit this information to the State Final Account for 2015 as proposed by the President. So I agree, and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u9	Yes, thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u10	Thank you. I take the Minister's word for it, and I do not ask for rejection or further consideration of this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u11	So it's a I am asking if anyone else is reporting for the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. We shall vote on a favourable position. You don't want to? So Mr. Interpeller doesn't want to vote on any resolution, so I'm ending this interpelation. Thank you. We will now proceed to the next interpellation. It is an interpelation to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who responded to Mr Karel Fiedler's interpellation with regard to the Security Council of the State. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 623. The discussion of this response has been suspended and I am opening a debate to which Mr Fiedler is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and members of the government. I would like to respond to the Minister's written reply when I interrogated him on the seriousness of the reasons for calling the Security Council of the State on the issue of the situation in the Czech Post, when we know that on this matter, I think I remember correctly that the coalition club of the ANO movement has called or called an emergency meeting that has been interrupted and has not yet continued. The specific responses of Prime Minister Sobotka on the seriousness of the reasons for the summoning I haven't read the State Security Council. I do not know whether they are of such a nature that they cannot be communicated, or there were no such reasons, which I would like to know. And even in my original question, there was a question whether the nature of those reasons was more fundamental than calling the Security Council of the State to a situation with a growing migration wave which at that time, at the time of calling the Security Council on the situation to the post office, was not, she was subsequently, I was aware of it, but at that moment she was not. So if the reasons that led to the call of the Security Council of the State to the situation in the post office were really as serious and as they were, because I did not know the answer to my questions from the Prime Minister's written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u13	Thank you and please the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u14	Hello, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members. Allow me to perform here today for the first time on all the points scheduled today. During today's meeting The Chamber of Deputies will be honored to see each other here several times. However, first of all, on this written question, which has been provided here, or in relation to the disagreement of the Member with what I have said on his written question. I would like to begin by saying that the Prime Minister has the competence to convene the Security Council of the State as well as the Bureau of the Security Council of the State. Two years ago, I decided to actively use this competence in the context of the fact that our government puts much more emphasis on safety issues than it did in previous years. And that's why, if you look at the past two years, you'll find that the Security Council Bureau of the State has met several times, and the Security Council of the State has met repeatedly. As regards the question of this particular meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State, I would like to state the following facts. On 20 August 2015, a meeting was held by the Security Council Bureau of the State on two issues. The issue of kidnapped citizens of the Czech Republic in Lebanon and Libya took place and the current development in the state enterprise Česká pošta. I called the Bureau of the Security Council of the State because of the need to evaluate the information of the competent authorities of the Czech Republic on the situation of the kidnapped Czech citizens as well as the information of the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec as well as information received by the Government from the secret services concerning the management of the state enterprise Česká pošta. Czech Post is a state enterprise that manages the property of the state and is therefore a legitimate interest of the government in its proper management. Representatives of other competent authorities with information on the case of the Czech Post took part in the meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State so that objective information could be presented at this meeting in order not to compromise the proper functioning of this important state enterprise. The outcome of this meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State was presented at a subsequent press conference. As I have also said at this press conference, efforts to make the Czech Post more transparent and economical are coming across a wide range of private interests, and there are also private companies that are putting pressure on the management of the Czech Post as well as the Ministry of the Interior not to move towards transparency and move towards economy. During the meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State, I put emphasis on an independent and consistent examination of all cases that were currently related to the Czech Post. At the press conference, at which I spoke after the meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State, I also said that the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec has my full support regarding the issue of promoting greater efficiency and transparency in the Czech Post. So much for this issue, which concerned this negotiation. And I can assure you, Mr Member, that, too, honourable Members, one of the incentives on the basis of which this meeting took place by the Bureau of the Security Council of the State was also an initiative in the form of information from one of the security services of the Czech Republic. As regards the further questions raised, which I have received in the Member's interpellation. I must say that the Security Council of the State and the Bureau The Security Councils of the State have repeatedly addressed and dealt with migration crisis issues. On the issue of migration, a meeting was held by the Security Council Bureau of the State on 10 September 2015. Similarly, the issue of migration was dealt with by the Security Council of the State when it met on 6 October last year, as well as the issue of migration was dealt with by the Security Council of the State, which last met this week. I want to assure the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's proposals on how to improve the security situation of the Czech Republic are being discussed in relation to one of the aspects of the migration crisis at all meetings of the Security Council of the State. I would like to remind you that at the meeting of the Security Council of the State, which took place this week, we discussed a whole set of proposals by the Ministry of the Interior for better state capacity to face the threats of a terrorist attack. The file is known as an anti-terrorist package. The Security Council of the State approved this proposal and ordered the Minister of the Interior to elaborate these matters and these measures. In the same way, the Security Council of the State has dealt with the assignment for the audit of national security, as well as the Security Council of the State addressed this week's task for the Ministry of the Interior to map infrastructure around border crossings and at the state border of the Czech Republic so that in the future we are able to take measures to strengthen the protection of the border of the Czech Republic with knowledge of the situation on the spot after a large part of the border crossings has been transferred to other state components or some assets in this area have also been privatised. So much for just showing some of the topics we discussed this week at the Security Council meeting. In any case, the topic of migration and the topic of combating terrorism, the topic of strengthening security, is the main part of the Security Council's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiedler is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u16	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I have to say, from my point of view, she was above average specific, and I'm not used to such specific answers from you. But I have one more supplementary question. You were talking about the fact that on this - I say, I will only speak to the post office. It concerns that you said that there were presented facts that led to this meeting of the Security Council of the State, and I understand that perhaps not everything is specific. However, I have a question of the nature, whether the reasons that were, so far, have been resolved or are in the solution. Because we're still open to this extraordinary meeting, whether the nature of the reasons that led to the call at the time remains or have things moved on in some way. A quick answer, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u17	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the specific situation in the Czech Post, the addressee of the question should be the Minister of the Interior or the Director of the Czech Post. However, I would like to state that, as Prime Minister, I am legally the recipient of reports from the secret services of the Czech Republic on the basis of the relevant provisions, that is, I have also called this meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State on the basis of the information obtained from these reports. So it was one of those sources, one of the reasons why I agreed to include the topic of the Czech Post at the Bureau of the Security Council of the State. This information was also received by the Minister of the Interior and I assume that he has handled this information in such a way as to improve the management of the state enterprise Česká pošta and to strengthen the transparency of the functioning of this important state organisation. I also consider it important to state that when secret services are directed towards constitutional agents, it is important that constitutional officials actively deal with this information, that is to say that they do not underestimate the information they receive and provide incentives, whether in terms of the functioning of individual state authorities or in terms of law enforcement authorities. I am a supporter of the fact that these reports are not only kept in a drawer, they were not only kept in secret archives at the offices, but, in order to be evaluated, specific initiatives were made on the basis of their content in terms of the functioning of other state institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u19	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Fiedler whether he is proposing a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. It doesn't suggest, so we can consider this interpelation closed. Thank you. We will now proceed to the next interpellation. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka replied to Mr Karel Fiedler's interview on the ČSÚ's position on the valuation of restitution of church property. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 624 printing. The discussion of this response has been suspended. I am opening the debate and Mr Fiedler is applying for it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to add to this matter, because the Prime Minister certainly knows that I have dealt with this issue and that I am still following it, I still have reports from the Czech Statistical Office that this proposed cooperation between the Ministry of Culture in the valuation of property, which was the subject of Act 428, and neither the repeated offer of the Czech Statistical Office at the meeting of experts from both institutions was accepted. I quote that from a letter from the CSU. I ask myself, and this I did not read in the answer, why the offer of the Czech Statistical Office, an institution that is a state institution, was not taken into account, and this was not used when the Czech Statistical Office - and I would consider it to be the most competent and credible institution in this matter - why this offer was not used. This morning I - I will complete my question - looked at the pages of the Office of the Government, where the activities of individual bodies of the Office of the Government are presented, and this is also a commission or committee to address the effects of Act 428. There I saw that the last meeting took place on June 18, 2015. If I remember correctly, this committee should be sitting on a quarterly basis, so I somehow lack the continuation of its activities there, because I assume that all matters under this law have not yet been settled, and therefore it is not yet - logically, there is no deadline for 2015, which the Ministry of Culture has an obligation to publish by February 2016, so that is all right, that is not a mistake. But the fact that this committee did not sit down, at least from what I just learned on the website of the Office of the Government, over six months ago, is rather surprising. And the third question. The settlement of these claims under Law 428 was to take place until June 2014, yes, the time is very high, until June 2014 and, in justified cases, it could have been extended longer until December 2014. Since we are in January 2016 and still do not have information that everything has been settled, and therefore the provisions of Act No.428 are being violated and the Government is not doing anything about it, so I would also like to make a statement on this. Because here we have a law adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in the past period in a rather complicated situation, where the Prime Minister's party in particular actively opposed it, which I acknowledged with gratitude then, and today, although it is not fulfilled, the law is broken, so nothing happens. So if my question, a specific question, is there a rule of law here to go beyond it or to stick to it, especially when there's a proposal in the House that's trying to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u21	The Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u22	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to respond to the specific questions asked by Mr Fiedler, who was not satisfied with my written response to his intervention. First of all, I have to say that I have put in this written reply all the information at our disposal as a government in terms of the first publication of the opinion of the Czech Statistical Office on the valuation of the restitutiond church property. I would like to note that the Czech Statistical Office, following Eurostat's methodology in the field of national accounts, carried out a valuation of assets issued to churches and religious companies in 2013 and 2014. This award and information about the award were published on 14 May 2015. Naturally, the restitution process continued to take place during 2015 and I would like to inform you that it will naturally take place in 2016, with the fact that, for the most part, these restitutions should already be settled under the law during 2016. I think it is not possible to criticise the government from a double point of view, firstly to say that the government is not paying enough attention to the question of restitution, and at the same time to criticise the fact that all restitutions were not realized within the very short period foreseen by the original law. If there were such rapid issuance of assets as the original law envisaged, I believe that this would significantly increase the risk of errors and would increase the risk that the claims of the churches, as applied, were not properly reviewed. I really do not consider it a serious problem if the State used that time and needed more time to properly assess all requests for the extradition of property submitted under that law, the treaty between the State and the churches, so that the requests are properly assessed. Thus, as Prime Minister in my communication, through which I have a committee that meets and discusses the question of religious restitution, I appeal, in particular, to the responsibility and quality of the work of individual state institutions, whether it be the State Land Office, whether it be the ÚZSVM, whatever other mandatory state institutions, such as the Forests of the Czech Republic, which deal with the issue of property. [[9.40 hours]] The deadline laid down in the original law was disproportionately short, in my view it was not seriously set in view of the volume of the assets issued, and I do not have any signals from the Church that the fact that the deadline was exceeded was fundamentally problematic by the Church. I think both sides, both the state and the churches, are interested in making the process properly and not being questioned in any way. So all the requests need to be checked, the evidence had to be collected, searched in the archives, and assessed whether the requests exceeded the limits defined by the law on religious restitution. As far as the amendment tabled here in the Chamber of Deputies is concerned, it has not yet been discussed and, in my opinion, the amendment has become obsolete from a time point of view. If, say, she had been discussed and approved at the beginning of this parliamentary term, she would probably have played a positive role in terms of the moderation of that time, which was legally intended for the issue of church property, but since it was not discussed and approved, we are now proceeding in a way that allows us to make the existing law possible. As far as the question of religious restitution is concerned, and given how the whole matter was legally implemented, so without agreement, without amending the agreement between the state and the churches, neither the government nor any majority in this Chamber of Deputies can change the agreement, because special construction has been chosen, that means that there is not only a law on religious restitution, but that law is also accompanied by an agreement which was then very quickly concluded after the adoption of the law between the government and the churches on the basis of the law that this property will be issued. In the event of a unilateral amendment to the law which would not be in accordance with this agreement, then on the basis of the analyses that we had at our disposal, there would be a risk that this will not stand up to the Constitutional Court, and this legislative amendment could be abolished on the basis of the existing agreement between the State and the churches. That is the whole problem of the non-variable rule, as it was set up in the past. Although, in my opinion, it was not set in the best possible way and it was not set in a good way, the legal structure that was chosen does not allow the unilateral intervention of the parliamentary majority in that law without at the same time changing their position on restitution. And I just want to remind you that, following the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in 2013, I repeatedly dealt with the representatives of the Church, repeatedly trying to get them to change their position, to accept changes or corrections in the treaty between the State and the churches. But the churches rejected all these proposals either to reduce compensation or to reduce the volume of property issued. So without this agreement, it is not possible for the parliamentary majority to change this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u23	Thank you. And Mr Fiedler is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u24	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I have no choice but to thank the Prime Minister for his reply, which I suppose I have no more fundamental reservations about, and I have no choice but to agree with the content of what the Prime Minister said, because I also believe that the volume of the property issued by 30 June 2014 was so huge that it could not be handled at that time. I totally agree with that view. I also agree with the fact that the parliamentary amendment, it is for Members who do not have it in the light, which is logical, it is the Parliamentary press 144, which is also no longer timely, because it did not occur to us at all that this matter could continue for so long. Just here, and that's the thing with you, Prime Minister, I don't think I'm gonna agree with your answer, putting this item on the agenda about three times, the attempt to discuss it, and it's always been rejected by the votes of your MP. So I don't understand why... You're saying right now that the terms are out of date, but it was possible to do it so that it was up to date because there were no other essential things in the amendment proposal, and so today we are still in conflict with the wording of Act 428. You said here that there is no threat from the church institutions, or that they do not represent any further claims, or that there is a problem with that, that this term is not fulfilled. I ask - I have registered that I do not always - I am based on information from the media, from the newspapers - that it may not always be so, that it may prove that this problem will be, that this term will not be fulfilled. What will be done in this case if - the first question - if it occurs that any of these institutions will make any claims for delay and failure to comply with the deadline? And the second question, if you absolutely exclude that this could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u25	Thank you. And Mr. Koníček is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u26	Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to ask the Prime Minister another question. He said that he dealt with the churches that there is nothing to be done with these treaties, but at the same time there is one thing in the committee's reports, and that the property for which the churches received financial compensation is simply being sued in court, i.e. property owned by the regions and municipalities, for which the churches were granted financial compensation under the law, are being brought actions for the determination of ownership. And I ask the Prime Minister if, if this property is to be issued, the churches have received financial compensation for him, whether he will conduct negotiations with the churches to reduce the financial contribution, because then the churches would be paid both physically and physically for the property. I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u27	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Prime Minister, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the settlement law with the churches, according to which part of the former church property is being returned and compensation is being paid at the same time and the financing of churches in the Czech Republic is being settled in the coming years, because this is one of the aspects of the whole proposal, so there is an assumption that municipalities and regions are not obliged to return church property, which means that these actions should only be brought on the municipalities and regions if, after 1989, there has been some movement of property which may be problematic in some justified way. In other cases, in my opinion, there is no reason for churches to apply the issue of property of municipalities or regions. In more complex, more complicated situations, the court will have to decide whether the claims are justified or not. The court, too, is bound by law in its decision-making, which means that the court should also be bound by the law of settlement with the churches which has been approved in Parliament and which clearly states that municipalities and regions are not obliged to issue church property. This is, say, one plane that concerns the decision-making of the courts that occurs in those cases where the relevant actions have been brought. Two. I think that when the issue of property will be completed and it will be clear how these litigations took place, with which result, so it would be good to quantify the extent of the assets that will still be acquired on the part of the Church in this way, and in my view this should be the subject of negotiations between the state and the churches. [[9.50 hours]] However, the law, as it was designed - and I stress again that I voted against the adoption of this law at the time - does not contain any such correction or settlement mechanism. That's the problem. The law doesn't have pre-defined rules on how to proceed in situations like this. However, I am definitely in favour of the government mapping the results of all litigation, and I am definitely in favour of negotiating with the churches afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Karel Fiedler to propose a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will just comment on your initiative whether or not I want to propose a resolution. From the nature of the issue of this point, when I said that it is also necessary to wait for the report of the Ministry of Culture for 2015 to be published until February of this year, and from what the Prime Minister said, that these things are running, I will not propose any resolutions at this time, because it is necessary to wait for them to catch up, and then I will have to return to this question by written intervention or any other form. There is probably no point in proposing a resolution at this point. It's just a reason why I don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u31	Thank you, and therefore I am done with this interpelation. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka responded to the interview of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the selection procedure for the position of director of the Frýdek-Místek plant of the state enterprise Povodí Odry. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as printing of 671. I am opening the debate and reporting to it by Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u32	Thank you for the floor. I've decided to speak fairly at peace today, because it's the third time we've discussed the problem. We all have three answers from the Minister of Agriculture, and for me personally, it is a sad reading, and it is probably not worth having some passionate political debate about what I consider sad reading to be. Let me just get this straight. The Minister called off the director of the state enterprise Podvodí Odry. I said repeatedly that he had every right to do so, and there's no problem with that. If he had simply said that in reply to my first interview, I wouldn't have a second one, and I don't think the Chamber of Deputies would have disagreed with his answer. He gave about four reasons for the first interpellation that led him to appeal. In doing so, he could actually say, "The law allows me to do without giving a reason, " and he would be absolutely right. The first and biggest reason he mentioned was that the former CEO refused to issue a tender for the director of the Frýdek-Místek race with the fact that he wanted to entrust this function to someone on the inside of the company and wanted to write an internal tender. This was the last straw the Minister referred to as disobeying the instructions of the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture. The new CEO took this position in an internal tender. I'm not criticizing it, I think it's the right thing to do. The reasons given by the former and current Director-General are in principle identical. It's good for someone who knows the environment that works in that business to take up such an exposed function. So it turns out this reason isn't true. It is also in response to the first interpellation that the House rejected when the Minister says: The Director General has convinced me that it is appropriate to use an internal tender. The second reason was the poor communication with the self-government and the question with which the self-government was appointed by the Minister of the municipality of Nové Heřminy. Moravian-Silesian Region, many municipalities in our region, support the construction of a dam in Nové Heřminovy. One of these villages is my city of Opava, which was severely affected by the floods in 1997, and therefore we support the construction of this dam across the political spectrum in Opava. The preparations continue. Not as much as I would have imagined, but it goes on. I think that's a good thing. It is perfectly logical that the citizens of the New Heřminov fundamentally disagree because a part of the village will be flooded. In every municipal election, if I could use the comment of someone who lives quite close, the mayor who is even more radical in his opposition than the previous mayor will win. It happened in 2014, if you have good information. And nothing changes to the communication of any director of the Odry basin with the mayor of Nové Heřmin, because the village simply doesn't want it, and the mayor of the existing one rejects it even more vehemently than the mayor of the previous. That means, even this reason isn't true. Then the Minister, in reply to the first interpelation, and at the same time in the debate that we had, I think twice back then, used what I personally can say offended me the most. He used that favorite phrase to smear somebody - I have information that there's some nonsense going on in the field of public procurement. And since I know the former CEO personally, I'm not hiding it, he's my friend, and I'm not hiding it either, so I thought it was an insulting statement. Time gave me the truth, nothing was found, there's no problem. So even that reason isn't true. And then the general reason - bad communication. But you can always say that. Communication can always be better. Admit it's such a good sentence when it refers to some subordinate that the problem was in communication. I don't want to argue with that in any way. I'm just saying, it's a general floscule that is often used, many and very often. This is what we discussed last time. Finally, the Chamber of Deputies rejected the answer. The minister sent me a new one, and basically, when I read it, he says, "It's probably a problem that no one from the Ministry has come to officially say goodbye to the CEO." But it's also because the former CEO left alone, he didn't wait for the result of the tender, so he did it to himself... Minister, that's no problem. There is really no problem that someone did not come with a chocolate from Prague, photographed the CEO before the advanced combat pledge or possibly wrote a commendation entry into the state company's chronicle. All you had to do was say normally humanly decently: the CEO ran the business well, there were no problems, he had good economic results. However, a new government, a new Minister of Agriculture, joined. I've decided to make a change... I wouldn't say anything. You obviously aren't capable of it. I'm not gonna design anymore. Nothing to the Chamber of Deputies. Read the evasive answers. Looking for a problem that someone didn't come from Prague to say goodbye, that's really not the problem. Maybe I'm judging you. Maybe one day, when you leave the ministry, you'll expect someone to come say goodbye to you, take a picture of you before a combat arrest or write something down in the chronicle. Maybe, maybe not. It's not about that. After all, you yourself will expect the words of your successor and you will be happy to say, for example: We won the elections, I became Minister of Agriculture, but I would like to appreciate the work of the former minister, I think he has done enough for the Czech Republic. It's much better than when the new minister comes in and says, "The first thing I'm gonna do is check out the whole period where the former minister worked here, and I'm gonna focus on the audits because I heard there was some suspicion in the resort that there were public procurement offences. At the same time, I heard that the former minister had problems in communication, communication could be better, and I promise that there will be better communication, a more transparent environment, etc. - I'd prefer whoever comes and who's the new minister to say the first. He thanked the previous minister for what he did for the Czech Republic, wished him success in further professional or political work and did not seek excuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u33	Thank you. The Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u34	Thank you. Madam President, my dear colleagues, Mr Stanjur, through Madam President, I must say that I appreciate the approach you have presented here today. I have to say, everyone's learning. For me, too, this matter is a great lesson. On the other hand, let me sum up just a few things, quite briefly. I joined the minister of this new government, but, for example, only on the example of five directors of Povodí, I replaced one single and I didn't make any drafts in that sense - now a new government came, now we're going to talk about it and call it off and name a new one. [[unintelligible]] I have full responsibility for how the Podvodí companies operate. On the basis of the aspect, I do not want to say again which, for the reasons that I have said, was more important to me, but at least I personally experienced the matter when I spoke with the Director twice, and I also have to say that we did not quite sit down in communication, although perhaps the situation was already escalating after their communication with Mr. First Deputy. I guess I'll give you that. Today, after experience, two years, I would have behaved differently, and I admit that honestly. So I'm going back to what you said in the beginning. It's my responsibility. It's my jurisdiction. Although I admit that I have made some mistakes in this matter, and today I would have acted differently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u35	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. It's not like that. Mr. Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if I am to understand correctly from the Minister that there is an apology in this, then the hat downstairs will admit that he would have behaved differently. And thank you for that. He's the only one in the government who apologized for something. Or at least that's how I see it. And I think you should think about whether there's a way, even though I know that you can't go back to the same river, at least as a result of your former decision, which you may regret today, correct, or at least compensate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u37	Thank you. And now no one is going into the debate anymore, so I am ending the debate. I just want to confirm, Mr Member - will you not propose a resolution? [[to Mr Stanjuri]] Excellent. So this is how we conclude this interpelation. We will now proceed to the next interpellation. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interview on the BDO study to press 513. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 672. I am opening the debate and reporting to it by Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u38	Thank you for the floor. If you look at the date of the interpellation, you'll find it's a really older date. I wanted to get an appropriate study through the interpellation. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Minister refused to give it to me, which was why I opposed this reply. So if you want a study, you don't get it, how can you agree to the answer? I must say that in the meantime, I did not understand why the Minister refused to give it to me when the same material was received by the Chamber of Deputies Audit Committee. So, thanks to my cooperation with the Audit Committee and the specific Members - thank you - I got the study, I could get to know it. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I learned in the media that the Ministry of Finance released it and published it for the general public, so I have no reason to suggest that I disagree with the answer today. However, I have spoken about this with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will also ask the Prime Minister to see to it that such a situation does not recur. I think that if any Member asks for any material that has clearly been ordered by any ministry, he has the right to receive it so that he can meet him and possibly work with him. I think we debate every Friday about what's going on in the BDO study. I'm not taking Thursdays to discuss EET. Perhaps only with a smile, if you look, when I asked how this material was selected, so of course I knew what a small scale contract was and what methods could be chosen by law. That's perfectly clear. I didn't need training. However, I have learned that according to the internal rules of the Ministry of Finance - and I do not criticize them, I think they are reasonably set - a service or goods worth up to 200,000 without tax can be ordered very easily. Let's see what the price of the ordered study was: 199 900 CZK without VAT. And I'm pretty sure that if there wasn't a limit of 200 in the Ministry of Finance's internal study, but maybe 250,000, which, in turn, is nothing that we should be right to criticize, it would be okay in accordance with the law, so I'm almost sure that the only offer, or whoever they approached, would be 249 900 CZK without VAT. I completely do not understand the fact that the first tender was issued when it did not have to, I admit it, it was an attempt to reach more companies when the estimated value of the contract was 500,000. Then it was canceled. I'm just saying. It's all under the law. There's nothing we can criticize for any reason that something strange is going on. It's just weird. I write to 500, I don't close, I cancel. According to the rules, I'm going to give it to someone up to 200, and he'll just happen to propose CZK 199,900 without VAT. But what I'm saying about what's in that study is, what it's worth, what's being used or used in the EET project, we're going to see. And we will certainly discuss that tomorrow. Normally, I'd thank the Minister for answering me if I got the study. Then I won't thank him because he didn't send it to me. But I thank my colleagues from the inspection committee who gave it to me. I am not proposing any resolution on this interpellation. As a matter of fact, I don't suggest that The Chamber of Deputies disagreed because the study is already publicly available. There's no reason for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u39	Thank you. The Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u40	Thank you for the floor. I am so glad that Mr Stanjura is talking about this, because this really is an example of how absurdly our state works. It's absolutely incredible how bureaucrats work, how they have it encoded, how our laws work. In a year and a half - now I'm celebrating two, I don't know if I should celebrate -- I wasn't even able to buy a mobile operator, which you can buy in private in a week or two. I had to cancel the first challenge because there was an old law, there was one offer, so they canceled it. Second contest - complaint against the UOHS, just canceled. And here we're talking about this study, we're talking about the state's income of 18 billion a year in time. And the study cost 190 grand. You're right, Mr. Stanjur. You're right. He had it first... The Financial Administration has decided to make a competition. Then, for some reason, they decided to cancel it. I asked Deputy Secretary Hornochová because the EET project, the one who first told me about it, was the owner of Vítkovice Tours Mr. Honek in 2012. And when I joined the ministry, I said I wanted it, that the authorities were running on some kind of life-speed. And the state works in some way. The House works in some way. And then it was discovered that the Ministry actually said yes, we need the study. And the study cost 190 grand. I thought I gave it to you. I'm so sorry. But I definitely gave it to your coalition partner Kalousek here in public. In the meantime, someone requested the study. A hard-working clerk has blacked out - a big affair too. And when I found out, I asked why you blacked out. Well, because we were back on the law that there was some sort of business secret. We finally figured it out. So we finally got rid of it. And the attention that's been given to it, the absurd fact that we're putting something against the gray economy for the first time here, and it's a small-scale study because it's tiny, 190,000, so we're paying this kind of attention. And wonder for the world, somebody's gonna file a criminal report. Anonymous, of course. Wag the dog. Anonymous. Maybe beat something again. The police are investigating. That we spent money. For a project that's going to cost 18 billion. per year, which reduces VAT from 21 to 15 per cent, etc. So absurd debate! Absurd debate, and I hope we don't go back to that study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u41	Thank you, Minister. Another party to the debate is Mr Koníček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u42	Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, it is a little more complicated than that. You really provided the control committee with the specification of the project with an electronic sales log from BDO version 1.22 of February 2015, which had 186 pages. This week, a study with the same version appeared on the Ministry of Finance's website, but it only has 185 pages. I didn't compare the 185 pages to look for a difference, so you're going to have to ask the Ministry, as you say, that the officials are doing it behind your back, so I'm sure it's just on purpose of the Treasury officials that they're going to give the Audit Committee a study in version 1.22, which has 186 pages, and they're going to post the same study on the Ministry's website, but it's only 185 pages. [[Laughs of some members YES.]] In this study you will learn that, for example, the application of electronic sales records, i.e. The software was supposed to cost 27 miles. according to the study. But in April last year, the General Financial Directorate concluded a contract with the Treasury of the Centre of Shared Services for 41 million. CZK without tax. Minister, if the other data in the study will then be increased in the same proportion, then the explanatory note to the law you presented to us, and some calculation of costs will simply be a housenumer. I'm saying, the study says it's going to cost 27 million, the software, the EET app, the General Financial Directorate has concluded a deal for 41 million. without tax. And look out! The study states that it will be a selected competition, not a negotiated procedure without publication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u43	Thank you. Mr Kučera is next in the debate, then the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u44	Hello, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have such a conciliatory course of action. I, too, have very friendly only two questions and one brief response to my previous speaker. I have now looked at the study that I have, my colleague through Madam President, so I have the uncensored version, the longer one, I do not know which is the origin. However, I would like to ask Minister Babiš more or less two questions. The fact that there is a contradiction between the study and the explanatory memorandum to the House press or the amendment or the e-booking of sales law is quite clear. I think that we will still be discussing this in the course of tomorrow. The contradictions are clear; Mr Koníček pointed them out today. I would like to say that the explanatory note - of course, the information can change over time. I understand what information we had a year ago, and we have other information today. I wouldn't argue with that. However, the explanatory memorandum is relatively within the same time period as the BDO study. So that means there's a mistake. Either in the study or in the explanatory report. That's the first question. Second question: Is it true that BDO is one of the main auditors of Agrofert?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u45	Mr. Finance Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u46	Mr. Kučera didn't fail. I think he's competing with Mr. Laudát under Mr. Kalousek's leadership. I wasn't here yesterday and I was practicing this morning, so I watched your show, so you named my name about four times. And tomorrow will be the third reading again. It's been 1800 minutes. In Germany, the third reading takes 90 minutes. So we're gonna read it over and over again. There's no uncensored study. If you understand a little business and understand it, studies are studies. That's something, some guess, some assumption. And no contracts are made. Because the law hasn't been passed. So it's just - and BDO, if you read the paper, I learned it from the paper, so now Agrofert was changing the auditor, and I think it's Ernst & Young. So Agrofert is still popular. Maybe I'd repeat how you've been knocking Agrofert around here over and over again, and Agrofert's taken 19.6 billion into the public budget over the past nine years. Crowns. And he got 1.9. That's a tenth. Try writing it down so you don't lie permanently. I understand the great interest in Babiš because it's such an alien element here. Mr. Koníček's probably a little busy too, so he spent time and we exchanged some letters about my income from last year. How much income did I have, whether it was a wage, a bonus, as it was all. I am so glad that Mr. Koníček also shows such an interest in my person that it is a great collaboration. So I'm just saying we're gonna give you everything. Come and see. There are no contracts, definitely. Someone cares about those who cheat on taxes so it doesn't work. So it doesn't turn out. That's why you're obstructing. So I'm gonna be so happy, I don't know what you're missing, Mr. Koníček, we're gonna deliver everything. Tomorrow we're reading again, we're gonna spend the whole day here about nothing, we're gonna repeat the lies over and over again, the demagogy, how it's customary here. So if you're still missing something, I'm happy to deliver it, we'll do a presentation, we'll show you everything. I repeat: study 190 thousand. and 18 billion. per year. And we're cutting taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u47	Thank you. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Laudát for a microphone. Mr. Koníček will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u48	Thank you. I'm just technically. I would ask or ask the Minister of Finance to give a factual answer and save his political agony for his newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u49	I will ask Mr. Koníček for a microphone as well as a factual one. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have a problem understanding the speeches made by Minister Babiš. We've all heard it here, and now he's repeated it twice: there's no contract. Minister, I have a contract for the delivery and implementation of the electronic sales log application concluded between the Czech Republic, the General Financial Directorate and the Treasury of the Centre for Shared Services. Closed April 17, 2015 for the 41 million. Crowns. And you're gonna tell the Chamber of Deputies that there's no contract! Is it normal for the Treasury Secretary to lie to the Chamber of Deputies here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u51	The Minister is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u52	It's true, I must have made a bad statement. No external contract is concluded. [[Laughs in the hall.]] This is an internal contract between the institution under the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration. So no external contract based on what you've argued here is closed. I forgot about the one side. If you're worried about that side that you have 186 and the site is 185, we're gonna track down that side of me. If you're saying it's an interpellation, I'm saying it's a fag, not an interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u53	I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. Mr Stanjura has not proposed a resolution, so I am ending this interpelation. We will now proceed to the next interpellation. Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán replied to Ms Jana Fischerová's interview on the way in which the Ministry of Justice supervises the way in which the courts decide on the allocation of the case to individual judges. Interpelation together with the response shall be submitted as a print of 673. I am opening the debate and Mrs Fischerová is reporting to it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u54	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now comment on the written reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Pelikán. I asked on 12 November 2015, as has been said, on a matter which the President has already said, specifically I would have made this clear. This concerns, in particular, the handling of matters at the Regional Court in Ostrava. For the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, I shall sum up in part what I have asked. It arose more or less on the basis of the Government's resolution of September last year, it was Resolution 765, when the Government commented on the proposal of the Regional Court in Ostrava pursuant to Rule 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic to repeal § 160 para. 2 of Act No. 182/2006 Sb., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution, so called. the insolvency law of 23 September 2015, which was brought before the Constitutional Court. I myself have a personal relationship with Ostrava, which is why I have been asked to do a little bit of this. The government in its statement, among other things. Notes: In his text, the navrhovatel points out in several places that the Regional Court in Ostrava distributes incidental disputes without clear rules. It also states that there are de facto two categories of judges, i.e. a judicial department, where one leads the insolvency proceedings themselves and others are called only to resolve incidence disputes, often after quite a long time since their idea of a trial. From the state described, it also concludes that there may be a possibility that insolvency judges deliberately leave some incidence disputes aside from their interest so that the hypothesis of § 160 (2) can subsequently be applied. 2 of the insolvency law concerning the fear of unnecessary delays, and thus the cases were assigned to a department that deals only with disputes of incidence. I declare here that this described condition can certainly be described as defective and violating the fundamental constitutional premises, which is why I asked the Minister in my written interview on a number of things, what is his view on this issue of dealing with these mainly insolvency cases. He answered me extensively, even more than I have taken up the space of written interpelation. I'm just sorry, Minister, as the Minister of Finance said here, that not all the officials are okay at his ministry, everyone is doing well, so I want to tell Minister Pelikán that the first page of your answer is, unfortunately, the rudes that bothered me so much, because when I was mayor and I was writing to someone, I had to be clearly understood with the person who prepared the answer that it had to fit. I'll show you where it was. But the answer. I'll say two things you said in your answer. I agree with them, it is particularly the case that the Minister has limited jurisdiction over the work schedules of individual courts, but he has an obligation to check whether those responsible for the establishment of the work schedule prepare everything in accordance with the legal order, which is the law on courts and judges, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Then, Minister, I also agree with you that there is the competence of the Presidents of the Courts or the President of the Courts after hearing the relevant judicial board to draw up a work schedule. I was wondering what the 2016 work schedule was like and I have the following questions. If you were really interested in the position of the judicial council in Ostrava on the issue. And I have to say, when I looked into it myself, for 2016, the schedule of work didn't admit any changes compared to 2015. There is still a problem with the idea of incidency disputes, where some judges are not given the initial idea, as has already been pointed out by the judicial board. The situation is, in the view of the judicial board, dealt with by increasing the number of insolvency judges or senate while maintaining the number of administration for judges to be redistributed incident disputes and thus increasing the number of incident disputes to be settled by current insolvency judges. Furthermore, the judicial board notes that due to the long-term unsolved situation, there are currently 995 cases for 2015 without action and 1 508 unfinished items are reported in total, which means that significant delays in the handling of these files can be expected. I think that's really something to think about. Come in. Minister, what I am still not satisfied with in your written reply is your statement, so I would like to say that the Government states that it is not possible to accept the argument on that level that, if § 160 para. 2 can establish a practice that leads to unconstitutionality in specific cases and that the law itself is unconstitutional. The government itself admits that the practice at the Regional Court of Ostrava is unconstitutional, not the very provisions of the law. Minister, you are saying that there are new items assigned primarily to Department 1 Cm, 4 Cm, i.e. civilian matters. This is not true, which is also evidenced by the minutes of the judicial board of the Regional Court in Ostrava. The judges don't have any initial ideas for their judicial departments. No files are assigned to these departments according to the work schedule. Simply put, there are 20 judges on the business section, for example, each judge has his own department, which is just different by number 1 Cm, 4 Cm etc. According to the schedule of work, only 10 judges are assigned to matters by rotational method. You're writing 12, so I've got 10 judges checked out. Almost a year later, the President of the Court shall take and order, without any pre-established rules, these matters to be dealt with by the remaining Judges, who shall not be attacked by a file for a whole year according to the work schedule. So new things aren't assigned, but old things are being redistributed that other judges aren't dealing with. All this with the knowledge of the judicial officer, the President, the Vice-President of the Court. This creates a situation that one judge can deal with matters on an ongoing basis because he has an initial idea, which he does not do, and the other judge does not have an initial idea, so he cannot deal with matters on an ongoing basis, but once a year the President, the Vice-President of the Court, selects and redistributes with reference to the provisions of § 160 para. 2 insolvency law files to process which are already at that time almost a year old. [[10.30 hours]] The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 2 was accepted as an exception for cases of major auditions and with a large number of insolvency disputes, not as a rule for the allocation of matters to be settled instead of the work schedule. The Minister claims that there is not a completely random redistribution of the files, but according to the age of pending incidence disputes, but my question is: I wonder, Minister, how does it work, then, when one judge gets to settle a matter older than one year, the other half of the year, the other gets things older than three months. Is it entirely up to the President of the court who chooses, who and what matters will decide? Are there no rules for the subsequent redistribution of files? It is only for the sake of the President of the Court, who - and how many files and to whom he commands to deal according to the provisions of § 160 para. Two insolvency laws? I say that this practice is very dangerous and has no place in the state of law. I'm going to use the citation I'm afraid of, but I'm going to say it here: in totalitarian mode, there's no need to corrupt all the judges. It is sufficient for the regime to ensure that certain cases are decided by certain in quotation marks by reliable judges in order to achieve desirable verdicts on matters on which the political regime has an eminent interest. So much Tomáš Langášek - The right to a legal judge in justice in jeopardy? That was just for the sake of drawing, so that our justice wouldn't end up like that. And now, as much as I wasn't satisfied with your written answer, Minister, I will add. The work schedule is, on the one hand, an instrument for the protection of independent judicial power and, on the other, guarantees the right to a legal judge. And the constitutional principle of a legal judge cannot be circumvented, even if there are grounds for doing so. So, Madam President, I just want to say that... Oh, Mr President, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u55	We switched from meeting management to meeting, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u56	I couldn't help but notice, but now I know. So, Mr President, I am not satisfied with the Minister's written reply and I am curious what else he will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u57	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good morning, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u58	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable part of the House. Unfortunately, the interpelation or oral speech was so long that I don't know if I've memorized everything well. I think so. If not, I apologize in advance. When I start with the technical thing, we actually write to the individual judges with a soft even, which I will teach the relevant worker, and I apologize so much for missing it as quickly as possible in order to answer your question during the examination of the document. Otherwise, as far as the situation is concerned, I think there are some things that need to be said or stressed. The first is to reassure the probably concerned fellow Members, I think it is a problem from the point of view of the judges and the division of work between them, and thus the working conditions of the judges rather than a problem from the point of view of some manipulation and influence of the fairness and independence of the decision-making of individual matters. At least that's how it affects me. I don't want to downplay the problem, but on the other hand, it's the difference in the significance of the problem. Otherwise, it is true that Ostrava, as regards the allocation of insolvency cases and so-called. Incidental matters, which are, for the sake of clarity, cases where someone denies, in particular, the authenticity of the claim entered in the insolvency proceedings, denies that the claim exists, so it is necessary to judge whether it exists, so in Ostrava it actually works quite in an original way. I do not deny this and I do not conceal it, which is due in particular to the person of the Vice-President and also to the President of that court. The Vice-President is quite creative in this regard, and the President does not only tolerate this, but I think he also supports it. At the same time, I confess that I have a problem with this method, as you indicated it here. I can do it, virtually. rather, I must agree. Overall, I believe and believe that the court does not testify to the scope of favour and any non-transparency. This is also the main tenor now gradually presented and with justice discussed so called. White books, i.e. the proposal for a reform of justice, and I am already confronting the opposition, and it is actually a conceptual matter, that transparency, firm rules, it is not right that it is not important that we leave things to the courts, that they know best how to do it, and they need flexibility. And I say, court isn't a company, court has to have firm rules. [[Nesroz. a note from the diaper, laughter. - Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Please continue, Minister.]] We'll still have to have an internal debate. So I agree with what you're saying, and I just have to say that unfortunately, my powers in the work schedule are absolutely minimal, virtually. There are none. I may be sent a schedule of work, but it's being sent to me. So the only thing I have available to me is some informal tools, so there's a potential disciplinary action. And I haven't found the clarity of the matter so far that I dare to file a disciplinary action, because I think you know that the case law of the disciplinary senate is quite conservative, and the case must be very clear so that the disciplinary action has a chance of success. Of course, I'm also waiting for the result of the constitutional complaint. So far, I have no additional report in this regard, because I continue to argue that the very provision, if applied in moderation, is applied, i.e. really in those rather exceptional cases of sudden strain or something, so it is not unconstitutional. [[10.40 hours]] But I have my doubts here repeatedly expressed about the constitutionality of such a procedure, where this provision is applied systematically, even to the extent that some Chambers, a number of Chambers have no idea at all and actually serve only to solve these cases. So let's see how the Constitutional Court decides. We will see how the work schedule can be adapted to such a decision, and I will act accordingly. I'll have that option, eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u59	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. Mrs Fischerová, too. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u60	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the Minister's statement, because I actually listed things that I know are happening at the Regional Court in Ostrava, that he actually gave me the benefit of the doubt. I was also pleased that he said - I say in quotation marks - that the court is not a company. This is also a statement and I believe that when the Constitutional Court's statement is made that we will continue to communicate about this, because I will certainly want to monitor this matter. If I wanted to say that I do not agree with the answer, I see that there are still not enough people in the hall, but I believe that this will not be forgotten and that Minister Pelikán will be what is within his competence, that he will attend to this matter within his remit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u61	I want to ask - are you proposing a resolution to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u62	Based on the presence in the hall, if I suggested I disagree, I know I don't stand a chance of voting. So this-- but you know what? Mr President. I suggest that I disagree completely with this because I am interested in how this matter will be resolved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u63	Within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to vote only on an agreed or disagreeable opinion, not partly disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u64	Yes, I was going to say that I don't agree yet. I disagree with the statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u65	Okay. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and vote on your proposal. Mrs Fischerová proposes, as part of her interview, a vote on a dissenting position with the Minister's reply. I will ask for a moment of patience before my colleagues come from the lobby before I begin the vote. I'm registering the logout request, i.e. I'll check you out. For the new arrivals, I will repeat what we will be voting on. As part of the interpelation, Mrs Pelikán proposes that we vote against the Minister's reply. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the dissenting position. Who's against it? It's a 70-order vote. 95 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 46. This proposal was rejected. Thank you, and I'm done with this interpellation. I'll read the apologies that came to me. Today from 10 to 11 a.m. and from 15 a.m. to the end of the day, Minister Milan Chovanec apologizes on account of urgent work obligations. Furthermore, from 10 to 12 today, for reasons of work, Mr Plzák apologizes. Today, Mr Radim Fiala, on account of his illness, apologizes all day. Also today and tomorrow, for health reasons, Mr Martin Novotný apologizes. I have an apology here, and that is that Mrs Markéta Wernerová does not apologize until 10:30, not 9:00. And also Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes today from the beginning of the meeting to 9.40 for work reasons. There is also an interview for the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, who responded to Ms Jana Fischerová's interpellation in the case of an out-of-court settlement with the dismissed and expelled employees of the Czech Environmental Inspection and in the case of delays in the selection procedure for the Director of the Inspection. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as printing of 674. I am opening the debate and reporting to it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u66	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. In the absence of Minister Brabec, I wish to interrupt this interview because I am interested in interpelling him when he is present in the hall, or at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u67	Okay. So you're suggesting that we interrupt the next meeting, the next interview, to the Minister's presence. It's a proposal I'm gonna have to keep voting on. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this point, as presented, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 71. There are 100 Members and Members registered, for 84, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved, and this interpellation has been interrupted. We're gonna keep going, it's an interview with the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Mr Michal Kučera's interpellation with regard to the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 684 printing. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to Mr Kučer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u68	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, on November 1, 2015, I have interrogated you on the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks. Thank you for your answers, yet I cannot accept them, especially on two points. I mean, they're ignoring the core of the issue I asked you about. One. You claim that the lack of infrastructure for high-speed internet limits the state's ability to provide digital services to the public. I beg to differ with you on this. I am convinced that the public would appreciate it if these digital services provided by the state were finally an opportunity to apply electronically for a ID, register a car from home, or exchange a driver's license. These are very simple tasks that make you have to slowly take a vacation to wait in line at the office. These are tasks for which an electronic form would be sufficient, and you do not need to have a high-speed connection to fill out such an interactive form. He might even need a breathing modem for a telephone line if the service existed. There is no existing or upcoming eGovernment application that would require speeds above 30 Mbps, i.e. an NGA connection. In other words, there are two unrelated problems. The development of NGA networks is only linked to meeting the objectives of the digital agenda, which are aimed at households and improving their broadband coverage, but has nothing to do with eGovernment. If we are in a bad way with the use of eGovernment, high-speed internet will not change that. In fact, I don't even know if you have any idea that last year, that is, during your government, part of the citizens have lost their ability to file fully digital tax returns. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, what kind of services and when you will specifically deploy and how many people will use them. The second question concerns the allocation of subsidies. In your previous answer, I did not find any assurance that the subsidies would not just end with large providers. The information we have on the national plan so far is very concerned that the challenges can be placed on too large a territory, namely that only those who are able to cover such a large area will be eligible for funding, to ensure that half of the current providers are eliminated from the competition and only one company will be preferred to meet such a condition at present. [[10.50 hours]] It is desirable that the challenges respect these specifics of the Czech market, on which there is one large provider controlling a third of the market and then hundreds of small local and regional ones, which have a total of around 50 percent. My second question, Prime Minister, is, therefore, what control mechanisms are you planning to set up for smaller providers to get to the funds, and money does not end with just the same company. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a debate in which the Prime Minister will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u70	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I, in view of the fact that I should be speaking for migration here in ten minutes, will not repeat the whole argument that I made in response to Mr Kučera's written interpelation, and I would rather concentrate on the answers which concern his questions. Firstly, I am convinced that the Czech Republic has been very late in recent years from the point of view of the digitalisation of the state administration. I think there was a mistake when the Ministry of Informatics was abolished and it was incorporated under the Ministry of Interior, because at the time it happened, the eGovernment system took on and began to take on significant delays. There has also been a failure to coordinate information technology activities at individual ministries. If we compare today the scope of electronic services and electronic government as implemented in the Czech Republic with other countries in the European Union, unfortunately, the Czech Republic is one of the last places in terms of the electronicisation of state administration. Some IZIP projects have also helped to do so by failing to do so. The general health insurance company, where there was an attempt to electronize the functioning of the health insurance system, to electronize recipes and the like, but at the same time it was connected with the efforts of a well-defined political group of entrepreneurs to obtain a simple way without a competition contract with the General health insurance company. The entire IZIP case has discredited the electronicisation of Czech health care for a long time and only in the last period is the General Health Insurance Company succeeding in ending this sad chapter in its history. But I don't think we can be discouraged by the bad experiences of previous years. I am glad that our government has adopted conceptual documents that expect work to accelerate in terms of the electronicisation of the state administration. I think that what we need is for there to be a simple document here that allows all citizens of the Czech Republic to be in contact with the state administration in electronic form, or it is about making it available a form of ID that allows such contact without a problem and simply makes it possible. The government's aim is that, in principle, from 2017, they are issued under the same conditions as citizens' IDs, which will allow such communication, electronic communication, with the authorities. As regards the question concerning subsidies for the construction of new generation networks, the question whether the subsidies will end only with large providers, I would like to answer in the following way. The possibility of financial support for the construction of new generation networks and modernisation of existing networks is open to all. In assessing the aid applications received, beneficiaries will be selected according to pre-prepared and business-sector evaluation criteria consulted. The size or investment strength of the applicant should not play a role in these criteria. The individual projects for the areas of white sites in designated locations, in particular, appear to concern in particular the Karlovy Vary Region, the Ústecký Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, are assessed separately and the possible victory of one applicant in one area does not affect the outcome of the selection procedure in the area of the other. The individual evaluation criteria are based on the conditions of the subsidy programme, the PIK operational programme, and have clear rules. The winner is the one who gets the most points in the evaluation to limit any possible subjective support of one of the applicant's evaluators. There are always more assessors. Smaller entities of the type of local operators who would not feel in terms of organizational skills able to secure the whole project can create a trading consortium and go into the grant support competition on behalf of this association. The Ministry of Industry and Trade thus seeks to create such conditions as to ensure that the selection is completely non-discriminatory, that the selection is as transparent as possible, that it is open to anyone who fulfils its conditions. So much to answer the second question that was raised in the Member's interpellation. Let me finish my speech to inform you that, naturally, as Prime Minister, I am very interested in speeding up work on the National Plan for the development of new generation networks. So far, the national plan for the development of new generation networks has been passed through inter-ministerial commentary management. The material has not yet been submitted to the government in such a form that the government can finally approve it, because what is missing is the current data provided by the Czech Telecommunications Authority concerning internet coverage. The completion of the national plan assumes the existence of data that will be obtained from a significant part by geographical data collection in the Czech Telecommunications Authority. The data collection should be completed in June 2016. These data will be used for the completion of the national plan and I assume that the Government of the Czech Republic should deal with the definitive approval of the completed national plan in the middle of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u71	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to go back to the second part of the answer, which was the most important one for me. We as the Czech Republic have an exceptional opportunity to earn 14 billion. CZK of support to expand high-speed internet across the Czech Republic so that the Czech Republic can be linked to the emerging economy in all its regions so that growth in these regions is encouraged so that citizens do not leave these regions. And since I have information, it is at this stage that the possibility has been here for almost a year, but the year of potential growth, the year of possible development, the year of potential support for the regions has been lost by two ministries of your government, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of the Interior arguing who will manage, distribute and invest these huge billions. I would very much like to hear from you here assurances that this amount will not fall, that the Czech Republic will actually use this unique option from the European Union and the 14 billion plus national participation in investing in the development of high-speed Internet in the Czech Republic. And I would also like to hear the horizon in which it will succeed, because it is essential for regions to be competitive so that young people do not leave these regions, which is important for the quality survival of these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he wants to respond. [[It's no longer possible.]] At this point, it's 11 o'clock, so, yes, that's right, but I had to keep time. That means, eleven o'clock, I have to interrupt this interpelration due to time, because the interpelations are within eleven o'clock. Thank you and I note that, for today, we have finished discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members. Before I open the negotiations, I'll read the apologies that came to me. Today, from 10.30 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Faltýnek apologizes, from 16 o'clock to the end of the day, for the purpose of accepting a foreign visit, Mrs Ivana Dobešová apologises, and today from 9 to 11.15 for working reasons, Mr David Kasal apologises. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now proceed with the firmly classified point 203 Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis, and then we should address the points from the second and first reading block. In addition, where appropriate, points from the report block, suggestions and more. We'll discuss paragraph 202 this afternoon, which is Oral Interpellation. Prime Minister Sklenák shall report with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u74	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to come up with a proposal to amend the agenda for the meeting. Yesterday we did not have time to discuss the last fixed item, paragraph 57, which is the draft social services law, print 689. This is a proposal which increases the contribution to care, and I think that this proposal has great support across the House and I dare suggest its firm inclusion for next Tuesday as the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-21-ps2013-039-03-001-201.u75	Thank you and I ask if anyone else has a proposal to adjust the agenda for the meeting. I don't see anyone. I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Once again, I will repeat the proposal that has been tabled here, which means to include point 57, the Social Services Act, which increases the contribution to care, for next Tuesday as the first point firmly placed. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal as presented, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 72. 117 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 116, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Since I do not see any other proposals, in which case we will proceed to the point that is firmly placed, and this is
