ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u1	2. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 /German press 921/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the present proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 was approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament at first reading. The draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me now to thank all the gessional committees for discussing the various chapters of the State budget and the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of the documents for the second reading. I assume that amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting. In this context, I would like to point out that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 146 billion. CZK contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the Act on the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve, which amounts to 0,3 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. I shall communicate my opinion on the proposed amendments at the third reading. For amendments to reduce the expenditure of the chapter State Debt, I will express my fundamental opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u3	Thank you, too. By his decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was served as the House Press 921/3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to resolution No. 569 of 23 November 2016 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017. I would just like to remind you, for the record, that this is a corrected text. You originally got press 921/2, but there was an administrative error for which I apologize, and you have a new press, 921/3, from which I will quote, that is the correct resolution. Although the mistake wasn't entirely relevant, but we fixed it. So the resolution of the budget committee of the 50th meeting of 23 November 2016 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017, House press 921: After the opening word of the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, the report of the Chairman of the Committee of Mr Václav Votava and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discussed all the chapters assigned to them and notes that all the committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2017 as ordered by the Chamber of Deputies by their resolution No. 1403 of 26 October this year, and they adopted their resolutions on them with the exception of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u5	I'm gonna ask you, colleagues, and this time in the right side of the hall, to keep it down. We're talking about the state budget, it's a crucial point that we're going to discuss, so I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u6	They therefore adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which discussed Chapter 304, the Office of the Government and did not adopt the resolution on the chapter, the Committee on Social Policy, which discussed Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the resolution on the chapter was also not adopted. Second, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2017, the House press 921, and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic adopt the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2017 under the House press 921 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017, as amended by the approved amendments in Annexes I and II to this resolution." The Committee on Budgets also adopted the following accompanying resolutions, namely the draft budget committee: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that within the framework of the State Budget Chapter 398, the General Treasury under the Government Budget Reserve item should provide funds up to 400 million for 2017. CZK, to cover any eligible liabilities, including additional costs arising from possible legal proceedings and late payment charges for regional cohesion councils in connection with the cessation of their activities. Further, it calls on the Government, in agreement with regional representations, to submit a proposal to the Committee on Budgets by 1 March 2017 for a solution to settle the legitimate obligations arising from previous decisions of the Regional Councils of the Cohesion Regions. [[9.30 hours]] It also adopted an accompanying resolution on the basis of a proposal from the Economic Committee that the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government increase budgetary resources and concentrate individual resources on economic diplomacy. It also adopted a draft accompanying resolution on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports that the Chamber of Deputies supports the gradual increase in the expenditure of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports intended primarily for predictable and transparent financing of regional education as well as for public schools in order to ensure stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education and recommends the government to take into account the above recommendations in the expenditure frameworks. The second resolution repeatedly draws attention to the low number of posts in the Czech Technical Agency, which is dealt with by a high rate of concluded employment agreements and labour agreements, and recommends that the Government address this situation by increasing the number of posts without increasing the budget of the chapter. That was therefore the accompanying resolutions which it adopted and, respectively, were identified by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets, of course, empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have also done. The amendments to the text section of the draft law on the State Budget and the draft State Budget for 2017 are annexed to the resolution. The tables therefore contain the amendments adopted, which have been agreed by the Committee on Budgets, which have emerged from the various committees of the Chamber of Deputies. There is also a table on the amendments adopted, as submitted by individual Members, not only by Members of the Budget Committee but also by other Members from the House, which relate to various changes in the various chapters of the budget of the Czech Republic. For information, amendments to the draft State Budget Act which the Committee has not adopted are also included. Of course, these proposals - without telling anyone - can identify with them and can be proposed again by any Member. I would just like to point out that if Members are to submit amendments to the state budget at second reading today, the amendment they are proposing needs to be offset. That means if I want to add some crown, I have to take some crown from somewhere. And this is possible, of course, by moving between chapters or even within chapters. Perhaps even more notice, because such a possible object of the interests of Members is always the General Treasury. There are a number of items in the general treasury administration, so it cannot only be said against the General Treasury administration that I want to take the money from the General Treasury, but I have to determine from which item the General Treasury administration. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government's budgetary reserve, which sometimes also becomes the object of Members' raid - in good terms, of course - is not possible to discuss the government's budgetary reserve, because its amount is given directly by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u7	Thank you. I would therefore like to ask, Mr rapporteur. If the amendment is not as you have just said it, will it be unvoting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u8	Then, of course, it's unvoting. If it is not balanced as I said it will be, or it will be vaguely determined, where the Member wants to take it - of course, to improve other things, another chapter - then it is unvoteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u9	Thank you. I considered it important that this be heard before the debate opened. Today from 9am to 10pm, Mrs. Jana Lorencová apologizes. I am opening up a detailed debate on the draft law, in which I record 16 Members of Parliament. Mrs Černochová will be the first to speak, Mr Dolejš will be prepared, then Mr Ondráček and others. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which I registered under number 5337 and which concerns the reduction of the indicator of support for the agrifood complex in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture by 5 billion. Crowns. I propose reducing the indicator of other environmental issues in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment by 2 billion. Crowns. I propose to reduce the non-investment transfer indicator by 3 billion to non-investment enterprises, legal entities in Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for 2017. Crowns. In Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, I propose to increase the expenditure block of providing strategic intelligence to the PVS 504 0000000 - hopefully it is sufficiently determined. It is a spending circuit to ensure the activity and development of the capabilities of Military Intelligence PVS 504 0020000, namely by 1 billion. CZK for investments in cyber security. Furthermore, in the same chapter, I propose to increase the expenditure block securing the defence of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Army of the Czech Republic. It's PVS 501 0000000. The expenditure circuit ensures the activity and development of combat forces and combat support forces PVS 501 0020000 by 9 billion. CZK to achieve operational capabilities and maintain deployed units for ground fighting forces and combat support forces according to alliance standards. Dear colleagues, what makes me say that? It leads me to believe that according to the recommendation of the North Atlantic Alliance, the Czech Republic should issue 2% of gross domestic product per year in defence. But it never got to that level, despite strong political proclamations. This is one of the causes of internal debt for modernisation in infrastructure and material stocks of the armed forces, amounting to almost 100 billion. CZK, with this debt increasing every year. Both the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister have repeatedly declared that they want to increase defensive spending to at least 1,4% of GDP by 2020 and to an alliance commitment of 2% of GDP by 2025. The government's draft budget for next year, however, does not count on this item at all - and now listen to me - 1.08 GDP. That is why I dare to propose those amendments. You know, it's striking that the economy is growing, yet defense spending doesn't reach levels that should be achieved either as a result of the economic situation or as a result of the Ministry's inability to complete the acquisition process. We should therefore send a clear signal as the Czech Republic, whether to the European Union or to the North Atlantic Alliance, that we are allies that can be counted on. [[9.40 hours]] I guess we don't have to tell each other that we're witnessing a deteriorating security situation in the south and east of our area of interest. Here I would also recall the fact that the current government more than two years ago despised an agreement with the opposition, so that all the democratic parties represented in Parliament would agree on an amount that would actually declare across different political bodies that defence spending would be constant and that we would be at a shorter rate of 2% of GDP. Unfortunately, subsequently, the government coalition, and I know it wasn't Babiš's fault, but that the one who backed out was Prime Minister Sobotka, then the government coalition concluded its own agreement that by 2020, the state would issue funds of 1,4 percent of GDP in defence. However, the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2017 does not correspond to this commitment either. Like I said, it's 1.08. Minister of Finance Babiš visited our soldiers several times. He also declared the will of his department to increase expenses in defense. Now it's about going from words to actions. And even after the announcements made yesterday by Minister Stropnický, Prime Minister Sobotka, last but not least by President Zeman, who also said that more funds should be invested in defence, so I think there should be nothing to prevent the government coalition from supporting this amendment of mine. Unfortunately, even in the explanatory memorandum of the Ministry of Defence's chapter notebook, the government itself admits that it does not fulfil its obligation to the coalition agreement that it does not meet even 1.4 percent of GDP. We are therefore experiencing a relatively rare period when the third budget is already trying to offer you and lends you a helping hand in that we are ready to vote for an increase in defense spending, unlike in recent years, when there have been major struggles especially with the left part of the political spectrum about why we should invest funds in defence and cut them off in health care or education. The defense was always something that was at the edge of our interest. Today we can all say unfortunately. But the economic situation, even the security situation, is different. And so I say, when else than now. Anyone but us. For these reasons, and in particular in view of the deterioration of the security situation in the world, but also in view of the increased emphasis on enforcement of alliance commitments from Member States... I'm sure you've noticed, I couldn't help but notice, a statement of candidates for the President of the United States. You know the way President Donald Trump spoke about the black passengers of some of the alliance countries. We are aware, as the Czech Republic, that the demands for states to contribute at least the amount that results from the Washington Convention will be there. By the way, yesterday, I suspect it was Latvia or Estonia, I apologize, in any case, one of the Baltic countries that approved the budget yesterday, and actually reached 1.8 percent of GDP. It is a disgrace to our country that the budget for 2017 is expected to amount to 1.07. So I'm asking you all to re-evaluate this item. If you were to transfer the 10 billion I proposed here in the amendment, as I say, we would achieve - Minister of Finance - at least 1,3%. 1,3% of GDP! We would be closer to your coalition commitment to this government's coalition commitment to achieving 1.4 percent of GDP by 2020. What's the military supposed to use the funds for? I think the army knows very well what it would use these funds for. I propose that one billion of these funds be used for key investments in cyber security. It's a subject that bends from morning to evening. Yesterday we discussed this in connection with the Military Intelligence Act. Nine billion could then be used to achieve operational capabilities and maintain deployed units for ground combat forces and combat support forces according to alliance standards. In particular, it is a matter of speeding up the completion of the most necessary modernisation projects. These clearly include supplementing the condition of wheeled armored vehicles with a view to their availability in case of failures or temporary decommissioning. Perhaps I would recommend to the Minister of Finance that he visit some of the bases on which there are unusable pandurs. And if the process is really reaching out so much that thanks to service contracts that have already been concluded by the Ministry of Defence under the direction of Minister Stropnický, they are unable to get repairs to take place in the order of weeks, but those pandurs are shut down for four months, six months, something is wrong. And here, of course, the old-fashioned technique has to be changed and it has to be repaired, of course. I could also talk about the air force, when after eight years of being in operation, they are going to audit repairs of the CASA aircraft. We know they're flying to Sinai on an MFO mission. We also know that this is one of the few missions where the Czech Republic is getting its funds back into the budget for this mission. I wonder -- and there's no Secretary of Defense here to ask him -- if we can't restore our aerospace capabilities by repairing those planes, who's going to fly the MFO. Are we able to secure all the commitments that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, have committed ourselves to by our vote from the summer of this year when we have longed the missions for another two years? I don't want to keep you, I know there's a lot of admissions. There are a lot of problems in the Army of the Czech Republic. And I think, according to the statements made by Chief General Staff and Secretary of Defense Stropnický, that they would also like to achieve an increase in the number of soldiers so that we have over 30,000 of them, I completely agree with that, it's okay. But for that, you're gonna need more money just for their basic equipment. And unfortunately, the funds are not available in our budget. So let us vote this amendment very nicely to achieve our commitments, whether alliances, but also to achieve our own defence as the Czech Republic and to make it clear to the Army of the Czech Republic that we are serious about the acquisition processes. Yesterday I also spoke of the fact that I find it not very happy that, at the end of each year before the next financial year, the army is becoming a petitioner. As a petitioner, when he asks for money and prays for one billion or one and a half billion more. If we look in neighbouring countries at the way this is treated by our neighbouring countries, I will mention Poland, so in the legislation, directly in defence spending, they have determined the budgetary framework they are holding up and according to which they are actually achieving the 2% of GDP. [[9.50 hours]] I would like to receive support in this House from all of you across the political spectrum to prepare such legislation together. I don't know if it's meant to be, and if we're going to bend the constitutional law, or if we're going to change the law 222, or if we're going to create a new law, like the Polák have. They have a really separate law, but I think that would be a solution. It would be a solution because the army of acquisition processes could trigger and it would know that if it competed for two years, it would compete in the sweat of the face that the next four years, one framework of one electoral term, would have covered the funds that would be spent each year in the acquisition process in the form of some advance payments. Because that's actually how you start the acquisition process when you don't know if you're gonna get the money for it next year, it's very complicated. We know it not only from the Army of the Czech Republic or from defense, we know it from all resorts. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior may have the same problems. So much for my one amendment concerning the addition of funds to the Ministry of Defence. My second request to colleagues and colleagues is, and I sign up for amendment under No. 5316, where it is proposed to reduce the specific expenditure indicator for contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, it is chapter No. 306 Ministry of Foreign Affairs, out of 1 billion. 957 miles. 792 thousand. CZK 981 for the amount of CZK 1 billion. 927 miles. 597 thousand. 981 kroner. It's a 30-mile reduction. 195 thousand. Crowns. At the same time, I propose to include this same amount in the expenditure of chapter No. 334 Ministry of Culture and raise the expenditure of this chapter by the same amount of 30 million. 195 thousand. So pick up in chapter number one of the state budget. 306 30 miles. 195 thousand. and put them in Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, the same amount. Why do I suggest this? The proposed amendment reduces the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on contributions to international organisations. The amount is in dollars, but it's also converted into Czech crowns, so it's 30 miles. 195 thousand, which was budgeted in the draft state budget for next year as a contribution from the United Nations Organisation for Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO. UNESCO has repeatedly become the subject of politicization in recent years, and its name and credit have been used to spread anti-Israeli propaganda. In her resolutions, the Executive Council of UNESCO repeatedly denied Jewish but also Christian ties to the Temple Mountain, the Wall in Jerusalem, and other holy places in Jerusalem. A similar perverse opinion was subsequently adopted by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. It is therefore more than obvious that this organisation, through its bodies, goes beyond an impartial and peaceful international authority that should not interfere with international issues. She's interfering with them more and more. The Czech Republic joins the State of Israel for many years of friendship, an alliance confirmed by a number of contractual documents. By the way, if I'm right and remember it well from my recent visit to Israel, I suspect it's Israel's third largest export. Thus, supporting the State of Israel and its historical claims is traditionally one of the issues on which there is broad political agreement in our country. This was also seen in the vote on the resolution that I proposed as a response to the crazy procedure and the UNESCO position. It was 19 October 2016 when the Lower House expressed its fundamental opposition to one of the aforementioned resolutions of this Executive Board and called on the Czech Government to use all available means to express the negative opinion of the Czech Republic on this resolution. I suppose it was happening at all levels. In accordance with this resolution, stopping the regular contribution of UNESCO is one of the possible ways to give political - and we are legislative power, we are politicians - clearly demonstrate that the current direction of this organisation is very worrying for us and that its politicalization is unacceptable for our country, especially on the issue of Israeli-Palestinian relations and the situation in the Middle East, whose assessment, with all due respect for UNESCO, is in no way appropriate. The Czech Republic was one of the few countries that gave a clear and unambiguous opinion on this issue, and our Israeli partners were very positive about it. At present, when our country has neither UNESCO nor its representative in the above mentioned bodies, because it is actually chosen in a different scenario than that for each country to have permanent representation there, unfortunately there are not many ways for us to say loudly that we do not agree with something, and therefore the abolition of our contribution to the UNESCO budget is one of the possible methods. The amendment would transfer appropriations to budget chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture. My intention is for these funds to be used, and I am done, within this chapter to support projects that resemble Holocaust victims, such as the Memorial of Silence in Bubny, the restoration of monuments related to this infamous historical era. In Prague 2, we had a famous Vinohrady Synagogue, whose tower lit up on February 14, 1945, and unfortunately, the communist regime in the 1950s, which was not too favorable to sacral constructions, had it demolished and praised God instead of it built us unity, but school. So the restoration of monuments related to this infamous historical era, the creation of related educational programs, publications, audiovisual works or other works. Since the spread of anti-Semitism is one of the negative aspects arising from the current UNESCO policy, increased support for projects that resemble victims and the horrors of the Holocaust and its victims - I consider this education not symbolic, but very necessary, and I think that if we should leave some messages to the young generation, it is precisely that these horrors should not be forgotten and that there are enough teaching aids in schools to point to this downside of our history so that it doesn't happen that someone will be there for us, the next generation will be someone in 20, 30 years to claim that the Holocaust didn't exist. Maybe I won't live to see it, but I'd hate for the next generation to live to see it. So for this reason, I think it would be much more effective than supporting a politicized UNESCO organisation to provide these funds to the Ministry of Culture for the purpose of spreading awareness on these issues. I don't know what the matter is with financing the Memorial of Silence in Bubny, but if it doesn't get there - the Minister of Culture isn't here, we're discussing the budget, and there are ministers here again, like, into the mariah. [[Minister Babiš: We work on Drums.]] Thank you, so if I can also ask for the support of this proposal, I think that it would really be greatly appreciated by both the public in the Czech Republic and our long-term ally in the Middle East of Israel, and it would again be a gesture of our country that we do not want policy in these international organizations to shift from that virtuous aid to the restoration of cultural heritage into dealing with accounts in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u11	Thank you, too. I'll read the apology I received. From 14.30 to 16.00, Mr Josef Kott apologizes for reasons of work, from 10.00 to 11.30 apologises for reasons of work to Mr Ivan Gabal and from 9.40 a.m. to 11.30 apologizes to Mr Ludvík Hovorka on account of his participation in meetings outside the House building. President Stanjura is now registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u12	Good morning, this is my first second reading performance, then I have one more where I will present concrete proposals to the Citizen's Democratic Party for savings of CZK 30 billion. I will just repeat the basic position that we have presented here at first reading, that the budget is poorly prepared, there is an unnecessary deficit, which does not correspond to our economic situation. Probably tomorrow, the Minister of Finance will present the Treasury's implementation of the state budget in the first 11 months. I expect there to be a surplus, of course, I have no information, only about the 20th, because we as members of the budget committee receive the basic information after every decade, so we can all clearly verify that there is no reason for the budget to be so losing. And it is not only the opinion of the opposition, it is not just the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party, it is also the opinion of the Minister of Finance. You must have noticed, like me, his media appearance, that if he could draw up the budget himself and not have to look back on his coalition partners, especially the Social Democrats, but at the same time he says that third-party members, KDU-ČSL, would be able to keep the budget at least balanced. There is no reason not to believe the Minister of Finance's position. But so it wouldn't be so easy that it wasn't just that kind of talk, I'd spare it, I'd make a balanced budget, but the bad guys, the other guys don't let me do it, but I'd do it to a good manager. So I want to call on him to tell us in the second reading debate where he personally sees a savings of 60 billion. Since this is simply said in one sentence, I would be in favour of a balanced budget, but we have quite extensive material, it has hundreds of pages-- and, Minister, I would like to invite you through the Vice-President to introduce us to the 60 billion. If you had the authority and didn't have to look back on those who like to spend as much as you say, that is. Social Democrats, and I agree with you on this point. That's not a criticism of your opinion. And I think that corresponds to the reality that, in particular, the Social Democrats are pushing for a constant increase in spending. But why don't you tell us, as Finance Minister, who has the most information, who has the largest budget machine available, where you personally would see the 60 billion. Specifically. In which chapters. Because if you don't, then your statement on how you would draw up a balanced budget is just a political declaration without specific content. You don't have to react immediately, you can use your boyfriend on the phone, but it would be nice if you said it in the second reading. At the end of the debate, I will present our proposal to save 30 billion. In specific items, in specific amounts. It's 50 percent less than you see in that budget, and we're happy to be inspired, and so the potential savings can be higher, in your opinion. I understand that you cannot present this as a Member, as you are about to do with another bill, and that there is such a thing as a coalition treaty and a majority opinion of the government. So I am not calling you to put this before the Chamber of Deputies to vote, because if we take seriously and we should take seriously the political statements of individual political parties to the budget, this proposal would have a relatively high chance of reducing expenditure by 60 billion. To the point that it can no longer be done, that we already have approved parameters, I have to say that it is true, but we can simply reduce the cost of running the state debt. That means that the savings money can be used to redeem the state's debt. There is no doubt that this is possible, except for the majority opinion of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies. So, quite simply, if you want us to believe that you personally would like to push for a balanced budget next year, then show us the 60 billion. And if you find the courage to make an amendment, I say for our club that we will support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u13	Thank you. We will continue the debate in proper applications. Mr Dolejš will now appear and Mr Ondráček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u14	Dear Vice-President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, allow me to sign up for House document No. 5329 concerning the proposal for an accompanying resolution to the Chamber of Deputies on the draft State Budget for 2017. You have detailed reasons for this proposal in the relevant document, but I will try to comment briefly on this proposal. This is a recommendation to the Government of the Czech Republic to unite state investment programmes aimed at the development of infrastructure and regional education from 2018. At this point, we have two of these programmes in the state budget. One is under the Ministry of Education, the other is under the General Treasury, i.e. under the Ministry of Finance. In 2014 The Ministry of Finance opened the programme for the construction of regional schools, and I was actually also in the framework of the debate and final words of Minister Babiš at first reading inspired by this proposal, because the Minister of Finance himself told us that this measure, this programme, is not in the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I agree with this because it is not a system solution, this issue is factually the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. This has its programme, which works very well, and I therefore consider it non-discriminatory that the practice that was introduced in 2014, i.e. that there are more or less two funds in two departments, so I consider it wrong for this to continue. The Ministry of Education has teams of experts at its disposal, unlike the Ministry of Finance, and I think that just from 2018, these two programmes should be merged and should be under the Ministry of Education. This measure will, of course, ease the Minister of Finance and will be able to engage in other activities, not only within the Ministry, but also within his business activities, because he has a lot to do, and at the same time a number of rumors and arguments will be scattered that, more or less, the programme that the Ministry of Finance has is the kind of subsidy bear of the Minister of Finance who promises to grant individual schools as part of his trips to the regions. So I would like to ask you to support this motion for an accompanying resolution in the third reading, to support the transparency and conceptuality of the solution of grant flows in the investment sector to education and to make it easier for the Minister of Finance, who has a really, really big deal. So I believe we'll get back to that in the context of the other debates. However, I would like to emphasise one more thing. I originally considered that I would have prepared an amendment already for this budget in order to merge it next year, but the Ministry of Finance has already announced the programme, cities and municipalities are asking for subsidies from the programme under the Ministry of Finance, and I consider it incorrect for us to be in the process now. It would be particularly incorrect for those applicants, cities and municipalities. So that's why I'm suggesting that the government doesn't actually deal with this until 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Ondráček to speak, Mr Bendl will be prepared, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am here signing up for House document 5222, which I would like to amend the draft state budget as mentioned in two chapters, namely Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior and Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The proposed changes in both chapters of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 are based on specific priorities that I would expect the Czech Government to have for 2017. Here I partly follow up on the previous speaker, Jana Černochová, who is just leaving, who mentioned priorities on the issues of the Army of the Czech Republic. I have long been dealing with internal security issues, and therefore I am interested in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, specifically members of security forces, police officers and firefighters. That is not to say that I would not also be interested in customs or prison police and judicial guards. In the past, the government has already responded to a worsening security situation and approved an increase in the number of police officers by about 4,000. tables, which, however, spread out in recruitment for a long period of five years. In a situation where the security situation in Europe is proving to be significantly worse, and further security developments are difficult to predict - and today relatively large police exercises are under way in the West Bohemia region, where police officers are trying to reinstate controls at border crossings, I note, only controls, not security of national borders, so the Ministry of the Interior is probably expecting if migrants cross the border to drive cars... Well, they came to Europe on foot, maybe they already got social benefits in Germany so much that they bought a car. I think they'll go over the green light, which isn't guarded anyway, and in a long time, they won't be... So the security situation is that we should respond adequately to it and be prepared for it. Police and firefighters, as well as other security forces, have long been underpaid. I was talking about salary here. I asked the Prime Minister to answer questions in writing. Today, virtually. Yesterday he responded to my interview, so we'll discuss it some Thursday after New Year's, if the Prime Minister ever arrives at the interview because my colleagues from the KSČM have been waiting seven months for his presence, so maybe he will last until the end of the election period to be hidden and mysterious. So it's just the paychecks. But the real decline in wages for police officers is still ongoing. Although there was a gradual return percentage by percentage of what was taken from the period of Kalouskův-Nečasův government, but the decline in real wages is still ongoing. And being a member of the security forces is almost a month's economic struggle for survival. Cops and firefighters need to be properly rewarded for their service, even according to the level of risk they take in the performance of the service. This applies, of course, to the civilian staff of these security forces. In addition, there is a Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which has long shown the results of its activities, which do not correspond in quantity or quality to the expenditure associated with them. It is therefore a question of whether we need this office in such a staffing capacity in 2017, and therefore expenditures which are virtually identical to the budget chapter 358 of the Constitutional Court in wage expenditure. 50 historians work at the Institute, but alongside these ÚSTR people, the Institute for Contemporary History and the Institute of the Academy of Sciences also works. Everyone's researching and searching for the same thing. The question is also whether the proposed capital expenditure on the insulation of the building is sufficiently justified. They are quite debatable from my point of view, and it is a question of whether it is even useful to carry out such an investment. If we evaluate my proposal only in terms of the legitimate priorities of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and we do not interfere with who and from where this proposal is submitted, nothing should prevent us from trying to ensure a fundamental human right to security here. I therefore believe that the proposal, which I will now say specifically in figures, could be adopted. I suggest that Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior add 7 million to the cross-cutting indicators for the salaries of employees in employment except for staff in employment. CZK, for salaries of staff of security forces and armed forces in service of 80 million. CZK and the salaries of employees in service places under the Civil Service Act 3 million. Crowns. So together, it's 90 miles. Crowns. And as has been said, if we want to add somewhere, we need to reduce somewhere, and I mentioned that it would be from Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. So here I would take 35 million out of the binding indicators on employees' salaries and other payments for the work done. CZK, salaries of employees in employment other than employees in employment places minus 10 million. CZK, salaries of employees in service places under the Civil Service Act minus 5 million. CZK, which is a total of millions of 50. And from the capital expenditure of registered EDS/SMVS for the entire 40 million. Crowns. After the sum of chapter 355 minus 90 miles. Crowns. I shall repeat again what my previous speaker Jana Černochová said. Any other time, if not now, who else, if not us. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to you how you stand up to internal security issues, and whether the security forces and their salary assessment will be a priority for you... Well, it's definitely not a priority. But whether their service income will be increased by the few crowns I propose. Thank you for your attention. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. We will therefore continue the debate. Now, Mr Bendl, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, let me also say a few words about some parts of the state budget, especially the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is marked by a series of perhaps unnecessary expenditures during economic growth. And maybe the Minister of Finance, if he hears the call from his colleague Zbyněk Stanjura, could definitely touch it, because in a number of cases he invests in things that, I don't think, are absolutely necessary, rather a sort of election bear grizzly. In ancient times, it was discussed here whether an MP could enforce the support of the school in his residence in the state budget, etc. It's been eliminated, things like this don't happen here. But they happen in different chapters. And one of those chapters where a grizzly bear like this is definitely a chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[10.20 hours]] What must be said - the state budget, without necessarily needing it at this time, continues to drain its organisations. In particular, it vacuums the forests of the Czech Republic with a sum of 3 billion. CZK, which it takes from the profits of this state enterprise to improve its state budget. Let me just remind you that in 2016 you pulled 6.6 billion out of the Forests of the Czech Republic, in 2015 8.2 billion, in 2014 6.5 billion, which was all money that was accumulated by the previous years. So the amount is greater than or almost 25 billion today. The crown was pulled out of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Whether it's effective or not, I think you'll answer your own questions. In short, it only improves the state budget, which, as the Finance Minister says, is in very good shape and is getting better. It is a pity that this is also at the expense of the development of possible Forests of the Czech Republic, possibly other organizations. What I am sorry about is that I did not find anywhere in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture expenditure on prevention of flood prevention measures, which last year were at 800 million. The crown, and now it's zero. I would like to hear from the Minister of Agriculture that such funding for these measures will continue and that it will cover this perhaps from other means that I have not found. I do not think that we should stop in this regard, just as we should not cease to be prepared for possible emergencies that are unfortunately happening in agriculture, and these are not only floods, but they are droughts, and the solution to such emergencies in my deep conviction must also be outlined in the draft budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. What is fatally wrong from my point of view, and we have been talking about it for a long time, and government MPs say it as well as opposition, that we need to pay attention to water management. That management in the field of water management should be encouraged. And in this respect, it is evident that the words break up with actions, as their support for water management support programmes is falling from 1.3 billion. CZK 0.5 billion last year. Crowns. From the point of view of supporting the muddying of ponds and small water areas, the amount remains 200 million. CZK, which is absolutely inadequate. On the other hand, it begins The question is whether this is the right thing to do. You'll probably argue that when the Minister of Agriculture wants to buy tractors and agricultural machinery for 50 miles. CZK for secondary schools, that if the schools don't do it and the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Finance doesn't do it, then let the Ministry of Agriculture do it. I am not deeply convinced that this is a system approach. This does not take the opportunity for schools to modernize their equipment to get to it. But if it's supposed to be an MZ just because it's a tractor, I'm not quite sure. Rather, I think that the minister, either the government as a whole, or rather the Ministry of Education, should agree on how he will support the area of apprentice education, which may be concerned with agriculture, the industry, other areas. There I am not sure that these funds are to go from the Ministry of Education, and rather I think that they should go from the Ministry of Education and that the Ministry of Education should certainly be involved in this matter in cooperation with the regions that are set up by the various secondary schools, they must submit school concepts by law and therefore indicate the direction in which they represent the development of the various areas of secondary schools. Once again, there's a disease fund at a level of about 600 miles. Crowns. It would probably also be worth looking at the efficiency of the spent resources in this area, because it does not seem like a negative exchange rate could be reversed particularly in the area of promoting pork production, where the disease fund is going a lot. It is now back billions of crowns that we have invested in this area. It would probably be good to know to what extent we are effective in this, if the trend fails to change significantly, and yet we are spending such huge funds there. What struck me is a billion more administrative expenses in the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. I'd like the Minister to see if he can explain why that is. Why does it have to be one billion extra from year to year? Where such a matter emerged in the middle of the financial period drawing on European funds and so on. When I was talking about a grizzly bear, I can't, even if it's perhaps a detail for one of you - certainly for the finance minister - but it's a big policy. The moment we set up new grant funds, e.g. investment transfers to churches and religious companies in the area of MZ, or we increase, I call this chapel subsidies we talked about last year, the previous year, the previous year, the previous year - these are funds that should be invested from the area perhaps by the Ministry of Local Development, but rather from here certainly from the budget of regions, towns and municipalities. Because what municipalities can do is certainly investing in repairing a small chapel far more than investing in roads, pavements, etc., there need much more money. And concentrate the money here, which is definitely a bigger priority at the moment in terms of the development of municipalities than the fact that we're going to fix the chapel for them, I hope, at least, there's no doubt. Unfortunately, and I will say this in another chapter, simply supporting the state towards the municipalities and their transport infrastructure is absolutely inadequate, but here money is being spent on one side and on the other side. We've already got 140 miles. CZK support for non-profit organizations, which is more than double in three years. And I'm saying it's more of an election bear than an efficient spending of money. Let's give the money, if the state wants to distribute it this way, so let's give it to the regions in the budgetary determination of taxes or municipalities, and we'll do a lot better than when the Minister of Agriculture distributes it. By the way, I will certainly ask him to present to me how the MZ decided in the years before and on the basis of which criteria it was done. I will definitely want to hear what funds have been allocated to support non-profit organisations in 2016, 2015, 2014. In what volume and according to which rules. Who decided and who might have signed it. The specific chapter is a chapter on the number of civil servants in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You may remember that the Prime Minister here defended the need to increase the number of civil servants at the State Land Office, that otherwise those agendas would not have handled it, etc. However, it turns out that it was more of a chick, because inside the resort The Ministry is transferring the number of officials in individual contribution organisations as well as in the Ministry of Finance, and this is happening at the expense of the number of employees of the STU, who were previously claimed not to be able to do so without so many employees. And so it turns out that it is possible in any case. Who's obviously unpopular, that's the stud area. I think if you look at the budgets of Pisek or Plumach, that's where the performances of studs go up from the point of view of how they get their money. But the D.O.D. dissolves what they get in compulsory wage increases. And that there would be some strong support -- I almost feel like there's some kind of personal grudge. But let anyone who's familiar with the problem make up their own mind. [[10.30 hours]] What I think and perhaps it would be worth at least at the level of the agricultural committee to discuss the budgets of organisations that are not in the chapter. The Department of Agriculture is managing them, but the citizen will not know anything about it in the debate we're debating about the state budget. I am thinking of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the water catchment area, simply organizations that govern citizens by billions of dollars, but we do not discuss them within the state budget. And it would probably be worth knowing how it works there, how the funds are spent, because - I know it may be marginal for the finance minister again, but when the State Land Office needs one million crowns to cater for a year, I'm not quite sure if that's an adequate amount. And when I looked, and now I'm going to go free to the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is very interesting about what a mess there is. And I'm sorry for the expression, but I haven't seen it yet to have the Ministry present to you, for example, the combined expenses and revenues of their contribution organizations put together in a single table. That's completely -- that's a nonsense I haven't experienced, and it's still going to be quite normal for the Minister for Regional Development. It's okay, right? We're giving credit organizations, so you can sort of figure out what kind of credit organization they belong to. I don't think that's a well-prepared budget. I don't know if the Treasury, at least the structure, controls it to compare anything at all, but there's almost nothing to compare it to. We asked why hundreds of people are proposed to receive new officials from the Ministry of Regional Development in a situation where we are in the middle of a financial period. If it finally moves, perhaps yes, the drawing of the Czech Republic's European funds, the hundred people or more than a hundred people, or why it is. But there are other juicy things that I recommend to your attention, which I am also not sure would be in the management of the family company - Minister of Finance, when you say you want to run the state as a family company, so when some of your children tell you that they need 1.453 miles to entertain in 2016. And in 2017 7,720 miles, it's already a party at the gate every day! I don't know. Yeah, we're talking billions here, nobody really understands, but... She's not here, Madam Secretary, but I'd like to know where they get the sandwiches for the 7.7 miles. The crown or what it is. It's a massacre! That's just completely insane! Or consulting and consulting services. Good. We're in the middle of a financial period. I stress that we are not at the beginning, we are not negotiating new parameters for drawing European funds, but for consulting, consulting and legal services, which were often mentioned here, who knows what is not happening inside, so they needed 1.615 million in the Ministry of Regional Development last year, which seems to me to be such an adequate one. I deal with my own efforts. Something I'm not capable of, I'm making a deal. But from year to year, we go 44.7 miles. From 1.6 to 44 to advise and legal services at the Ministry of Regional Development. I'm the one who'd like to hear an explanation of what's so important. Or another one here - travel. Travel 12 miles. in 2016. Let us say that the Ministry of Regional Development is addressing European funds, even if we do not draw on them, so we are draining our own funds with these costs, but we need 20.7 next year. That's, I don't know, brother, 80 percent more or how much more. Sounds to me like there's another million to travel again, plus seven miles. for a treat. That's awesome! We have a really important ministry that handles the situation completely pregnantly. Or the attendance fees at the conferences. Last year, 45 thousand, now 3.969 miles. It is! What's the big deal? What foreign conference do we need these kind of local fees for? You probably know this as coalition MPs, because I think the Ministry of Regional Development is discussing it with you. Well, not with us, and I guarantee you, I haven't seen this stuff in a brothel like this in a long time. It's basically hard to navigate, so you can find the meaningfulness of some of the expenses that are planned here. So what I think is absolutely fatally wrong, and we are talking about it both in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and here in plenary in a number of laws, and we are saying that it is really one of the priorities for the development of municipalities today, to support them in the field of basic and maternal education and to support them in the area of investment in communications. It's hidden here somewhere, said Madam Secretary, 250 miles. The crowns we were unable to germinate, where they were, but 250 miles. Kroner, that's absolute marginality. That's basically just an election budget for whoever's coming. It seems to me that this is just wrong, that it's obvious that it's not one of the government's priorities, that it's not one of the ones - maybe words are said, but the facts are really different. As well as, I will move on to the last chapter that bothered me at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and this is the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. A lot of people here are gonna talk about security, etc. I've noticed one thing I'd like to explain from the Home Secretary. If we can reconstruct the canteen in 57 miles. CZK, why we give 20 million to prevent crime in the Czech Republic. crowns? What's that? You better not put anything in there, because it's the same. You better save the money, because it has no impact. It can't protect anyone! Crime prevention 20, renovated cafeteria 57. Where are the priorities of the Ministry of Interior in this area in situations where people feel more threatened, are they sometimes afraid? I think we need to prevent these things, but it's not the Home Office's priority - and it used to be. She used to be. I don't understand why. I'd like an answer to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u19	Thank you and please, with the priority right of the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Kovářová will be prepared after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u20	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, dear colleagues. I didn't get Mr. Bendl's speech. I am a normal calm man, but when I heard him here taking various resorts, including my department, and discussing how much we give for bread - I ask, Mr Bendla, where was your concern under the ODS, for Prime Minister Petr Nečas, about such detailed analyses of the various budget chapters, including how much did the EU Presidency cost us? As you said about these things and where your concern for the resort was at a time when you were a minister and when in 2012 only in the Forests of the Czech Republic for IT and legal services and marketing you spent 577 miles. CZK 378 million in 2013 Kroner, and when I got in, we were able to push it down to 249? Which is the difference between two years minus 328 miles. Crowns. So where did you take care of that when you were in charge of the Ministry? Yes, it's okay that you're asking these questions now, but I think that you, of all people, should brush up on your own threshold and really consider what you did as a member of the government and what the ODS did when she had the prime minister, and how she treated the state budget and taxpayers' taxes in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u21	Thank you. I note two factual points - Mr Bendl and Mr Fiedler. I'll ask Mr. Bendl for a microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u22	I think you missed the opportunity to keep quiet, Minister, because you know very well that in 2012 it was a negotiated matter from past years, and that I couldn't do anything about it, and that whoever could really physically have done nothing about it and to this day didn't really do anything about it, you are, because with the competition of legal services - let's see how it is with the turn of 2015 and 2016, how it looks - JŘBU and all these things. You're wrong. And to waste state resources, we'll also look at that, because if you can equip the Deputy Minister of Agriculture with his $1 million service apartment, that's what needs to be explained.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u23	Thank you. I shall ask Mr Fiedler's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. My colleague Bendl responded to Minister Jurečka. I don't want to be a judge here, if that's what it was, because it wasn't about me. I was neither on the political scene nor in the Chamber of Deputies in recent years. But in relation to Minister Jurečka - don't really look for politics in this right now. I really think that we should say enough once again pragmatically without political insights, let's start working rationally, factually. The arguments that have been made here, comments on where the sums are - when I listen to it, I really raise my eyebrows. I have focused on other amounts in the budget, colleagues, on others. So let's say, in a matter of fact, pragmatically, that there are numbers that are worth thinking about. And let's not look and argue that you did the same thing. Then there will be a new government. He's gonna blame it on the previous governments again. Let's, for God's sake, think pragmatically at last and say yes, this is a point of fact, this is not. And let's not just look at it, we're the coalition, we're the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u25	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone duly logged in by Mrs Kovářová. Mr. Zahradník will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you my amendment, which is in the system under number 5326. The essence of this proposal is to increase the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Report in the indicator of the government budget reserve by CZK 5 456 712. Second, the reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 301 The Office of the President of the Republic for the same amount in the employment salary indicator, excluding staff at the posts. Let me briefly justify my amendment. It is proposed that the expenditure of Chapter 301 be reduced, as I mentioned, by 10 per cent on staff other than staff in employment, which corresponds to the amount of appropriations of more than 5 million. Crowns. The proposal does not change the amount of appropriations budgeted for the salary of the President of the Republic. I propose a reduction in response to a long-term situation where: The Office of the President of the Republic has not done professional work in the long term and shames the Czech Republic and the institution of the President of the Republic at home and abroad, whether it is a false statement by the Castle Press Spokesperson, the failure of the Chief Logist to ensure the timely arrival of the President at the national funeral of the former President of the Slovak Republic, Kováč, or the fact that there has been a person standing at the head of the Office of the President of the Republic without security clearance for several years. And let me give you a few examples. Let us remember that when the NATO Secretary-General was adopted by Mr Stoltenberg, there was a UN flag hanging at the Castle instead of the NATO flag. The President of the Republic of Zeman criticized Ambassador Schapir for not attending the celebrations of the national festival on October 28 at the Castle, said he received this information from the Castle Protocol. The castle spokesperson Ovčáček subsequently responded that the Ambassador was present but that he was invisible. And there's no need to apologize to the invisible. Remember how he reacted to the late arrival of the President, the funeral of the former President of the Slovak Republic, Kováč. He wasn't aiming criticism into his own ranks, but he was accusing Air Traffic řízení of misconduct. Then, of course, it was discovered that Air traffic control didn't make a mistake, and luckily, the spokesperson apologized. The next chapter is Chancellor Mynář. Not only has he been working at the Castle for many years without security clearance, he not only has kept his salary a secret for a long time, so that we can then find out that his salary is higher than the Prime Minister's salary, not only has he built up his property return, virtually. His affidavit, but he causes confusion in the ranks of the castle guards. They complain about the confusion and meaningless orders and blame Chancellor Mynář. For example, he ordered the closure of the Eastern Gate at the Black Tower, causing complications for a number of employees and castle guards. The reasons, however, are private. The chancellor lives by this tower, and there's a lot of traffic in the area. It shall also take decisions in dispute. Supposedly, he even had the Deer Trench open because he needed to run there. And the final straw or vertex is that the castle guard must pay tribute to the chancellor. This honor, however, is due only to the President of the Republic, to constitutional officials or to state visits. As a result of this behavior of the castle chancellor, a third of the most experienced members of the department are considering leaving. Therefore, the purpose of the proposal is, first of all, to send a message to the President that the cup of patience of the Chamber of Deputies is beginning to overflow. It is the President of the Republic who is responsible for his co-workers. And as long as he suffers, even directly or indirectly, from supporting unprofessional and untrustworthy persons around him, he does not appear to be justified for taxpayers to contribute to their remuneration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u27	Thank you. I'm asking for a microphone with a factual remark from Mr. Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the board, perhaps we are discussing the state budget here and not what any of the castle officials are producing or what they are doing. So don't be mad at me, I think we're paid very well to do what we have here and approve the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. kraťoučký notice, I won't hold up. It has to do with it, if taxpayers are to pay such a lousy service and such an embarrassment that takes place in the Castle. So Mrs. Kovářová's performance was quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u31	Thank you. And please to the microphone of Mr Zahradník, who is duly logged in to the debate. Mr. Vilímec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall therefore return to the budget. Here I would like to join the criticism expressed by Mr Bendl on the shape of the budget processing. I have already mentioned it a little in the first reading here, and I have to say that the budget that the individual chapters present - those chapters are actually, in terms of the size of such larger budgets of large cities or perhaps a little larger budgets of regions. And I must say that, as a longtime representative of both the city and the regional and, in fact, eight years of the South Bohemian Region's governor, I cannot imagine that such a budget would be presented by the head of the economic department to discuss the council. With a budget like that, I'd throw it out, but he wouldn't actually dare bring in a budget like that. There is absolutely no identification of any more detailed purposes for which money in the state budget is to go. For example, I will mention here in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, there are individual subroutines, programs, spending blocks. Expenditure block 3.1.1 Improving the state of nature and landscape a billion 500 million. For example, the programme within this expenditure circuit to support the restoration of the natural functions of the landscape, what we curse ourselves with today and every day when we want to combat climate change and drought, so within this programme there is a budget of 30 million crowns, but it is no longer clear what means will go to the individual sub-programmes through which this programme is implemented, how many crowns, what resources will be spent on adaptation measures to mitigate the impact of climate change on aquatic, forest, as well as forest ecosystems. You're probably going to be here to discuss and maybe even ratify the Paris Agreement. And it will burden our country with a huge load. We will, if we are convinced that man is causing climate change, to implement mitigation and adaptation measures, but I am afraid that for 30 million it will in no way be possible. And we also need to know what structure these expenses will have. That is, to support the criticism of my fellow Member, Bendl. The material is not well processed, there is no data synthesis, there is no table overview of expenditure for individual activities, there are also no time series which would allow us to assess the development of individual chapters in the state budget, i.e. year-on-year comparison. In particular, in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, operating expenditure increases by 3,4 % compared to 2016, by 12 % compared to 2015. So obviously, the budget in this chapter prefers consumption. Perhaps a attentive reader might argue that capital spending is actually increasing very much here. This is the case, of course, but it must be said here that, unfortunately, it is virtual expenditure so far, because it is mostly directed towards programmes funded by the European Union and financial mechanisms, and unfortunately, the Operational Programme Environment does not draw on the new programming period. On 1 January less than 2 per cent of the funds were spent. The fact that there is an increase in the number of employees, we are gradually getting used to it, it happens in every resort. Here in this resort there has been an increase of 103 employees over the last three years. I merely point out that, between 2011 and 2013, there was a reduction of 377 employees without in any way affecting the functioning of the Ministry. The government simply needs more and more workers for the same activity, more and more people for more and more money. I have already drawn attention to this programme Supporting the natural functions of the landscape and proposing adaptation measures to impact climate change on aquatic, forest, non-forest ecosystems, where there are only 30 million. On the other hand, there is a great increase in commitments from international treaties. There is an increase of CZK 61 million compared to 2014. The evaluation of the effectiveness of these contracts, which results from them for the Czech Republic, did not take place. Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared an amendment, which I have put into the system as House document 5310, and I therefore declare this to be my proposal. At the same time, I will introduce you to him and, of course, I will also allow myself to justify him. I propose in the draft State Budget for 2017 in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment for 2017 the expenditure block on nature and landscape protection, the expenditure heading on improvement of nature and landscape status, the increase of resources in the programme 115160 Supporting the restoration of natural landscape functions by CZK 10 million and in the same chapter expenditure block Other environmental activities, the expenditure heading of environmental protection activities under non-investment subsidies to non-profit organisations, the reduction of funds by CZK 10 million. I have already said that the $30 million can never be enough with such a huge amount of measures that we have to take to face, if you see it as a suitable, imminent climate disaster and climate change. At the same time, subsidies to non-state non-profit organisations are still being increased. In 2014, it was CZK 10 million; in 2015, CZK 20 million was approved; in 2016 it was even proposed to allocate CZK 32 million to non-state non-profit organisations. At that time, some joint measure managed to return the amount to the CZK 20 million. In turn, 20 million crowns are proposed under non-investment subsidies to non-profit organisations. In fact, it is quite detailed here - and I must, therefore, exceptionally appreciate - as to how the money will be distributed. The main areas of supported activities are conservation of nature and biodiversity, environment and impacts on human health, adaptation to climate change and innovative elements of environmental education, education and education. We must say that the task of education, whether in the environmental field, belongs, of course, to education and not to non-state non-profit organisations. Here we have to ask ourselves whether it is by chance not money for the further spread of green environmental ideology, whether it is by chance the hidden support of such an influential organization that we know as the Reconstruction of the State, which is part of Bold Bold's association, which has previously been subsidized from the state budget. [[11.00 hours]] Here it is said in this item of our budget that the minimum amount of support is CZK 30,000, maximum CZK 200,000 per project, and that one organization - says so this item - can submit a maximum of three projects. I was looking for a list of non-governmental non-profit organizations. I found two such lists in the Ministry's department, one from the CENIA site, an institution called CENIA, which also reports on the environment for us, and there are 59 mischiefs, on the list offered by the Ministry, there are 42. So once again, we can try to make some average of these two numbers, let's say that the potential candidates for funding are 50 in the range of 30 to 200,000. So let's say that we would take as such an average grant for each of these projects CZK 100,000, and if each organisation can submit a maximum of three projects -- maybe somebody can do nothing, somebody will do one, somebody will do three, let's say on average, that it's two projects that each of those organizations in about 50 could do, so if we multiply it together, we'll get 10 miles. Crowns. This, in my view, is the amount needed to implement this subsidy programme for non-governmental non-profit organisations. It is still said that the money that would be left if we didn't split the funds out of the 20 miles. these individual projects, so they would be directed e.g. coordination projects for conservation of nature and landscape, coordination of the Land Society movement or open programmes to promote biodiversity. Well here I would - the last one yes, please, if there is anything left of the 10 million, if we approve it, then yes, let's put it there, but in support of green ecology, in support of organizations that actually prevent the development of the Czech Republic, I would warn you to do that. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have already read here and introduced you to my amendment, and I have also tried logically to justify it. Once again, I have tabled a proposal registered under House document 5310 and I am therefore signing up for this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to the microphone next in line, and that is Mr. Vilímec. Mr. Skalický will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u34	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also apply to House document 5308 during my speech, but I will make a slight change there, on the basis of the opening statement by the Minister of Finance that any reduction in the operation of the sovereign debt will be strongly hindered. So I want to give him a chance to support the amendment in at least one option. I don't want to go back to the general criticism of this bill at second reading. In any case, in a situation where growth of the economy is expected to be 2.4 per cent next year and the current budget will most likely end up in surplus this year, there simply cannot be a draft budget with a 60-billion-dollar deficit. I think it's quite obvious. The Minister of Finance is not here right now, but when, at the end of the first reading in the final report, he asked, in connection with my contribution, where do I go to these figures in conjunction with income or income prospects, the answer is easy. The figures are given in the explanatory memorandum, nowhere else, and if the Minister is questioning the figures, then he is also questioning the draft budget. But I want to focus mainly on two areas in my speech, one on the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because I am a member of the Social Committee, and then on the issue of state support, which has also been mentioned here, from national resources in the case of reconstruction of primary schools. My amendment is then directed to the other area. I must state that, contrary to the last discussion of the draft chapter workbook of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, this time the visible effort of the Ministry officials was to quite frankly and thoroughly clarify the draft budget chapter and, in principle, by the mouth of the economic deputy, to answer questions and to comment on the amendments. No resolution on the draft budget was then adopted by increasing tensions between the coalition parties in the Social Committee, even though individual amendments had previously been adopted. This is, in fact, a tradition in this parliamentary term on the Social Committee, when amendments are adopted to the state budget or to other press and then no resolution is adopted. But it is not the opposition's fault that the coalition cannot act unitedly in the Social Committee. But to the substance of this chapter. In fact, more than 94 percent of the total expenditure is mandatory expenditure. In absolute amount, it makes almost 529 billion. Crowns. Mandator spending, if we look at the past years in this chapter, is still increasing. The growth of these mandatorial expenditures is mainly due to the growth of pension insurance expenditures, where there is actually a planned increase this year - or in that next year - of the planned increase of 15 billion. CZK, as well as increasing expenditure on sickness insurance benefits, there is an increase of 2.8 billion. Crowns. I certainly do not want to criticise the decision taken by the government before the regional elections, I do not want to criticise the increase in the average pension by CZK 308, but we must realise that, contrary to the automatic valorisation envisaged by the draft law or the pension insurance law, this is another distortion and additional budgetary burden. According to the information, the Deputy Minister is doing it for another 5.6 billion. Crowns. Even so, and I would point out, there will be a reduction in the average old-age pension ratio to an average gross wage of 0.4 percentage points. This also shows how serious the situation with pensions is. Relying on only one resource, on the ongoing financing of old-age pensions, in the future, we can hardly and well know that the government, instead of a proposal, has merely abolished the current pension reform and is presenting another dispute to the Chamber of Deputies - and perhaps we will be able to reach it today - and, at this moment, a very populist amendment consisting of a reduction in retirement sometime in 2030. If we do not realise and, above all, the government does not realise the seriousness of the situation in the pension system, which is serious, and I note, even at the time of economic growth, it will result in further significant reductions in the relation of average old-age pensions to average gross wages, and this should not be our goal. In principle, the draft chapter insists on the current situation. The government simply disagrees in this composition on the submission of some meaningful proposal, a concept of how to resolve a clearly unfinanceable pension system in the future. Similarly, it is in the field of social services. Everyone knows - or I don't know if everyone, but certainly at least members of the Social Committee - that, for example. In the service care of social services, people work on average for CZK 20,000 gross wages. The personal situation in these services is even worse than in health care. In its time, some ten years ago, when it was presented, when it was submitted by Minister Škromach, the current law, although amended by the Act on Social Services, it was assumed that so-called. the contribution to care in combination with own income will fully ensure the financing of social services. It turns out that this is far from true, even those non-interest transfers of around 8 to 9 billion. CZK, will not ensure full financing of these services. If I just take the example of our region, the Pilsen Region, that, in addition to these non-interest subsidies, must finance the running of its social services at about 80 miles. The koruna and the amount in those years are still growing. [[11.10 hours]] I therefore agree with the proposals that I also supported on the committee and which, at the expense of the abused means of benefits in material distress, are trying at least 600 miles. CZK strengthen the social non-interest transfers. Yes, it is not systemic, but the government is not proposing any systemic measures and the situation is getting worse. Benefits in material distress - we talked about them yesterday in discussing the amendment to the Law on material distress - this is a chapter in itself. Although the overall budgeted amount is slightly reduced, it is very inadequate. Here I must point out that to my displeasure in this chapter book there is always only one whole item that is not broken down. So then we're arguing with the Minister or the Deputy Minister about how many of those 10 billion. Makes up for the housing payments. One states a large amount, the Minister mentions a smaller amount. We will see, after yesterday's debate and amendments, whether the government, Madam Secretary, first of all, will support more forceful measures in this matter, which would also allow for some savings in this item. The last thing I want to talk about and where I will also read the amendment is the issue of higher support for municipalities - and I note from national sources - for the reconstruction of their schools. Schools are not just for pupils with permanent residence in one community - now I'm talking about primary schools. Improving material conditions must therefore be a common task for municipalities, for regions, but also for the state. So far, the state has behaved in a very cautious, restraining way. He's already mentioned this to Mr. Richard Dolejš. I also don't understand why there are similar grant titles at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports as well as at the Ministry of Finance. At the Treasury Department, it still has a tradition from the time of the bear's so-called cutting. There's still that grant title that's being used. However, I must say again that I should not just criticize the cutting of the bear at the time, that most newly built schools would not stand today without the support at the time. I don't think the attitude of those ministries is enough. It will respond to some modernization and reconstruction associated with an increase in the capacity of education in connection with so-called residential urbanization - that is also a nice term, such a program is held by the Ministry of Finance. It's set aside about 634 miles. Crowns. In addition to this programme, the Ministry of Education allocated 620 miles. CZK for a similar programme, albeit called a little different - the development of teaching capacities in kindergartens and primary schools established by local authorities. Basically, it's a little bit the same, although when I looked at the schedule in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, I don't know how it's related to a community that has 500 inhabitants, but exceptions are always found. But the mayors come to me, or I think other Members who do not want to increase their capacity. They're not even in the area around big cities, but they have outdated schools that obviously don't have a 21st-century building level, and they need to fix those schools. And no grant title really thinks about that. When we look at the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, there is only 38 million in the remaining item for education in the General Treasury. The koruna will not solve the situation. I also disagree with the statement by the Deputy Minister of Finance at the Committee on Budgets that the aid is being reduced because it is not of interest to the applicant. That is indeed a very strange statement. I have completely different knowledge. In order for at least some partial change to take place and municipalities not only close to large cities could apply for support for the reconstruction and modernisation of their schools without having to increase the capacity of these schools, I suggest that the grant title in the General Treasury be strengthened by 200 million. Crowns. This would be the case where it is not about increasing capacity near large cities or increasing teaching capacity, but indeed about the necessary reconstruction of existing non-compliant spaces that do not comply with the 21st century standard. I therefore subscribe, first, to the amendment registered under House document 5308. He's suggesting an increase of 200 miles. on the programme financing of the relevant grant title in the General Treasury administration, in turn on account of the administration of the state debt and the reduction of support for the Czech Export Bank. In both cases, it's 100 miles. Crowns. In the second alternative, I propose a reduction only to the public debt operator. And in order to give the opportunity to support this proposal to the Minister of Finance, I suggest that we add some more. So I'm suggesting a third option to make that 200 miles. went only to support the Czech Export Bank. I watched - The Czech Export Bank should get 1, 330 million in support next year. In addition, it should increase its equity by 1 billion. Crowns. So I'm assuming he can handle it. I believe that one of those variants of my proposal could be supported. I consider this proposal to be an important signal of support for the state in relation to the municipalities and, above all, their primary and part of their kindergarten schools. On the one hand, the government, state and finance minister are still preventing the situation in the budgetary determination of taxes in the case of municipalities, as I noted yesterday at the meeting of the working team at the Ministry of Finance, so at least next year, let the municipalities support the reconstruction of their primary and kindergarten schools. Thank you for the attention and helpful assessment of my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u35	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Skalický's microphone, Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u36	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister - there are no more - ministers, sorry. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is listed under number 5325 in the system. It concerns the issue of the Ministry of Defence and I present it as a member of the Defence Committee. I propose in the relevant Act on the State Budget in Chapter 307 The Ministry of Defence will increase the cross-cutting expenditure indicator maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system by 2,280 million. having regard to the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the Further reduce the expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture in a specific indicator of support for the agrifood complex by an amount of 2,280 million. I'm supplementing my proposal with a proposal from my colleague, Černochová. The reasons that lead me to present this amendment are probably the following. This is primarily a security situation in the world, especially in the Middle and Middle East. Furthermore, the possibility of rethinking the United States' contribution to NATO and, in essence, the need for Europe to take more care of itself in quotation marks. [[11.20 hours]] This also results in what has been very much discussed recently, and these are the needs of our army, the Army of the Czech Republic, both in the area of the number of soldiers on the one hand and in the area of strategic orders and the armament of the army, whether in projects existing or in projects that are being prepared. Specifically, I believe that these funds can be used in the relevant chapter, which I quoted, in four projects or programmes. The first program is 10722 and they are wheel armored vehicles of the command-station and coupling pandur. In addition 10741 - mobile 3D radio-locator MADR and airport radio-locators. Another 10762 - increasing aircraft capabilities JAS-39 Gripen, their modernization. And the last program where these funds can be used, 10768 - modernization of self-propelled cannons. All these programs are either ready for implementation or being implemented, namely 3D MADR radars. And I believe that this financial amount can be used to increase in the relevant programmes in the next year or in advance of payments for certain programmes of 2018 and 2019 so that these strategic contracts can be implemented more quickly, paid earlier, and thus used space for further purchases associated with the arming of our army. I'm sure there'll be a number of objections that we can't. I am convinced that these programmes are so far away and this financial amount is so relevant that it can be used if necessary and these processes can be accelerated. In this context, I would like to mention two factors that have been going on for almost three years. And I have to say with some regret that I'm not too happy to mention them here. Firstly, I have convinced myself that at the level of the Ministry of Defence there was no will or willingness, I do not know what to call it, to use exceptions from European Union legislation and to go to the principle or philosophy of strategic procurement, which clearly can accelerate the entire acquisition process, although many European countries, where the defence industry is absolutely calm, use these exceptions, or use the G2G system, so government - government. In this mode, however, maybe in four years only the radars of the postcard 3D MADR were able to reach. The second phenomenon, which I consider even more complicated, is even the issue of the acquisition process. The acquisition process - I am convinced that it has not changed at all in three years, it is still the same and is not well set especially in relation to strategic contracts, on the one hand, to ordinary contracts, but I would really like to mention here the strategic contracts that I have quoted here, and similar. The acquisition process system is very short and it is quite clear that for strategic orders of this type the planning and preparation process exceeds three or four years. It's common to talk about five to seven years. And as set up by the Ministry of Defence's management, it is not real at a reasonable time and with some qualified prediction and stability to implement these orders. There are movements, changes, exchanges. So let's say it's partly chaos or uncertainty. And I would like to call on both the Minister of Finance and the Government to think clearly about the change in the acquisition process by creating, for example, an acquisition fund quote, which will clearly stand outside the Ministry of Defence's current budget, will be under the control of the Ministry of Finance. This acquisition fund, or what we will call it, doesn't matter, financial resources will be allocated continuously to these large strategic contracts, so it will be possible to plan much better and more precisely with some predictability, which is simply not happening at the moment. And I really consider this to be another mistake that has not been resolved in the last three years, even though on the Defence Committee, we have demanded and wanted and proposed that we deal with this change in the process. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I believe that you will at least carefully consider my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please get to Mrs. Semelová's microphone. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is suspended in the electronic system under number 5289 and the purpose of which is to raise money for social services. It is true that over the last two years, funds have been increased overall by more than 2.4 billion in this area. Crowns. However, this is still not enough, and both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and individual regions are forced to provide money from their own resources each year to finance social services in order to ensure their functioning and to maintain the necessary staff. Financial evaluation in social services is very low and does not correspond to the demanding work of these employees, nurses and caregivers, who are already miserable financially. Last year, the average salary of caregivers in social services was CZK 17,856. This year was the gross salary of a worker in social services depending on the number of years worked and the task he has to perform according to the tables, from around 9,000 to 21 810 crowns, but this is only after 32 years of practice. In the real situation, salaries are in direct care just above the minimum wage, in gross they take about 14,000, after taxes around 10 eleven thousand. Slowly it would pay them to stay home and receive social benefits. And we don't want that. Social services provide indispensable assistance to the most needed groups of citizens. Moreover, our society is getting older and social services are becoming increasingly important. In addition to the employees I mentioned, there are also higher education workers working in the social sphere. But they, too, are well below the national average with their earnings. I therefore find it unbearable for social services to be so underappreciated and neglected. Their long-term underfinancing causes a number of complications with ensuring their functioning, increases the lack of professional staff and is problematic about their availability. After all, this catastrophic situation is highlighted annually by trade unions, which repeatedly demand wage increases for all social services employees. Therefore, by my amendment, as I said under number 5289, I propose to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 396 of the State Debt on the State Debt Service Indicator by CZK 400 million and for Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes by CZK 100 million and by these means, i.e. by a total amount of CZK 500 million, to increase Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, a specific indicator of the non-investment non-payment transfer item under Law No 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, for the purpose of financing the salaries of social services workers. The excesses of the politicized Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes have already been mentioned here in his speech by colleague Ondráček and I am applying for his arguments. The money for the questionable results of this institution will certainly be more useful and more necessary for social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u39	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Mrs Nováková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's funny how we still haven't lost the number of applicants in there, even though the MPs are taking turns. [[with a smile]] No, we don't have to check out, as the President tells me. [[Votava at the rapporteur's table]] I have just looked at House Press 921, how many amendments have been added today, and I am no exception. I will therefore proceed to justify my two amendments briefly, because one is put there to consider the Chamber of Deputies in several options. The first amendment to which I am applying at the same time is in the House system under No. 5333. In this amendment, I propose to increase Chapter 398 of the General Treasury by an amount of 16 million. 0,75 thousand. and create item repair and commissioning cultural monuments set of goods no. description 9 in the cadastral territory of the Cook in the village of High Újezd. It is a cultural monument that is part of the cultural heritage. Repaired monuments attract investors, stimulate tourism, which is intended to have a synergy effect of considerable economic benefit for municipalities, regions and the whole Czech Republic. Restoration of monuments has a high share of wage costs in the implementation, it is at least 50 per cent, and this also results in a high return through social insurance and VAT contributions. The reconstruction of monuments brings orders to companies and every repaired monument generates new jobs. On the contrary, I propose that this amount, which I propose, should be reduced by Chapter 323 of the budget, is an appropriation for projects supporting the integration of members of the Roma community. Here I believe that, in the long run, concrete tangible results are not documented, and I have great doubts about the effectiveness of spending these amounts. After all, this has already been said more than once in relation to non-profit organisations in this debate. I believe that you will consider this amendment and consider whether the amounts thus spent would not be spent more effectively with a tangible effect and a result that will be quite obvious. I will now proceed to the presentation of the second amendment, which you will find under four prints in the House system. At the same time, I'm applying to them - not prints, but under registration numbers, these are numbers 5339, 5340, 5341 and 5342. It is actually always a different variant of one amendment, one idea, and that is that I propose to provide funding to the Ministry of Transport, so that this money can be further shifted to polygons and companies that ensure the teaching of safe driving. They provide this instruction for both civil persons and public sector drivers, police, rescue services and the results of their activities are also documented. They do this so that it is often on the verge of profitability, and clearly a positive response to what I had the opportunity to see when we were at the exit meeting with the Committee on Budgets, convinced me to think about it. I was struck by the fact that, within these courses, there was also no first-aid training given to the frequentants, which I think would be a very appropriate contribution to how to expand this activity, because let's say I thought over myself how many of us could do this. Once again, I consider this to be a far more sensible purpose for using these resources than in chapters 313 or 323 of the budget, from which I propose to withdraw these amounts, or to humiliate them. These are amounts in four variants - 12, 10, 6 or 3 miles. Crowns. I believe, colleagues, that you will consider the effectiveness of this investment, a truly beneficial activity with tangible consequences, and you will decide and be approved for one of these options. Thank you for your attention and support for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u41	Thank you. I'd like to see Mrs Nováková's mike. Mrs Adamová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support a change in the budget of Chapter 334, which concerns the Ministry of Culture. These are two changes and both changes relate to personal costs. We hear here very often that it is necessary to protect the monuments, that the monuments form a cultural landscape, often they are dominants of the city, but also of small villages, and it is certainly extremely important. But monuments, galleries, museums cannot perform and perform their functions well unless there are qualified people. The Ministry of Culture, for example, establishes 29 contribution organizations, and if we take the National Heritage Institute, it has a number of locks under it, we may not even realize which locks and which monuments we visit that are under this administration. In total, less than 6.5 thousand employees are employed in the contribution organisations, and it is through these employees that the Ministry of Culture can better fulfil its role, which I believe it does not do 100%, and this is a culturally educational activity. It has to do with the fact that we are not only meant to present to people buildings, real estate, or just galleries, but valuables that are evidence of human art, human spirit, such as historical musical instruments. I have had to intersect the Minister here several times precisely because, within the exhibition of some of the facilities of the Ministry of Culture's contribution organizations, it is quite inconsiderate, because without knowledge of the matter, for example, it treats such proof of the art trade. Therefore, it is clear that investment in personal costs for employees in the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture will not really be wasted, unless - but that is, of course, in the competence of the Ministry of Culture - this will not be necessary a flat addition. Just to illustrate, if the amount that I'm asking to change the item, right after I say, it would be about a hundred million dollars, for 6.5 thousand employees, if it were to be added across the board, it would be a brute of CZK 960, but it certainly wouldn't be. Surely it would be possible to reward much more and better those who really help to pass our cultural heritage on in a modern way, not to talk about digitalization and so on, but all this requires qualified people. [[11.40 hours]] And the second part is related, also to personnel costs and also to that chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, which is related to the fact that, on the basis of the service law which has been approved, it is, in particular, I don't have to say, employees in higher grades have significantly increased their salary, for example, on average, about 30 percent. And if we want those workers to be really perfect under the Service Act, we know that they should all have gone through strict selection procedures, that properly, if everything went well, they should have demonstrated their language competencies, etc. etc., on the contrary, some things are not allowed at all, so the increase in salary is logical, and there are around 12 million missing. So my proposal, which is inserted into the system under number 5331, asks, asks, asks, asks for an increase in the expenses of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture in the expense block of the contribution organisation established by the Ministry of Culture and it is the means of salaries and legal contributions, namely budget item 5331, i.e. CZK 100 million. Second change, increase in expenditure from chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture by CZK 12 million 847 and again with determination to the expenditure block, this time expenses to ensure the performance of the Ministry of Culture's tasks. Of this, the direct means for salaries would be CZK 9 million 446 and budget heading 513 would also include legal contributions, i.e. 3.4 million crowns. Overall, from where we could move this money, this proposal 5331 envisages a reduction in expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State Debt, an indicator of the government debt operator, a total of CZK 112 million 847. Thank you for understanding this amendment. And thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u43	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is under number 5317 in the system. This is a strengthening of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The overall indicator of expenditure will increase by CZK 100 million; the specific indicator of the university will increase by CZK 100 million. It is not a claim to the state budget or debt. The point is that from the chapter of the Office of the Government, expenditure would be reduced by CZK 50 million. In agreement with Grant's Agency for $25 million from the Grant Agency and $25 million from the Technology Agency to strengthen universities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u45	Thank you. And now, please, to Mrs Adamová's microphone, Mrs Hnyková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have three amendments that I would like to make and present to you very briefly. Two of them relate to the same area, but they only differ in the amount that should be discussed. These are amendments under numbers 5298 and 5298 respectively. 5297, when I propose an increase in the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in the indicator of other expenditure on the security of the Ministry's tasks, namely the drug policy programme. So in one variant it is by 945 thousand and in the other variant by 1.5 million crowns. In both cases, it is a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 301 of the Office of the President of the Republic, i.e. in the indicator of other purchases', which is budget item 5173 travel expenses on domestic and foreign trips. Let me make a very brief statement as to why I am trying to put forward this change. I am translating two options on purpose so that the option for Members who think that perhaps we should not be too forceful and reduce by half the item just on the President's foreign and domestic journeys is lower by only 945 thousand. I think she might be a bit of a bear for them by now. When there were over 60 Members who were willing to sign a change in legislation that would return the crime of defamation to the President, I believe that there will be at least the same number of those who will show by this particular step that they do not agree with the foreign policy of the President of the Republic. They do not agree with the countries and regimes they see as important partners. I just remind you that these are very often undemocratic authoritarian or even totalitarian regimes. As Members, we have relatively few options to express our disagreement effectively with President Zeman's actions. Of course, the government is responsible for foreign policy. However, it either doesn't succeed or it doesn't want to correct the damage that President Zeman is doing. And we have this very step, with this particular measure, an opportunity to influence at least symbolically these actions and de facto send a signal to society that we do not agree with the way President Zeman represents the Czech Republic abroad, that we are not satisfied with what statements we have made on the part of our strategic partners, such as the countries of the European Union, NATO countries, which I hope we agree that they are genuinely strategic partners, so that is why I am asking you and I am asking for the support of these amendments. The next amendment concerns a completely different area. This is a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely in the indicator of payment appropriations and other payments under the heading MPSV, the central authority, namely CZK 227 million, and at the same time an increase in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the indicator of non-investment non-payment transfers under the item transfers under Act No. 108/2005 Coll., on Social Services, by the same amount. I'll explain briefly. One of the previous speakers has already suggested increasing the cost of social services, namely the salaries of workers in social services. I know that one of these proposals will also follow me from my colleague Hnyková. I would like to ask that we not raise the number of officials at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For your information, from 2014 onwards, it should be a 40 percent increase in the number of officials in this ministry alone. I think that the 238 officials that the Ministry would like to employ next year would certainly not be needed there, we do not need them there, and instead we could spend these resources on salaries of people who care for disabled people, seniors, homeless people, etc. There are many social services and they are very necessary. Citizens certainly use them and need much more than 238 new officials to strengthen states beyond what has ever been needed at the Ministry of Labour. I think we all agree that these people, the social services workers, deserve to have better salaries, that their salaries are deeply below average, on average in the last year it was CZK 18 136; that their work is really very demanding both physically and, of course, mentally, and they would certainly like to feel that money on their salaries. Therefore, please consider whether we need to increase the number of officials, civil servants, or rather strengthen the motivation and financial assessment of the really needed workers in social services. [[11.50 hours]] Considering both the changes I propose, virtually. three, but in two variants only one of them, I thank you in advance, and I hope that instead of taking money from the Institute for the examination of totalitarian regimes, we will move the money within one chapter from the area to new officials just to existing employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u47	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u48	Madam President, colleagues, I am sorry, I have made a mistake that happens once every ten years. In my application for an amendment, I misread the number of the amendment. It remains what I gave both to the rapporteur and to you - the number of the House document is not 5317 but 5346. So I'm fixing up, I'm sorry. It is therefore Amendment 5346. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u49	Yes, thank you. With Mrs Adamová's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Bělobrádek reminded me that I, too, did not say the number of my amendment, at least the third one, so I would like to correct it. This is an amendment in the system recorded under number 5299 and it is therefore the transfer of money within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which I talked about in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u51	Yes, thank you. And now, please, to Mrs Hnyková's microphone. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at second reading of the state budget, allow me to return to the salary assessment of employees in social services and, in a detailed debate, to submit to my amendments, which are included in the system under number 5241, which increase the salaries of employees in social services by 6 per cent in a total amount of 600 million. Crowns. I want to raise funds in the case of the first amendment from Chapter 313, where I am reducing the expenditure on material distress by an adequate proportion, and in the second amendment from the chapter on the operation of the sovereign debt. Although the Minister does not accept that the government debt management chapter could be reduced, I would nevertheless like to persuade him in my amendment on the importance of transferring these funds to the salaries of employees in social services. We have heard here today across the political parties, whether from our colleague Semelová, Adamová or colleagues Vilímec, about the importance of evaluating workers in social services. And please, my increase wouldn't just be about employees in the benefit organizations, but it would also be about other employees who work in the nonprofit sector and other organizations. In the first reading of the State Budget Act, I introduced you to the payment terms in social services. It's been said repeatedly today. And that's why I was... [[Silence for noise from the left.]] Madam President, I know that there are colleagues from social democracy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u53	Madam, I can handle this. Thank you. I'll ask my colleagues to take their seats, if any. If they have something to discuss, do so in the foyer and do not disturb the lecturers at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u54	Thank you, too, Madam President. I know the gentlemen are still capable of not needing these social services, but they will eventually be affected. So I would go back to my speech. I was very pleased to see a 6% increase in the Social Committee after my argument, but the resolution was not adopted, and I therefore need to read this amendment again. Unfortunately, I did not find this in the table of the Committee on Budgets, either, that the Committee on Budgets supported this change. So I chose the path to convince you. I know that there have also been comments made on the Committee on Social Policy from the Coalition Members that it is unconceptionable. I'm asking myself questions. What's the big deal? That I'll take the resources of a material emergency and move them to raise workers in social services? That the funds will be transferred from a chapter that has been criticized in the long run? That I want to give the money that is paid on a stretchy hand to people who are honest and every day caring for the elderly, sick and disabled? I really don't understand, it doesn't make sense! I have not once heard, unfortunately, from these Members, that they would think about this issue and that they would also do something about it during these three years that we are here in the Chamber of Deputies. When you visit social services - and recently I was in the South Bohemia Region, I have heard the same sadness from employers to do something about employees' salaries because there is a great shortage of workers in social services. And they argue that employees leave for them, go to Kaufland, where they give them much more, and go home with a clear head. So to convince you of these people's work, I took the liberty of taking a short tour of their work to make you realize what's behind the money we've been talking about today. Employees in social services provide direct service care for persons consisting of training simple daily activities, assistance in personal hygiene, dressing, handling of devices, aids, laundry, maintenance of cleanliness and personal hygiene, promotion of self-sufficiency, strengthening of life-activation, the creation of basic social and social contacts and meeting psychosocial needs. They carry out basic educational non-teaching activities consisting in deepening and strengthening basic sanitary social habits up to their fixation, their effect on the creation and development of work habits, manual skills and work activities. They carry out leisure activities aimed at developing personalities, interests, knowledge and creative skills in the form of artistic, musical and physical education. They provide cultural activities and provide assistance and personal assistance. Nursing activities consist in carrying out work related to direct contact with persons with physical and psychological difficulties, in the comprehensive care of their household, providing social assistance, carrying out social write-offs under the direction of a social worker. Providing assistance in creating social and social contacts and mental activation. Organisational and comprehensive coordination of care activities in the territorial whole. A social worker in direct care works with written documentation of clients, sets individual plans and goals of clients and is responsible for their implementation, works with a constitutional information system. It performs records of the implementation of activities according to individual client plan, communicates with clients and relatives. It follows social and nursing standards, methodological guidelines, orders and guidelines for seniors' homes. [[12.00 hours]] He is a professional guarantor for providing quality social care in the exchange operation. He knows the updated standards of quality of social services at the department and is familiar with them. It cooperates and creates quality social documentation. He cooperates with nurses and other social services workers. It takes care of compliance with hygiene-epidemiology regime, operational home order, etc. He solves problems in shifts with a sectional sister or another sister in the ministry. It supports new work procedures in social care at the department and helps fellow workers to manage other tasks. It deepens its expertise in social care at seminars, accredited courses, professional internships, through self-study, reading the professional press and ensures that the knowledge obtained from these activities is transferred to the department. He participates in the inclusion of new workers in social services, educates clients and family members in social care, defends the rights of clients. It ensures and controls the quality of active social care performance of its staff in the shift, especially the fulfilment of individual client objectives. I've listed very little of what I consider to be very important in working with people, working with old people, working with disabled people. To do this, we must add that if anyone wants to work in social services, they must, of course, be educated. The directors of individual facilities call that they are no longer enough only for workers who have basic education and an accredited qualification course, but that they want much better prepared social workers just for the care of their clients. Those who work in social services know what it took for us to get social services to the level they are today. But there's still a lot to improve. If we want high-quality social services, let us remember that the foundation is an employee in social services at all levels. It's not just one person's job, it's the whole team's. That is why, folks, I would strongly advocate that we support the amendment together and thus improve the lives of employees in social services. Because none of us, I repeat it all the time, we don't know when we're gonna need social services. All of us will grow old and need care, support, and help. Only employees who will be properly evaluated can provide this. And I think society should approach that, and so should we here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u55	Thank you, Madame. Please get to Mrs Putnová's microphone, Mr Černoch will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u56	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to introduce and justify my amendment to the system under number 5338. I propose that in the State Budget Act for 2017, the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports should be increased by 100 million in the indicator of support for sport activities, general sporting activities, in the light of Chapter 396 of the State Debt in the State Debt Service Indicator. These resources should be invested in the introduction of compulsory third period physical education in children at first grade primary schools. Our children's physical fitness and fitness have been deteriorating rapidly lately. The way of life has changed, and children spend more time on computers, and eating habits have also changed. During the last decade, the number of paediatric diabetics and overweight children has increased. Statistics issue warning numbers. The proportion of paediatric diabetics under six years of age is almost 7 percent. The Czech Republic has thus taken the lead on a global scale. Twelve percent of children aged 6 to 12 have excessive weight. We are not the only countries facing these problems in the physical condition of children, but I feel that we are still paying little attention to these difficulties. Health is the highest value and health needs to be cultivated since childhood. Since 2011, I have been trying to enforce a compulsory third period of physical education at first level. We seem to have made some progress in this regard, because a pilot project has already been carried out. These hundred million I am asking would be devoted in 2017 to development and to the beginning of this process, and I believe that this initiative will find support in the parliamentary ranks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u57	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Mr. Lank will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u58	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to devote myself to non-profit organizations, which unfortunately have a poor reputation at present. It is the financing of non-profit organisations, currently organisations that do not do as much work as they should. Of course, I say that there are many non-profit organizations in the Czech Republic that are really doing a great job on good projects. Unfortunately, it is a trend that non-profit organizations that have absolutely nothing to do with the mission of nonprofits are hiding behind this work that is beneficial. I am referring to opaque non-profits whose activities for tens of millions of crowns are to tape stickers or moderate discussions on Facebook. You can see for yourself on the rejection reactions of Czech citizens that they do not want such programs. Therefore, the only way to limit this activity is to limit funding from the state budget and use this money effectively for our citizens. I would therefore like to sign up for the amendment, which is under the number of House document 5305. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u59	Thank you and I'll ask for Mr. Lank's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Beautiful noon, ladies and gentlemen. I hereby sign up for Amendment 5306. The entire political representation has one huge debt. It's a debt to our security forces. I would remind you that in 2010, salaries were reduced by 10 percent. Everyone here was promising them how we were gonna pay them back and that the cut was only temporary. Unfortunately, there was always another priority, or there wasn't enough money, and there wasn't enough money left for our cops or firemen. Despite the promises of politicians, across the political spectrum, there has still not been a settlement to the original situation, especially when the value of the salary is cleared for inflation. Given the economic growth and the increased revenues of the state budget, there are very good fiscal assumptions for this balance of salaries. So I'm asking you, let's fulfill those promises we made across here from the right to the left, and make up for the salaries of the security forces. I don't think anybody here is doubting that they shouldn't earn that money. And the security situation in the world isn't good, and I guess we can't expect improvement anytime soon. It's 900 miles. CZK, thanks to which salaries should be raised by approximately 2%. I propose to transfer funds from Chapter 396 which is the State Debt Service. Even given the good economic situation today, there is hardly ever a more appropriate situation for this step, and I therefore hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u61	Thank you, Mr Lank. Have a good noon. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u62	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I am traditionally reading an amendment concerning the budget of the specific mandatory indicator of Chapter 313 of the MPSV transfers to promote reproduction of property. It is a programme for the development and restoration of a material technical basis for social services. This programme aims to invest in supporting social service operators, both those setting up regions and other providers. In the past, there have been criticisms that this should be a priority concern for the regions, but this opinion will not hold up. Only in 2012-2014, the regions invested 2.5 billion in reconstruction or new construction in social services. CZK and other funds were added last year and this year. The crucial reason to increase the budget amount to this programme is the fact that there is still a small percentage of social services facilities that do not meet current standards and unfortunately continue to become obsolete. Another reason for this is that, following a temporary reduction in the amount requested by individual entities in the IPSV from this programme, the amount requested was raised to 2 billion in 2016. CZK, with 120 unsatisfied requests at the moment. The further increase will certainly take place at the beginning of 2017, when applications are always submitted by 15. 3. of the relevant calendar year. It is therefore entirely realistic that the total amount of applications that cannot be met will reach an amount of 2.5 billion. Crowns. The draft state budget includes a programme for the development and restoration of a material technical base in social services with a sum of 127.44 million. Crowns. In order to make at least the most necessary investments in social services, it is necessary to increase the amount to at least 450 million. Crowns. This is the intention of my amendment, when I propose to increase the proposed amount by 322,56 million. Crowns. The budgetary envelope is proposed within the same chapter 313 of the MPSV, where I propose that the budget of the specific mandatory unemployment aid indicator be reduced by the same amount. In this context, I would like to say that, given the predictions of macroeconomic indicators by the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, a further increase in GDP growth can be expected after the successful year 2016 in 2017. In the field of employment, the end-2016 is then significantly successful. A total increase in employment is expected by 1.6%. Although the increase is already significantly smaller for 2017 it is expected to increase. Therefore, the reduction in the budget of the specific mandatory unemployment aid indicator is logical and should not be adversely affected within the framework of Chapter 313 of the MPSV. Finally, let me express my conviction that, in the years in which the economy succeeds, it is our fundamental duty to invest, and that is to invest in different areas. In view of demographic developments, this should logically also be in social services. I also support the changes in the budget presented by my fellow Members when they propose an increase in the salaries of workers in social services. These two intentions are appropriately complementary. Without adequate salaries, we will have more and more serious personnel problems especially in social services. And investment, improvement of spatial conditions and improvement of equipment in social services will serve clients of social services, which is primarily concerned, but will also make it easier for social services workers to work hard, which must be the same for us. Without quality, motivated and satisfied staff, quality care in social services cannot be provided. I would therefore like to ask you to support this amendment at third reading and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this path to my amendment, which you will find in the system under number 5552. This amendment contains a change in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, when I propose to move from the sub-chapter the fight against drought 10 miles. to the sub-chapter of the Landscape Care Program. If I should briefly justify this, it is that both sub-chapters or areas affected by these sub-chapters overlap with each other, because, even under the Landscape Care Programme, measures are being implemented in the landscape, which aim precisely to combat drought, but unlike the first landscape care programme, it is long-term underfunded and cannot be used, for example, by means of funds from the Environment Operational Programme. It is a programme that has been verified for a long time, where municipalities, small landowners, associations, are participating, and therefore I think it would be good to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u65	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Mr Stanislav Grospič is another member of the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me to speak a little bit with Evergreen in relation to the state budget and try to read the amendment relating to the state budget to press 921, as it was last year. You have received this proposal in the House document in an electronic version under number 5336, with the fact that I would very much like to correct the reasoning of this proposal, which led me to request a different source to cover these costs than I originally stated in the electronic version. The amendment concerns the addition of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic to the grant title for the State Transport Fund of 100 million. CZK for preparation and implementation of project preparation and project called. Vlkavské spojky from the section of the town of Milovice to the village of Všejany, event. to the village of Čakovice as the first stage of the new connection considered hl. m. Prague with the statutory city of Liberec, through the town of Mladá Boleslav, which would significantly speed up this train connection and is currently at the stage of the study and variant solution assessment of these studies on the most suitable route. I think that the development of the transport infrastructure of the Czech Republic, including the railway transport infrastructure and the Railway Infrastructure Administration, needs to be taken across from this step, which is why I am proposing this amendment. I propose to cover this increase from Chapter 396 of the State debt, the appropriations for the expenditure on the administration of the state debt. And why do I propose this item? Because, after experience from the past, there is a real assumption that there will be enough available funds, so it will actually be less drawn from this item and it will be able to be drawn out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u67	I thank Mr Grospič. With a factual remark, Mr Vít Kaňkovský still. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u68	Dear colleagues, just to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are met, I am still formally signing up for my amendment, which is in the system under number 5328.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Klaška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I have read into the system as House document 5348. It takes the form of an accompanying resolution and I recommend that we ask the Government of the Czech Republic to transfer in January next year unused money, which this year is intended for investments in transport infrastructure up to 3.5 billion. CZK for co-financing regional roads next year. [[12.20 hours]] Reason: This is how we have been helping regions to repair regional roads for two years. And in two years, more than CZK 7 billion was transferred from state resources, from the state budget, through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. It is such an appropriate motivation and incentive for regions to repair regional roads more, because it is about fixing not only the primary road network, i.e. motorways and roads of the I. class, but also the subsequent transport infrastructure, i.e. the regional road. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u71	Thank you, Mr Klašek. Another duly signed up is Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with an amendment concerning the prison building in Hungary Hradiště. This building, as many have already seen in the media, is a building that is very old and used during communism to torture political prisoners. It's basically empty and decaying since the revolution. It's a monument that deserves a fix and deserves an investment. After all, this is also a matter declared by the Minister of Finance during his visit during the election campaign in Uherské Hradiště, where he and Senator Valenta were catching up with the first to pay for the reconstruction of the prison in Uherské Hradiště. I went over the next year's budget, and I didn't find any item that was allocated to reconstruct this prison. During the visit of Babiš in Uherské Hradiště, a memorandum was created between the city of Uherské Hradiště, the county court, to which the building currently belongs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice on cooperation and the implementation of maximum efforts and finances to repair the prison and create a museum of totalitarianism. Among other things, state institutions should be located in this building. I come up with an amendment to allocate 100 million in the state budget. CZK for the reconstruction of this building, because if no financial amount is prepared for reconstruction, there will be no tender for the future for the company to repair the building. President of the District Court, Mrs. Mgr Kurfiřtová was wrongly accused of not doing so and that she was unnecessarily obstructing the property of the Ministry of Justice, in the administration of the district court, being transferred to the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. This, of course, is not true. It's a lie. I have correspondence between the President of the Court and the State Representation Office in property matters. The President of the Court of First Instance is, of course, willing to transfer the assets to the Office of State representation in property matters so that they can continue to take place in preparations which would lead to the reconstruction of the prison, but insists, for understandable reasons, that there is one single sentence in the Charter, which will actually ensure the transfer of the property, that the district court will be the first state institution to be entitled to move to these premises, because, of course, the premises in which the district court is currently based are absolutely inadequate, mainly for security reasons. So I would read the amendment that you all have in front of you in the state budget materials. It is in the table entitled amendments to the figures on the draft State Budget Act and the draft State Budget for 2017, which the Committee has not adopted. It's serial number 8. Requesting a 100-mile allocation. CZK in favour of modifications to the prison in Uherské Hradiště, so far in the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, the Office for State representation in property matters or the Ministry of Culture. After transfer, if applicable. The Justice Department of the District Court. Money would be drawn from the public treasury, either from the chapter - I have options two. Option 1 - Chapter 398 of the VPS, where expenditure in the EU budget contribution indicator would be reduced. And as variant number 2 - Chapter 398 of the VPS - reduction of expenses under the item compensation to victims of crime, damage caused in the exercise of public authority, litigation under the protection of the person, legal proceedings for limitation of property rights, other compensations. This item is about four times the real requirement each year. I would also like to add to this point that, in fact, because I tabled an amendment to the Committee on Budgets, the debate on the prison in Uherské Hradiště has developed again, and it has been pointed out that the Ministry of Finance has not inadvertently included any amount in the budget, although this has been promised and an amendment by Mr Sedi from social democracy proposed 15 million. Crowns. This amendment has been passed by the Committee on Budgets. Of course I support him. I will continue to support it, but at the same time I would like to ask you to support this amendment, as I mentioned at the outset, because without the allocated funds, there will be no competition, and this project will remain on paper again, and we will talk again about the virtual reconstruction of the prison in Uherské Hradiště, which is absolutely unacceptable to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u74	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the two ministers who have been here to discuss one of the most important laws of the year are left. Ladies and gentlemen, the planned state budget deficit for 2017 is CZK 60 billion. The revenue is 1 249 billion, the expenditure is 1 309 billion. The deficit is indefensible given the level of economic growth, Minister Babiš. The current economic parameters clearly deserve a balanced budget. I was thinking about what led Minister Andrej Babiš to present a budget that is thus deficit, which will make less than CZK 60 billion. I did not really think of any other explanation than that the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš does not believe in himself and is not sure that he would be able to achieve this balanced budget in 2017. Therefore, he has presented a loss-making budget, a deficit budget, and, if he succeeds, he will then pass it off for his victory by reaching a balanced budget. However, he doesn't want to commit, and the uncertainty of it is entirely a cup. Uncertainty of Andrej Babiš. The planned expenditures are CZK 300 billion higher than the government approved by the House a year ago in the medium term. I must also point out that the government is disproportionately increasing budget spending in the future. When the economy does not grow as quickly as it does now, it will cause serious problems and the need to reduce them again, which will be unpopular and painful, will be obvious. [[12.30 hours]] It is clear throughout the budget, in all the chapters in which we are talking that the government is disproportionately increasing expenditure on civil servants' salaries to a total of 300 billion in 2017. First of all, it adds to them, of course, on tariffs, but mainly, and what I criticize in particular, not the 4% as such, but mainly plans to increase the number of civil servants again in 2017. I would like to remind you that under the current government, the number of civil servants has increased by more than 10,000, which, of course, is the Prime Minister's responsibility - I do not see him here - and the governments themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to touch on one part of the budget that falls within the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and this is a matter relating to finances related to the payment of money for the mining area and acquired minerals, so-called. environmental subsidies. As we all remember, it was Minister Andrej Babiš, who especially wanted to increase the money that would leave the mining companies to increase - he first spoke ten times, then of course he succumbed to the lobbying of coal companies and increased only by - I suspect - double the money that was leaving for the earned mineral. I am, of course, the money itself, and all those who live in those locations, let it be about Usteck, let it be about Ostrava, so we expected it to end up in those regions and in those areas where mining damage is needed and the restoration of life in the region affected by mining. What I've been pointing out here has happened, and unfortunately, the money won't end in these regions. He won't end up in Ostrava, he won't end up in Usteck. It will also end in the leaky budget prepared by Minister Andrej Babiš, in this increase in the salaries of civil servants. The money from the acquired mineral, the coal that's being mined there, will end up on the salaries of civil servants, the 10,000 that the government raised. And I can, of course, document it with numbers. Now it's not just idle talk, now it's not some tycoon. Please take a look at the chapter or the indicator of the remuneration of the conquering area and the extracted minerals - ecological subsidies. In 2016, 150 million crowns went to this indicator. In 2017, 54 million crowns are planned, i.e. three times less than this year, despite the increase in the remuneration from the acquired mineral. This means three times less is planned for 2017 for the money that should come to those areas than this year. Of course, I was interested in the Economic Committee as far as possible. How is it possible that the return or the income on the environmental subsidy will be reduced three times? I have been answered by the Ministry of Industry and Trade's staff: It is because the mining is dampening. I can say that either it's a very unqualified explanation or an explanation that really only aims to get the argument off the table. If we all know how mining is going, the moment we stop mining today, that means it's going to have zero revenue, which means that next year it's going to be zero to eliminate mining damage - we all know for sure that's total nonsense. I will try to increase the environmental subsidy and the money that Andrej Babiš has taken from the Ústí Region and which he has taken back to the regions of Ostrava, so that not only the mining damages that have been created there, so that they can be destroyed, so that those people can be better lived there, so that the region can be a place that is at least a little more suitable for people not to leave there, for people to continue living there. I have therefore prepared an amendment which increases the environmental subsidy by CZK 100 million to the CZK 150 million, which was this year. That means there's a $50 million planned for 2017, and I suggest we add the $100 million to keep at least the same amount as it was in 2016. I have drafted this proposal into the amendment that you have in the system under number 5330, and I hereby allow myself to sign up for this amendment and I believe that it will receive the support of all, not only those living in the affected areas in Ostrava and Ústeck. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u75	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u76	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I will now also sign up for my amendment. One, two, three, four, we can almost play taro. [[Looking at the government benches]] No, three. So mariah, once again, is the number of our ministers, is limited here. We talked about it, I'll say, even across the political spectrum, that we're very sorry that it didn't happen before when the most important law was being discussed, which is the budget, so that the whole government should be sitting here. The Minister of Finance is here, I'm glad, but... But the chairman of the budget committee is here watching. I also watch this closely as you do, and I want to say: what I am going to apply to is an amendment relating to an increase in the chapter in the budget of Minister of Culture Herman. I also regret that he is not here right now because he was in the morning, and before I could tell him the report that we want to fight for culture not only in the area of conservation, for which I am glad that an increase in the Committee on Budgets has been approved by a substantial amount, I will admit that I have prepared an amendment which concerns more or less libraries in the Czech Republic. I'll introduce you to him now. My amendment is set out in the system under number 5349. I'll introduce you to him first, and then I'll explain. As the chairman of the Committee on Budgets said at the outset, it is really offset, i.e. I think I've got it all figured out the way it's supposed to be. I therefore have an increase in expenditure in my amendment in favour of Chapter 334, Section 331400 Investment transfers to public budgets of territorial level, public library information services. The proposed increase is 300 million. And now the transfer I want to transfer from to the state budget. The humiliation of expenditure is calculated from Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, salaries of employees and other payments for the work done, in the amount of 100 million. Furthermore, Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, other environmental matters, also 100 million. And third, Chapter 317 of the Ministry of Regional Development, operating expenses, and it's also 100 million. So it's paralyzed by a hundred million. And now my justification, which I will state under number 5349. The field of culture is a matter that has long been of interest to me at the level of local authorities. Of course, regional authorities within the regions as well. I have watched since the beginning of the regions in 2000, how they were able to and were financed by the construction of regional libraries. Historically, we know that many regions have had the opportunity to draw subsidies either from the state budget or from the European Union's money. When I've prepared the whole overview, but I'll admit that I'm not gonna read it all here, that I'm just gonna pick some specific examples out of it to point out exactly which library had the opportunity to draw subsidies from the state budget, or, as I said, from the European Union's funds. [[12.40 hours]] For example, in 2002 the Regional Library was established in Pardubice. At that time it was a subsidy from the State Budget of the Ministry of Culture amounting to 70.5 million. CZK and CZK 4.2 million. provided at that time the Pardubice Region. Or the Regional Science Library in Liberec, where the total costs climbed up to 517 miles. CZK and then this amount was shared by the state together with the European project, i.e. asking for subsidies from the budget of European money. I've got the whole search thing going on, but I really don't want to keep you here today. But I will mention the construction of the Regional Library, for example. in Hradec Králové. It was a study and scientific library, which also serves the citizens of the Hradec Králové Region very well. I'm sure I'm very happy for them. There it was then a sum of 394.5 million, when the region as well as the Ministry of Culture shared these costs. At present, there were no possibilities in the state budget or in the last year to support the construction of libraries, because he also went specifically to Vysočina Region for example a letter asking for a contribution to the construction of the regional library. The answer from the Ministry of Culture was yes, we would like to contribute, but we do not have any corresponding funding in the chapter. So, with your help, I want to contribute to making sure that there is a possibility. That is why I am presenting this amendment here today. But it doesn't just concern the Highlands and the construction of a new regional library. At present, as I have also talked to some of you, they have a problem, for example. in the Moravian-Silesian Region, I am sure that Members from the Moravian-Silesian Region also listen to me, because even there in Ostrava they need to build a new, really full library, which they also consider very important. I will not go far, even the National Library in Prague needs to improve its premises, especially depositories. Even there it is very important, because the momentum is there starting with students and seniors ending with a very significant attendance and it would be worth it. So, at least a brief justification for my amendment, I wanted to tell you this. And I realize it's still Olomouc County. So again, Members, my amendment would also benefit the Olomouc Region, because even there I know that the regional library building is not completely in order, that it deserves either reconstruction or the completion of the building from this chapter. So thank you very much for your attention, I am glad that everyone here has listened to me, and I believe that you will support my amendment. I'll repeat in conclusion, it's number 5349.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u77	Thank you, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr František Laudát. Excuse me, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u78	I'll wait for the Minister to listen to me, and I'll make it in two minutes. I would like to support Jana Fischerová's proposal as a Member for the Moravian-Silesian region. We have years of building a new modern science library. It's a beautiful building called the černý Cube. Unfortunately, the last socialist-communist leadership of the Moravian-Silesian region ignored this construction. One of the main priorities of the new regional coalition is to build the Black Cube. Ostrava is the third largest city in the Republic, she deserves it. It's a promotion of education. And Mrs Fischerová's proposal is, in principle, conservative, the amount is not very high, it is more for the start-up of the buildings than for the realization. I intercede for the State to conduct serious negotiations in particular with the Moravian-Silesian Region, where I am a Member. So the construction could become the pride of the entire region, and it would be a shame if the state didn't support it, even in light of the fact that he's done it many times. It is not a precedent that other regions built their libraries from their own resources and received nothing from the state. So we want to sign up for a good tradition so that if we really mean our words about promoting education and the whole area of education in this broad sense, then we also have to support it in some financial way. The proposed amount, I say, is not very high, it will certainly not be enough, but it would be enough for public contracts to be launched to be negotiated between a particular region and a state way of financing in individual years, and I think it would really benefit the education and promotion of higher education in the regions concerned. This is where I address you, including you from the other regions. We really need this library. If you are interested, come to Ostrava to see the conditions under which the existing library works. It's on rent, and when it was made more than 50 years ago, it was said to be a provisional. And that makeshift takes more than half a century. I think that at the moment of economic growth, when we have enough revenue, we can afford it. [[Time warning]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u79	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my colleague Stanjura, but I would like to clarify that the effort is not only there during the past period, but since 2000, when the regions were established. It is true that the Hirošima, who remained behind the unfinished secretariat, is already decaying, and I must say that at least some meaningful knowledge would be realized. Unfortunately, time, of course, touched on this unfinished construction and required some resources to keep it in that state. So the situation needs to be dealt with urgently, because the library, which is needed not only by Ostrava, but by the entire Moravian-Silesian Region and all universities, not just by the two that are public in Ostrava, need it. So I'm interrogating myself for that. But I would point out that this failed effort is not just a so-called effort. coalition ČSSD - KSČM, but also previous efforts under the leadership of ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u81	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u82	Okay, now that we're in the debate, I'm gonna tell you what happened. Our coalition announced an architectural competition, obtained a zoning decision, a building permit, a public contract, and we had a financing agreement. The funding at that time was about 500 miles. from the money of the European Union, 490 million. from the state budget and about 200 million. from the regional budget. But sometimes there are elections, we didn't have enough to compete, not that we didn't start it - we started it, we didn't have enough to compete, virtually. It was at the time of the construction boom, the bids were too high and we canceled the competition precisely because of the high bidding price of all the applicants at the time, I must say. And then, to our surprise, the new leadership, which was there for eight years, the coalition ČSSD - KSČM, just canceled this project. I think it's terrible damage for the county. However, there is a project, at this point there is also a political will, and we need to reinvent the financing model, because it is unrealistic for the entire construction to be financed by the region or the regional city. It is unrealistic for such a large construction to be financed only by the Moravian-Silesian Region and the city of Ostrava possibly. It is necessary to involve state money and see if there is any possibility of joining European resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u83	Thank you, honourable Member. The President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors of František Laudát are next enrolled in the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u84	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refrain from commenting on the draft state budget. More or less, what has been decided by the Economic Committee, I have turned into some specific things, and I want to read to you four amendments that have passed through the political spectrum and the economic committee. First amendment. I propose that Chapter 375 of the State Nuclear Safety Authority be increased by 22 702 thousand. CZK, at the expense of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury. In particular, the heading of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, the social expenditure item, compensation, non-profit and similar organisations - a reduction of 22 702 thousand. Crowns. Reason. The expenditure of the State Institute for Nuclear Safety is insufficient, the needs are covered by unused funds from approved projects that have been delayed for various reasons. Therefore, in the implementation of these often and contracted projects, these funds will be missing for other necessary costs of the organisation. This request was supported by the Economic Committee in its resolution on 2. 11. 2016 in the political agreement of all present. Amendment number two. Chapter 374 Administration of State Material Reserves. Increase in this chapter by 375 million. Crowns. 300 miles of it. CZK to replenish oil and oil products and 75 million. CZK to increase emergency stocks, at the expense of Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, namely from the item expenditure on ensuring the fulfilment of the tasks of the central authority, by those 375 million. Crowns. Reason. The international situation has been deteriorating very rapidly in recent years. Our Republic must respond to this by providing sufficient supplies of strategic raw materials and products. Grown countries have oil and oil supplies for 120 days. Today, our Republic has just over 90 days of reserves, and even against the previous years, this reserve has fallen from 97 days. A sensible and gradual increase in strategic stocks and modernisation of emergency stocks should be a priority for the government. For example, night vision sources for night lighting are considerably outdated and long overtaken in terms of efficiency and reliability. The purchase of petroleum products is economically advantageous at the current low price and can bring back revenues in the future. This proposal is supported by the resolution of the Economic Committee of 2. 11. 2016. Another suggestion. I propose to humiliate in Chapter 327 the Ministry of Transport a cross-cutting indicator of expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system by a total of CZK 33 525 128 434. It is item 6332/§ 2299 relating to investment grants from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which are subsequently granted to final beneficiaries. The resulting balance of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport is zero crowns. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Reason. In spite of its disagreement, the Ministry of Transport was forced to reintegrate all investment subsidies provided by the SFDI into the cross-cutting indicator of expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system. This procedure substantially changes long-term proven financial flows and negatives prevail there. The reason why investment funds provided by the Fund through programming funding can not be carried out can be included in the following points. If I could have a little peace of mind...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u85	I'm so sorry. Please, my dear colleagues and my dear colleagues, calm down in the Chamber. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u86	Yes. One. SFDI finances projects in accordance with the budget approved by the Chamber of Deputies and progresses in the provision of funds to the final beneficiary in accordance with Act No. 104/2000 Sb. and the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Two. The subsidy from the budget of the Ministry of Transport to the budget of the SFDI is not and cannot be defined factually, which is one of the terms of the programme financing under Act No. 218/2000 Coll., budgetary rules. Three. The State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, to which investment subsidies for the Transport Operational Programme projects 2014-2020 and CEF from the budget of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport are provided, is an intermediate entity, not the final beneficiary of the subsidy. Four. The Ministry of Transport has already approved manuals of working procedures at OPD 2014-2020 and the Ministry of Finance agreed audit output of design. Five. The financing of the OPD 2014-2020 and the CEF has already started in accordance with approved manuals. Thus, not according to the EDS/SMVS programme financing procedures. Six. There is no relevant reason to change the established system, which has already been proven in the implementation of the OPD 2007-2013. For the next one. In our opinion, the EDS/SMVS database is not a tool for management, but it is only a record of data in one of the other information systems. Monitoring of all data on projects financed from EU sources is carried out in detail in the MS2014+ information system as well as through records in the accounting of the State. For the next one. The huge increase in the agenda at the SFDI at the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, which cannot be ensured without the previous increase in the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Transport and SFDI and probably at the Ministry of Finance, also carries a significant increase in operating costs. And for the last one. The duplication of administration is a challenge and a considerable delay in the implementation of the OPD 2014-2020 and CEF, without any added value in terms of the efficiency of spending management. So much design number three. And design number four. The accompanying resolution to Chapter 327 of the State Budget - Ministry of Transport for 2017 was also recommended or voted positively by the Economic Committee. Amendment of the Railway Authority. I propose an increase in wage money of 6 million. CZK 2,160 thousand. CZK accessories for Railway Office staff. This step would definitely help address the unhappy situation in the field of recruitment of relevant experts, thus making the Railway Authority a more promising employer. I propose to increase this amount at the expense of the road maintenance item, as follows. Proposal to increase binding indicators from the draft state budget, Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport, Staff salaries and other payments for the work done plus 6 million. CZK, salaries of employees in service places under the Civil Service Act plus 6 million. CZK, compulsory insurance premiums paid by employer plus 2 040 thousand. CZK and transfer of the fund of cultural and social needs plus 120 thousand. CZK to the expense of the Ministry of Transport for the maintenance of the I. class roads. In this repair and maintenance item 5171/§ 221200 minus 8 160 thousand. Crowns. Also, as I have already pointed out, it has been recommended and the Ministry of Transport does not even have a problem with that. At least that was the way his representatives acted on the Economic Committee. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u87	I thank President Laudát. With a factual remark, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Just a heads-up for my colleague. However, the last amendment has already been approved by the Committee on Budgets, so it is a bit redundant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u89	Okay, it's 12 o'clock 59 minutes. There are still, I have announced, three entries, including the President of the ODS. It's 13 o'clock. So I'm interrupting this point and interrupting the House meeting within 14 hours of 30 minutes with the organizational committee meeting at 13.05. Please, members of the Organizing Committee to Room 107. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u90	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I wish you a good experience after certainly a good lunch. We will continue to discuss item No. 2, the State Budget for 2017, its second reading. We are in a detailed debate and another duly entered into a detailed debate is Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to sign up for my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 5353. This is an amendment to which I would like to transfer 200 million from the government debt management chapter, Chapter 396, to Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, a university indicator. The aim is to move funds to raise salaries in higher education institutions. We have already had one such amendment from our colleague Bělobrádek, so I assume that is also the interest of the entire government coalition. In fact, with an increase in the salaries of teachers in regional education, there is a situation where the tariff salaries of higher education teachers are, in most cases, lower than those of secondary school teachers. Then there is a situation where college teachers leave our universities to teach in high school. I have specific cases if you want to ask people who have decided to leave college and go to high school because they get much more stable conditions. They have an indefinite contract, and they don't have that much to worry about. The proposed increase should target the Ministry of Education to increase the salaries of higher education teachers, as was the case at the end of 2016, that is, this year when the Minister received an extra 260 million. and sent them to college for pay. However, the increase in the amount by 260 million. This year, which took place, proved to be insufficient and did not correspond by far to the increase that occurred in the regional education segment. A personal experience again. We received money from this money from the faculty that had to be shared among our employees. And I can say that the money we have received is not enough to raise wages so that we can make up for what is after the increase in regional education. For 2017 there is money in the State Budget in the chapter of the Ministry of Education for universities increase compared to last year 260 million, which, of course, according to personal experience will not be enough. It won't cover the costs that should go to college. For this reason, I propose to strengthen the Ministry of Education chapter aimed at increasing the salaries of higher education educators by another 200 million. Thus, the total amount that the Ministry of Education should send to salaries could purposely increase the salaries of higher education educators would be 460 mil. Crowns. And that's the amount I can imagine getting us to roughly the level of salary increases in regional education. So once again, it's an amendment that's in the system under number 5353. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u92	Thank you, Mr Vách. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. I would like to apply to my amendment, which I ask for a reduction in the budget of the specific indicator of Chapter 315, it is the Ministry of the Environment, from tax revenue by an amount of 30 million and, on the other hand, an increase in this indicator to non-tax income, again by 30 million. This is a transfer within specific indicators... [[Some colleagues take pictures of Members.]] Media interest excellent. They say it's the best in the end. So this is a shift within the specific indicators in the chapter of the Ministry of Environment. The reason for this is from the interdepartmental commentary procedure submitted by the amendment to Decree 323 of 2002. I believe that this amendment is not in any conflict and that it will be approved without any problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u94	I thank Mr Oklešťek. I'll read some more apologies. I'm registering President Stanjura's application. Mr Jiří Koubek apologizes today between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologises today from 18.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Simeon Karamazov apologises for today's negotiations and from the afternoon meeting 1. 12. for personal reasons, Mr Jan Klán apologizes on Wednesday 30 November at 18 o'clock for personal reasons. That was an apology. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u95	Thank you for the floor. It's not with priority rights. I waited for everyone to comment on the draft state budget in front of me. And let me now describe in more detail the position or the basic position of our parliamentary club. At the very beginning, I want to sign up for the amendment, but I'm sorry, I left the number there. I'll be right back. [[He's going back to the material bench.]] The amendment contained in House document number 5347. As you know, there is only one particular Member who can insert the amendment, but I want to say that this is an amendment that I am making on behalf of the entire Members' Club. In this proposal, as we announced in the first reading, we bring a proposal for savings of CZK 30 billion. All savings of CZK 30 billion are directed to the chapter and items of the government debt service. That means, if we save money, we can use it to service the state debt. This is only formally to sign up for the amendment. First, a few general remarks on the draft budget and then I will try to justify and explain the amendments in more detail. I would perhaps like to say that our amendments did not go to areas that we consider to be a priority. This means that none of our amendments in the savings of 30 billion is directed to security, whether it is internal or defence. None of our amendments goes to any level of school education. These are areas that deserve support. We weren't really looking for savings here. [[14.40 hours]] On the contrary, in the area of defence, our Vice-President of the Club has made a proposal this morning, giving detailed reasons for the increase in defence funds of 10 billion. Just a reminder, one billion were intended for Military Intelligence, especially for cybersecurity, and 9 billion were directed to the Army of the Czech Republic itself. But this is a separate amendment which has already been introduced to you and which we will vote on separately. I mean, the numbers that I'm going to present and I'm going to talk about... [[The speaker is silent and waiting for Mr Jandak to close the call at the rapporteur's table.]] I'm not in a hurry. I said I'm in no hurry, it's okay. I assumed the government coalition was in more hurry than the opposition, but it looks like it wasn't. I mean, the numbers I'm going to use are numbers that are based only on the House's 921, i.e. draft state budget. They're not opposition numbers. And we should definitely look at those basic parameters that are discussed every year. We could start, for example, by making record spending of the state budget - 1 309, or if you want to round 1,310 billion expenditures. Now, just remember, when we sometimes propose some measure in the order of ten, one hundred, two hundred, three hundred million or, for example, the abolition of some unnecessary tax, whose revenue takes five or eight or nine billion, we often hear the government's reasoning: This is not possible with regard to the budget, the state's revenue, the state's expenditure. And on top of that, take the base number of 1,310 billion outputs. The number is really huge. I've already said somewhere that the budget clearly corresponds to the fact that it's election year. That is why the budget is drawn up in this way, which is why the deficit I was talking about in my first speech is so high. I asked the Minister of Finance if he would show us the 60 billion savings. Well, the result is he didn't show them any savings. Then we can tell ourselves how seriously he means that if I could and if it weren't for the socans, it would be a balanced draft budget. None of us has as much information on the state budget as the Minister of Finance and his office. And yet no proposal I didn't even propose in the form of an amendment, but at least say to the microphone, if it were up to me and the Social Democrats didn't want to spend that much, I'd make $60 billion here. Unfortunately, nothing. And that is one of the reasons why we did not vote for the basic parameters of the second reading budget and why we are also coming up with the basic amendment. I must say that it is not easy to look for 30 billion savings from the opposition. It's not quite simple, we don't have expert teams at the various ministries, there's no one who would immediately respond to a specific item when they ask what exactly is this hundred million, what is that fifty million. So the job's pretty complicated, but we still took it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u96	I'm very sorry, but I'm asking my colleague and colleagues to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u97	We found the proposal last year and I am really looking forward to reading the facts of 2016 at the beginning of January and comparing it with your December 2015 arguments when you rejected the savings because it is not possible. I think the reality of the financial year will show that we were right. We did the same job this year, and we wanted to propose a return to the government's state budget to redefine the spending and deficit by 30 billion, so I'm going to introduce you to this 30 billion. What is interesting is that tax quotas are increasing. Both a simple tax quota and a compound tax quota. At the same time, there is no significant tax change and GDP is growing, so you who know the methodology for calculating a simple tax or compound tax quota must be as surprised as I am. And that increase against the approved budget of 2016 is actually the whole deficit. The increase against this year, against the approved budget of this year - we will see what will be the reality - is by 58.5 billion. So if you were just being restrained and disciplined, you wouldn't have to cut anywhere, and the draft budget could have been balanced. We've got this favorite repeat debate about capital spending. You, many of our opinion opponents, often argue and argue with these figures, and I deliberately await either the November results in the first eleven months, or maybe we wait until the result for the whole year and ask the Minister for a more detailed description of the capital expenditure in writing, because I think we need to know exactly the data first, and then we can have a really well-founded debate on whether it is improving again or getting worse. And we all know it was an anomaly in 2015. That's clear to all of us, no one is questioning that, the last year of the first programming period. But what we don't know anymore, at least we ordinary Members, how much of these expenses were really invested, physically invested money in 2015 and how many of them were billed capital expenditures. This is what we are talking about, in particular, the expenditure financed by European funds. You all know that many actions have been prefinanced from the state budget, regional or municipal budgets. Only at the time of certification and release of money came to the Czech Republic. And if we don't know exactly when the investment took place, exactly who paid it, and when European money came, then we can really pass in interpreting how capital spending has been going on in the various years of the state budget. Therefore, we are preparing a written interview where we will be asking for 2015 and 2016. We're going to want a list of all the investment expenses and we're going to ask, we're going to want information on when the action started, when it was completed, when it was paid to the supplier and from what sources and when European money came to it. Then we are able to objectively assess whether the capital expenditure situation is improving or not. But, well, let's not forget 2015, which has been exceptional for many reasons, and let's look at the development of capital expenditure since 2012, 2013, 2014, we've already left the 2015 out of our thoughts, we already have a reality, and we can compare it with the proposed budget of 2017. And that comparison cannot be enjoyed even by government MPs. 2012 - you know what economic problems the whole world, Europe and the Czech Republic was in. The reality of capital expenditure was less than 114 billion, the plan for next year after a few years of economic growth is 10 billion lower. By 10 billion, which is almost 10 percent down. If you look, you'll find that the difference between the national resources of 2012, when there was such a difficult economic situation, and 2017 when the economy grows for several years, is just 4 billion plus. Only $4 billion. So, against last year alone, expenditure developments are plus 60 billion, but against 2012, national investment resources and capital spending have increased by just 4 billion, which is incredibly little. If we look at the year 2013 and you see the total cost of the state budget, it was 1,173 billion. Next year, 1,310 billion. The difference of 150 billion and from that national resources and investment only 4 billion, plus 150. So basically, operating expenses plus 146 approximately, capital expenditure plus 4 billion. And that's quite a few. When we compare GDP, which in 2012 was around 4 trillion 60 billion, and here for next year it is about 750 billion higher, then we must inevitably ask questions, and I will ask that question in a moment, what is the share of GDP not only in defence, which Jana Černochová spoke about, but also in research, science and innovation expenditure. [[14.50 hours]] Even there, in the years of abundance, when the economy grows and works much better, the share of GDP not only stagnates but unfortunately falls. If you look at the draft state budget and look for example. for operating expenditure under the appropriation for salaries and job numbers of ministries, so you will find that, against this year alone, the increase in these jobs will be 7 637 more next year, almost 8 000, so that I do not say such an exact item. In some departments it seems justified, understandable and justified and in some not. And I want to ask specific questions. Unfortunately, ministers can't play marias anymore, there's two of them. [[A voice from the diaper: three!]] Two. There's not a single minister on two coalition sides. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Well, the rapporteur will help -- you have to negotiate with the Prime Minister to be a minister, so it's not so simple that you sign up and you're already sitting on that bench. I want to ask the Prime Minister, maybe even a new minister without a portfolio, see what happens with the job, we'll see about that - plus 76 seats. Why in the Office of the Government plus 76 seats? I want to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - plus 746 jobs from year to year, 746! We have record low unemployment, employers cannot get employees, 746 new jobs at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Madam Secretary isn't here. He's pumping the largest share of the state's spending budget, and he's not here. I really don't understand. Because I want to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs why there are so many jobs growing in her department, I don't want to ask the Minister of Finance because it's the Minister's responsibility. I could ask the new Minister of Health, I don't know if today, but okay - plus 122 employees. That's not a small number for a resort like that. I could ask the Minister of Justice who didn't come, either, plus 450 employees. I'm not saying, or we're not saying there's a zero, but if we don't get a specific answer, how can we agree with that amount and that amount of jobs? The Treasury Department, so I don't forget - 604 employees. I don't know, Minister, how much was last year, but that was a similar number, wasn't it? From year to year, from year 2015 to year 2016. Well, maybe if they judge the flat-rate tax applications, we'll need 600 of them, that's possible, I really don't know, but that's the number the Minister can answer, because that's his resort. Total number 7 637. This, of course, involves spending on these jobs. So during the operation of this government, we got jobs from 413 000 to 444 928, so 445 000, an increase of almost 32 000 employees, which is more than 8 percent. If you look at the amount of wages that it costs the state budget and which it mainly costs taxpayers, the state budget is just a means, then we're 132 billion. in 2012 for an amount of 162 billion. in 2017. That's 30 billion. To be fair, since 2013, since the start of this government, the difference is 27.7 billion, but annually! 27,7 billion a year. So let's figure out how much it does in one term. I have spoken, and I have to give specific figures for the development of expenditure on research, development and innovation. So in 2013, 0.97% of GDP, and I count it, including foreign resources. In 2017 - we have the Vice Prime Minister here, he praised how well this increases - we are at 0.83% of GDP. So answer the question yourself whether minus 0.14% of GDP is an increase or a reduction. I think it's perfectly clear. Of course I can use absolute numbers and fencing absolute numbers that occur e.g. against 2013 in the area of national resources to increase by 5.5 billion. That's right. But the key parameter internationally recognised, which, among other things, is also used for defence spending, is the ratio to GDP. But, as the classic says, I only believe in the statistics that I'm going to process, or adjust myself, so we can actually say that in absolute terms, the amount has increased, but in proportion to GDP, not only has it not held up, but it has fallen. And now let's just answer for ourselves what it would mean to just keep this number 0,97. That's 0.14 - I'm gonna count it out of my head this fast, so my guess would be between five and six billion. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and I were here this year at the opening ceremony of the academic year in Opava. I'm so glad Mr. Vice Prime Minister was there. The Rector in his opening words - he is a mathematician, respectively. economists, not mathematicians, economists, but statistics - he talked about numbers. It's often not as fascinating as when you talk about something else. And he just said that, despite everything the government says, how much money it increased to public universities, that if we wanted to get to the level of about 2009, that amount would have to be 5 billion. taller. I didn't count it, there's no reason I shouldn't trust the Rector, he also had specific numbers there, and he counted on a number of students, which, of course, is a very important parameter that we need to take into account in support of higher education. So it's just the government's commendation, as it gives more money for research, development, innovation, minus 0.14% of GDP. And when I said a moment ago that GDP is estimated to be almost five beatings, you're going to find that the amount isn't marginal, and it's not very small in the absolute numbers. Now, let's go to the amendments. I will be the first to talk about the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs resort, where we propose a total savings - now I have to add it up - 4.1 billion, and we are still quite friendly and understanding. Because I don't know which one of you - certainly all members of the Social Committee - read the chapter in detail. First of all, the increase in employees since 2014 is 500, 500 employees, and we believe that this is an unjustified, inexcusable, unwarranted increase. This is an increase in operating expenditure between the three years 2014-2017 by approximately 300 million. Crowns. This is about a year's operation of five larger organisations that provide social services. Other MPSV authorities are also recruiting human resources, but it is not as massive as it is at the Ministry itself. From the budget e.g. cannot be accurately calculated the amount of the work and social affairs research institute. [[15.00 hours]] At a time, and this is the most interesting, at a time when - I was talking about it - when record employment is record low unemployment, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is increasing unemployment contributions in the budget. I don't understand how this could have gone through the government. The government is expecting some massive layoffs next year? I don't believe it. So how is it that unemployment contributions are increasing, not by a small amount? It should be said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has actually resigned from addressing the situation in the field of material emergency and those so many times discussed residential hotels. Several times, we offered, for example, a ceiling of CZK 1,000 per month and a bed at the hostel. Only with this would the savings be 5 billion in just two years. Crowns. Instead, we are inventing a senseless concept of social housing that plans additional spending for municipalities. That means different, not state. And in an area where immediate savings are possible, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has completely resigned. Let's look at the proposal in this chapter on the resources allocated to IT systems. The Minister promised media that from 1 January 2017, there would be new systems that would be much cheaper than the existing ones. The situation is that there are no new systems, so there are no savings. But that's not gonna happen in the public debate anymore. As long as a few months ago, the secretary said I'm gonna overcompete, and the savings will be. Reality, however, is completely different. What is surprising is not only the question of the budget, but rather the political decisions and considerations, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has five contribution organisations that provide social services. The basic question is: Is the State supposed to provide social services? Is the Ministry supposed to provide social services through five contribution organisations? Our answer is clear. He doesn't. He doesn't. These are precisely the services with which the non-profit sector or municipalities and regions can handle. There is no reason for the state to continue to have these five contribution organizations. And maybe you could just transfer them to the edge. We're not saying they're supposed to cancel without a replacement. But we don't think that's the role of the state in this area. I think some of my colleagues have already talked about this in the morning's debate. Let us stop at the question of employees' salary in direct service care. These are people who are very valuable to society, who do great services. This job is extremely hard. I personally have visited several organizations that provide these social services and really hat down. But the reward is extremely low. And there are other groups that are more successful in their pressure, maybe they're better organized, maybe they're more media-interesting, but these are amounts that are averaged below 20 thousand. Gross a month. I think that's the area we should all be focusing on. Very often there are people in this area who belong to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Services and also to the Ministry of Health. There is a clear inequality. And the government approaches this by adding, on average, 10 percent to people who work and provide healthcare, and 4 percent to those who work and provide social care. That means the scissors between salaries in one and the other areas not only don't stay the same or they don't get closer, but they're even more open. And I think we need to talk about these people, and we need to make them better rewarded, because the work is really very hard. There can't be an argument that there's no money. There's about 50 grand of these people. It's not as big an organized group as it is in other areas. So you can count for yourself: 50 thousand, 20 thousand. Gross a month, or a little less, as much as it does. It is an amount that the state budget can afford. And I think we can say for all of you: for the Czech Republic to co-finance social welfare, we do. It's just that we put it on the priority list and don't be afraid to join it. Maybe it's not so voterly attractive. But that shouldn't be our only clue - whether anyone can hear more or see more and someone less. There is, of course, a reserved amount in the budget for the payment of pensions. It's perfectly all right. It's consistent with the laws, government regulations and all that. I don't want to talk about the amount. I want to talk about the fact that we have almost 3 million citizens who are receiving some kind of pension. If I have a good number, by 30 September this year, it was 2,880 677 citizens. What I blame this government for is that it was unable to come up with any draft conceptual solution. Yes, she canceled our solution. It is also a lesson for us for the next parliamentary term that, on the issue of pensions and pensions, we are to seek a broader political consensus than the current standing majority or the 100-member majority in the Chamber of Deputies. That the system, in our opinion, deserves a thorough revision. A much wider spectrum of political parties and political forces must agree on such reform. A change like this has to be prepared in the long run, and it can't be made from day to day. There must definitely be long transitional periods. And let's talk about whether that long transition period is 15 or 20 years. I just want to say that what's not fair in these debates is that mostly when there's a debate about pension reform or pension system, there's a shot of our current retirees. It must be said that they will not be affected by any change in the system. The footage we're seeing on TV that's behind the debates should go to the playgrounds of the kids. Those are the ones that can be touched by change. Thirty-somethings today, thirty-fives. These are the ones for whom it becomes up to date what the pension system will be when they retire. I found out that your potůčkův commission is working on a material called a travel map these days. I saw the questions that came up on individual political parties, and it seemed to me like a pre-election survey of the ideas of other political parties so that I could possibly implement it into my program. Would you change something, and if you did, how? Are you up for this to change, and if so, how? Well, we sort of answered, quite generally. Because we don't want to read our ideas in other political programs. But it seems a little late. After three years of government's operation, ask questions to political parties about what they would have imagined doing with the pension system. So the proper name of the commission would be the Commission for the abolition of the second pillar. I don't know why you're resisting it. It was your political opinion. You canceled the second pillar, okay. But there is no committee to discuss and look for a sustainable pension system together. And I could give a very detailed description of the individual benefits of our social system and ask very detailed questions as to why this is not done, why it does not increase the address of the social benefits. But unfortunately, you see it as much as I do. I'm not supposed to ask who. I really don't. There's no one here from MPSV. So much for the proposed savings in the MPSV area. I don't know when the secretary is coming. I hope it will be during the third reading. I'll ask her during the third reading. If you think I'm repeating myself, the mistake is not on my side, but on the side of absent members of the government. [[15.10 hours]] When I criticised a disproportionate and pointless proposal to increase the number of employees at the Office of the Government, it goes without saying that our amendment also includes savings on the part of operating or wage spending at the Office of the Government. Likewise, because the Ministry of Finance is to set an example - and it does not set an example to other ministries - so our package of amendments also proposes a wage saving, that is, operating expenditure, in the chapter of the Ministry of Finance. Let's try to stop at an interesting sum and an interesting item - and it's not really going to the Minister of Finance right now, so I'd like him to see it that way. The item is called the support of the agrifood complex in total. And if you know how much money there is in the draft budget? More than 40 billion. Take a look at the development of this item, all of you, and I say it's quite as it develops and increases in recent years. This is where we designed the savings of another $5 billion. Other expenditures proposed relate to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. - There's no one to ask again. That's a difficult debate then. In fact, those members of the government for social democracy who remain in the government, in the Prime Minister's opinion, are not tired, should be full of strength, full of energy, and therefore present in the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the draft state budget. There is quite an incredible item, or rather an incredible item with an incredible sum. Non-investment transfers to non-financial business entities - legal entities, or subsidies. And that amount is almost 30 billion crowns. Nearly half of the proposed deficit consists of subsidies for non-investment - non-investment - that is not a subsidy for an investment or co-financing of an investment - to entrepreneurs. Here are huge savings options. We propose to remove just one third and save $10 billion. Even so, leave an extraordinarily high amount of $20 billion. I would like to ask Minister Mládek about the details of this item. What does he mean by that? Who's he trying to support typologically? What are these non-investment expenses going to be used for? But we don't have anyone to ask. Respectfully, I'll ask, but there's no answer. And then there are a few final proposals that you will read in Houses document 5347, which we will debate if ministers are present at the third reading. I would like to call on members of the ANO 2011 parliamentary movement. You guys used your chairman's mouth to talk about the balanced budget, the 60 billion. There's only half of what you'd like without the other government parties. So I would like you to seriously consider not throwing it in the trash right now just because opposition citizens are proposing it. As I was saying at the beginning, we chose areas that we consider priority areas where we didn't even look for the savings. We'd find absurdities in every chapter. I think maybe this morning Petr Bendl, when he was describing some small things, but it's not a small thing - the equipment of the Deputy Secretary's apartment for 1.1 million, it doesn't seem like a small thing to me. It's a small matter in terms of the total cost of the state budget, no doubt, yes. So believe me, in every chapter like this, we'd find... And maybe the ministers don't even know about it for every single crown in every ministry. But here's a chance to cut the deficit by 30 billion. I fear that the government coalition as a whole, not everyone, but as a whole, will refuse to hear it during the next election year: well, the planned deficit was much higher, but we manage much better. That's supposed to be the scenario. We'll see. We can say this in May, June, July next year, whether it will come true or not. What a prognosis. If the Minister of Finance says that we found that $30 billion somewhere where it's hugely important and it's not good to take it from that item, it's possible. But we were expecting his 60 billion. That's where we'd either meet, or we'd be willing to make a recommendation from the Treasury Secretary, where he thinks he can save himself. We don't have a patent on reason. As I was saying, looking for savings without the Ministry's professional apparatus is not an easy thing to do. Still, we tried to do it honestly. And the House Press 5347 is available and I ask you to consider it. [[document]] If you accept that the arguments are serious, I think, for example, in the MPSV area, it's obvious, so let's put the money on the service of the state debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u98	Thank you, too. Mr President, Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek is reporting now. Please, you have the floor. And it's the last one entered into the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u99	Mr President, colleagues. Mr President, I would like to thank President Stanjur by your means for mentioning the money that goes on science and research. Indeed, as far as the percentage of GDP is concerned, it is necessary to realise that there is national money and public money. Basically, the ODS governments also had a resolution that should be one percent of national money, and that was then cancelled and it was actually converted into public money, that is, the sum of national money and money from European funds, and in previous years, when it was important to draw money from European funds, it was actually one percent drawn from European funds, and that money was actually already commuting and going again. This means that we have found ourselves in some intermediate space, where the item of European money has played a relatively small role, but in the following years, 2017, 2018, 2019, we can expect a significant peak increase. And we are also counting on that in the budget, that it is already with the money that will be used to co-finance these European projects. From this point of view, it can be assumed that even the percentage of GDP is not from the national budget, but will go up in that sum. However, I understand. Our objective is undoubtedly, and I admit that we should get one percent out of this national budget, because we are basically already preparing a budget and a system for the fact that, after 2020 and 2023, European money will be commuting again, and what happens next is uncertain. And apparently, the money that can be used from European money to increase in science and research will be considerably less. That is why we are also strengthening institutional funding and preparing the system. That is why we have already made a unique view of seven years, which was not exactly because it is not in the budgetary rules, the long-term financing. However, we want to prepare the system so that there is no depression during the blackout then from European funds. So I partly agree with you, but this argument - it really needs to be separated from national and public money. Otherwise, of course, I agree. As for the number of people at the Office of the Government, I would just like to say that we really need to distinguish which officials we think are. I would like to say that by taking it into our own direction, we have taken on several officials, we have abolished outsourcing, so we have saved about 70 million from not continuing the contract. And now, even though we bought servers that we have new employees, we're at 50 percent of the costs that were before. There is always a need to look not only at the numbers, but also at the total cost, not only at the number of employees, but at the effect. So in this, if you're interested, I'll give you the data we've been working on, and that even though some of the employees have been added, we're at 50 percent of the operating costs in the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u100	Now also President Kalousek, then President Stanjura. They volunteered in that order, so it shows me my device. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a brief remark. Vice-President Bělobrádek has now covered it in a cloud of accounting methodology. I don't want to argue with that. I just want to say that regardless of whether national or public money is a statistically conclusive fact that for 2017, the government is budgeting a smaller percentage of GDP for science and research than it has budgeted and spent the government preceding in the time of the deepest economic crisis. That this absolutely unforgivably low number contrasts sharply with the tens of percent increase in wasted money called non-investment subsidies to business entities named social benefits, which are called salaries for the new 30,000 civil servants. Unfortunately, there are the real priorities and priorities that Vice-President Bělobrádek here is trying to defend by accounting methodology, they are not really government priorities. That's understandable. I'm ready to put the numbers on the table. These are the Ministry of Finance numbers, and it shows that your priority is not science and research, that your priority is primarily subsidies to selected business groups that will be dealt with, that your priority is social benefits and that your priority is salaries for the new 30,000 civil servants. There are tens of billions of increased spending that you have even increased here compared to medium-term developments. This is not science and research, it is not education, it is not expenditure that leads to the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. These are just your campaign gifts, and that's what your budget is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u102	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u103	I'd like to thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I said I wanted to ask about the numbers. I'm not saying it's supposed to be zero automatically, but I need more detailed information from a particular minister on why it increases the number of employees. But we're talking about 2017 and I'm sure you're talking about what's already happened. I mentioned in the figures both the share of GDP and the share of national resources, and I said that according to national sources, it increased by 5 billion. Since 2013, so I think I've given correct facts, correct figures. But he won't give it to me. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you said you canceled outsourcing, you saved. However, this does not justify the number of employees next year. But the key question is how it works. I have information that quality is not very good. We must assess not only the price but also the performance. The old standard, I'm judging the quality-price ratio, is a very proven method. The information I have at my disposal says that maybe there's a better price, but there's worse quality. And now it's about what we prefer, whether we have a balanced relationship, so that we have good quality at a good price. I don't consider having poor quality for savings at a low price.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u104	Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I will answer through you to President Stanjur. Our new information system is fully operational. Now we're just finishing up those functions that are beyond the law, which are not our legal obligation. We were awarded a special eGovernment award for this new information system. I don't think quality's bad. Of course, we are trying to defuse all childhood diseases. [[Note from the diaper in the right side of the hall.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u106	I'd like you not to discuss outside the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u107	I'll give you more details, if necessary, but it was an award. It was handed over by the Deputy Director of the Interior, who is responsible for the state administration. He handed it over to our office, which means I don't think it's entirely marginal. Of course, GDP growth is dramatic as far as GDP is concerned. And once again, we have to measure what absolute amounts are. I said that we could not be completely satisfied, and also until the next years, the outlook, the further increase in GDP percentage in the coming years is much more pronounced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u108	Mr. Kalousek. Is that fair enough, or do you want priority rights? [[Member Kalousek: I hope I can fit in two minutes.]] I'll take that as a priority right so we don't complicate it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u109	I have said my opinion that I am prepared to demonstrate by specific figures on priorities that science and research are not really the priorities of this government for 2017. If the government says so, please know that it is not telling the truth, because this is an item that may be growing absolutely, but does not grow relative to items that are growing absolutely and relatively and have nothing to do with the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. Again, the fastest growing item is non-investment subsidies to selected business groups. Yes, they're better off. That's hard facts. That's not what I'm saying. And that is in the figures you have before you, in the numbers of this budget that you approve. And now to the clerks. I apologize because I was already almost old structure - 26 years in the system - and one of my first roles as a civil servant when I started in 1990, it was Vice-President Bělobrádek who was still in primary school when I joined the Czech Government, so one of my first tasks was the proposal to change the financing of Czech science. I was one of those pens that really defined in the law that was then passed, the Council of the Government for Science and Research and the Grant Agency. At the Office of the Government at that time, after these laws were passed, it was administered by a single official. His name was Dr. Blažka. I didn't like him because I thought he was lazy. I want to apologize to him today, because even though he was alone, he did three times as much work as the 50 Bělobrádkův officials today. Up to there we got it in the efficiency of administration of Czech science and research. That's just the way it is! And it can be traced backwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u110	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, I must reject the words of President Kalousek through you. Dr. Blažka is still a little bit in the system. We're working with him externally. However, I refuse that he would have done more work then the 50 officials who are there. The agenda has grown. For example, we have an intelligent specialisation strategy, national innovation platforms have grown, sectoral debates are here, individual programmes are created, and individual challenges are created, based on a structured debate that has been going on for more than two years, which is just coming out of the way of what really needs and is being written on the basis of individual sectors. I would also like to refer you to the way the Confederation of Industry and Transport and other important institutions have taken a stand on the draft budget, how they have worked with us and discussed it. So I don't think your assessment is fair. Of course, more can be done, more money can be poured, but it is also important that the money is poured into a system that is not full of holes and the money is somehow not lost purposelessly. So structural changes go hand in hand with it. I am convinced that even what the reaction is then from these authorities, I think it is very important. And the agenda that has grown is very big. I think it is also necessary to look at this with the fact that, for example, requests from the European Commission to continue the intelligent specialisation strategy until verticalisation, to continue to individual regions, that this is an agenda that one person really cannot handle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u112	Mr. Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u113	Thank you for the floor. For the last time, really. I don't think I'm at odds here. The agenda has really grown in 15 years to the point that one person can't handle it. The question is whether the Czech Republic and Czech science really need it. The agenda is growing so that a reporter who wants to be head of the department invents an extension of an agenda that one person can't handle, it has to be four, and one person is the manager. Then one department manager wants to be head of the department, so the agenda needs to be extended three more times, and for that I need three departments with three heads of department and one department director. [[15.30 hours]] Indeed, the agenda that these people invent for themselves is growing amazingly, but that is the money that we here approve for Czech science, but it is consumed by an inefficient administration. And all of this is blessed by Vice-President Bělobrádek. Try telling him, as sovereigns, as Chamber of Deputies, that he can handle it in three people. He can handle it, because that science can handle it, it really just needs money and creative freedom. And instead, he has 80 inefficient officials, each of whom wants to be head of the department and head of the department. Well, then the money's missing in the science when the officials take it. And this is the fact that you here approve of the budget of the chapter of the Office of the Government. Try to recover, colleagues!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u114	Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u115	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. By your means, Mr President, I reject what President Kalousek says here that these people are inefficient, that they are essentially useless. It really isn't. They didn't make up the agenda. You really need to ask about the work they've done. The fact that we are the first government that has introduced that we are talking at one table with people from science, research, education, discussing their priorities, what they want in the future, what the needs of individual sectors are, and then we adapt to each challenge, and what the money is for, is a system thing that makes spending money more effective. And only to pour money, and to deal with it, I strongly disagree. The rules need to be set, the system needs to be set, the priorities to be identified, the priorities to be agreed on with the public administration, the private sector, the scientific institutions, the schools and, on the basis of this social agreement across these individual segments, only the funds to be spent and spent effectively. As for the officials, I'll repeat. We run an information system at 50 percent of the costs before. If you call it useless and inefficient, I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u116	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u117	I can't help it, but I really can only serve the experience of a memorialist, not an expert. I'm emphasizing the memorial. In the beginnings of those times when we tried to create transparent funding for science and research, I had the honour and exceptional opportunity to discuss it with the greats named Otto Wichterle, Rudolf Zahradník, Professor Hejdánek. And all of them, when we were forming these structures, they said something that could be generalized into a sigh when Rudolf the zahradník said. I know all the decisive men in Max-Planck-Gesellschaft - an institution that advises the German government where and how to put money. I know all the men in the Royal Society - an institution that advises the British government where to put the money. And interestingly, I don't know anyone from the Council of the Government for Science and Research who advises the Czech Government. That's the problem. We're making up an agenda here. Czech science is bound by administrative notice, which in other administrative notions will invent the award. And that's just what Vice-President Bělobrádek is in charge of. The money doesn't go to Czech science. The money goes to a good living of influence groups. And that's what competitiveness looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, you who are involved in this House, try to put the money really into Czech science. You will see that it will do something about Czech competitiveness. Now it's really just official sightings by Vice-President Bělobrádek. I'm begging you, there's enough intellectual potential with scientific capacity to think about this and just stop it from being funded by average and average administrative appreciation. Try to allocate the money to excellence. And try to give more than that to Agrofert. And it will show up in ten years to the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u118	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u119	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Just one last time, through you. I'm very sorry about this. I think that science and research is what basically shouldn't be the subject of politics. What President Kalousek said here is offensive to the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation, where there are great scientific capacities from the Academy of Sciences, universities, there are people from industry, from small and medium-sized enterprises, and I think what he has shown here is a real shame. I hate to say it, because I appreciate Miroslav Kalousek in other things, but I find this unfair and offensive to a large number of people who have actually done a great deal of work. It is evident that it is unoriented in what we are preparing at all, including a new evaluation of Czech science, where the emphasis is on excellence, a strong emphasis on the evaluation of the cooperation of the commercial sector with research institutions, on the real promotion of excellence, and the emphasis on competitiveness. I consider another such debate irrelevant, I apologize, and I'm going to use the time differently, because I think we can either keep it until the third reading. And otherwise, I challenge all those who are interested in it, we'll make round tables, so come along, I'll try to explain it to you. Because what you've been saying hasn't been true for a long time, and the money that's increasing isn't really just for Bělobrádkův officials, that's what I fundamentally reject. It is a significant strengthening of applied research, a significant strengthening and basic research, an institutional increase that prepares us for the next time. And I think it's very responsible, and I'm sorry that this kind of agenda, which should essentially be ideologically completely inert, is becoming the subject of a political struggle, and I am very sorry because I would understand it with social security or health care, here it seems somewhat counterproductive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u120	Mr Gabal's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have so much in common with science anymore, but I feel that this is the staffing of institutions and institutions that were established in the time of Topolánkův's cabinet and extended in the time of Nečasův' cabinet. Then I only have one comment. It was not so long ago that we had to deal with in the Defence Committee that the army could not get back to one military airport, which is rented into private hands by a one- or two-page contract signed by one of the Members of this House. And then the DOD didn't really spend money on lawyers, but now we're gonna have to spend a lot of money to get back to that airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-30-ps2013-053-02-002-002.u122	I don't have any more applications. In that case, I am ending the debate and I am also ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Before we go any further, I'm sorry if I read any apology twice, but just in case, I'm gonna read everything in front of me right now. Minister Hermann apologizes from 14.45 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Putnová between 16.00 and 19.00 for reasons of work, Mr Kořenek from 14.45 to 16.15 hours for reasons of non-employment, Mr Kudela from 15.45 to 17.00 due to meetings at the MIT, Mr Heger between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of employment and Minister Jurečka 14.30 until the end of the working day for reasons of employment. So many apologies. [[15.40 hours]] Let's continue with point number
