ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u1	171. Government bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended /German press 510/ - third reading The Minister of the Interior remains and please the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Constitutional Committee, Mr Vozka, to join him. The amendments are in the press 510/3, which was delivered on 13 April this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 510/4. The Minister does not wish to speak before the debate is opened. In that case, I am opening the debate. I have two applications, Mr Martin Plíšek will be the first to speak. Mr. Tejc will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u2	Mr President, my dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would briefly interpret the position of the TOP 09 and the starosta before the final vote. He talked about it a while ago. Unfortunately, this creepy restriction of freedom is also in the proposal for a law of assembly, virtually. amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee. These amendments, some of them, strengthen the role and competence of officials, the authorities that allow the assembly, at the expense of the constitutionally guaranteed right of assembly. I am referring to a very specific proposal which unfortunately passed on the constitutional committee and which allows the official to decide that, in some situation, he may decide to change the venue of the meeting and to transfer the meeting or move the meeting to another place. This, of course, can be abused very often in political combat, because the political superior of the official will find that his political competition is holding a meeting and a meeting, and he will send him to his place and simply instruct him to transfer the meeting somewhere else, to a completely inadequate place. Where there is no need for the frequency of citizens and where it would be very problematic. So we have a law on gathering here in the early '90s. His author was the first Minister of Justice, Dr. Burešová. At that time it was known exactly why the law was formulated in such a very general sense that the right of assembly is constitutionally guaranteed. And now there are proposals that have the right to restrict it in some respects. As I mentioned, strengthen the role of officials or the Police of the Czech Republic and actually interfere with the free exercise of the rights of assembly. So that is why we cannot support this proposal in the final vote if this amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee is adopted. I would also ask you to support my amendment under letter C, according to which meetings can only be held on reserved places and on reserved days for listed public holidays in order to commemorate these public holidays. The proposal responds to a specific situation, for example from 17 November last year at Albertov, where the celebration of 17 November was unfortunately abused for completely different purposes, where the university students were not admitted together with the Rector of Charles University to lay flowers. And I also find it unacceptable in other places, such as Stará Boleslav, Velehrad, Husinec, that, for example, ultra-right different movements or nationalist movements should call for meetings for a completely different comment at the expense of churches or universities and universities. So, in conclusion, I would like to ask you to support the amendment under letter C. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and the next envoy is Mr. Jeroným Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Mr Plíšek, who is my colleague on the constitutional committee. He said here that we might want to restrict the right to gather. I think the only proposal that really points to this is the TOP 09 proposal so that in some places only certain speeches can be made on certain days and someone has been designated, probably some official, to listen to what is happening at that time. If he thought that the speech had deviated from the public holiday, he would have intervened and dissolved the meeting. I think that would have been the return before 1990 when the law on assembly was passed, and it would have been the wrong way. We have adopted several amendments on the constitutional committee. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vozka, who has been very thorough in the debate, and I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior who have responded to the debate and have tried to adapt the proposal so as to make sense and, above all, to allow meetings to continue to be held to the maximum extent, because that is the guaranteed right given by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The law itself is not revolutionary. He responds to the case law of the court, he responds to practice. Maybe we can get to that in the debate. [[11.30 hours]] However, on specific amendments. We welcome the extension in the government proposal of the possibility of holding meetings where they could not be held today, which means that, for example, two or three entities will request to hold meetings on the same day. However, today, the first person to come first always comes first. It is now possible for the Authority to decide, if possible in terms of security and, in particular, capacity, for example, that two demonstrations of 50 people on Wenceslas Square or another huge square could take place each on another side and did not block the other because someone blocked the first part, if possible. If this is not possible for security reasons or other reasons, the first applicant shall take precedence as it has been so far. The second thing we didn't agree with was a proposal by the Ministry of the Interior so that under certain circumstances the participants in the demonstration could decloak - sorry, disguise themselves. We think that the participants in the demonstration should be decloaked, simply because, and we have had that experience recently, that the police cannot identify those who are masked, and, for example, if they violate the law, if they threaten the lives, health or destroy the property of third parties, then, of course, it leads to the police being unable to punish them. And we think it's wrong. This means that if an amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee is adopted, then no one is to be covered up at the demonstration. It does not, of course, fall on actions such as folk festivities, masquerading, it is a matter which is not subject to the law of assembly and is, of course, possible. It was also in the proposal that everyone should have the right to gather. It's basically a harmless sentence that we would all agree with. But it would have a serious impact. Demonstrations could also be convened by citizens of other states, not even European Union states. Here we have taken the liberty of proposing a change which says that only citizens or legal entities based in the territory of the Czech Republic will be able to organise such a demonstration, given the responsibility of the callers for the event at that time. The Constitutional Committee introduces its proposal as well as the obligation of written consent to carry out the demonstration at a specific place, i.e. the consent of the owner of the place, so that it does not occur that the consent is not given and the land owner finds that on his land, on his land, on his land, people gather with reference to the fact that he has once expressed his consent, and situations arise that must be addressed by the police or authorities. So a new obligation is introduced to demonstrate written consent before this demonstration takes place. If there was a debate about when the police or the assembly office could move to another place, it's definitely a matter that might be controversial. I can't argue with that. However, it should be recalled that this can only be done when, for example, there is a threat to the safety and health of the people involved in the demonstration. Not by any means. I think that the law clearly states in this provision that what is to be investigated above all is the right of assembly. So I wouldn't see the problem with the text. And the courts will certainly protect everyone who wants to gather. So much for what the Constitutional Committee has adopted. I think what is true is that there is an extension of the possibility of gathering, not the other way around. The reason for this claim is, for example, that it narrows down a circle of places where demonstrations cannot be held, for example in Malostranské náměstí, which is adjacent to Parliament, where today a meeting cannot be held 100 metres from the House of Deputies building and this will be possible again. And I think that's a step in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with a proper application, Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It shall be prohibited to carry out demonstrations which are not convened for the purpose of commenting on the holiday in question on a specific site. In other words, you either have to cheer or you have bad luck these days. There's always talk of freedom. In the last debate, the word was here several times. But if this amendment is adopted, freedom will be defended, regardless of whether one or the other agrees with the opinion of the people who want to express their opinion on this particular place on the above holidays. I would also like to remind you what we have proposed in this law for two amendments. One of them is that media editors and reporters are required to accredit themselves at mass events, because there is no reason to choose who does and who does not, which journalist does and which journalist does not, but the reason is to protect the editor so that his technique is protected, so that situations don't happen where the organizer doesn't really have the opportunity to protect such an editor in any way. Unfortunately, it happened to us in Hradčany Square and at that moment it is not possible to protect such a person in 15,000 crowds. Although it didn't happen in the finals. But if he did, he's not in the power of the organizers to protect such a person unless he's accredited. We were organized there. If he's accredited, of course we're responsible for protecting him. But if he comes in as an editor, he'll stand in the middle, then it's very hard for the organizer to protect such a person in any way. It's the same as when Baník Ostrava goes to the game, he stands in the boiler and then wonders and demands damages from the organizer for the broken camera or for someone to pour beer on him. Our second proposal is the police's duty to write a report on the demonstration. The reason is also simple. We will then avoid speculation about what was happening at the demonstration or not. We consider this to be two of our sensible proposals. I would therefore very much like to ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment here on the amendment by Mr Plíšek. I respect him very much, but I will not support this amendment and recommend to our entire club not to support this amendment. There's been a talk about freedom, I don't want to stress it. I think we're clear on that. And as for the complexity of the actual realization, when there are often not just two camps facing each other, there are also sometimes observers watching from afar. How would we deal with you? Like, are they celebrating, or are they opposed, or what if they don't have an opinion and really just observe? I will, of course, be happy to celebrate the holidays on a festive day, and I have stressed that here with other proposals, and if we know why we apply to them and why we stress them and why it takes a day of working peace, but here's an organization to allow only those who are celebrating there, then I refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u9	Thank you, too. I'm asking who's next for the debate. If no one else... Mr. Lank has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u10	Thank you for the floor. I will just briefly respond to the defence of our amendments, because I have come across the fact that someone obviously has not fully understood what these amendments are meant to serve to do, and it is presented at times in such a way that we may want to choose which journalists we want at the demonstration and to which we will grant accreditation and which we will not. It's just not like that. We just refuse to guarantee what happens at the demonstration to an editor present, who we just don't know about. In this context, I would briefly quote a few sentences from the report from the General Inspection of Security Corps, which is currently responding to the initiatives that took place at our demonstration on Hradčany Square, when allegedly a member of the Police of the Czech Republic should have refused to assist the editor of the Czech Radio in attacking the transmission vehicle and thereby disrupting the live broadcast. From the investigation report I quote: "By evaluating the file material, it was found that during the demonstration there was only word contact of an unknown man with workers of the Czech Radio transmission vehicle, there was no physical assault between the persons involved. Although the main switch of the electric central, which was located outside the vehicle, was switched off by an unknown person, this act was not disrupted or threatened by the live broadcast of the editor of the Czech Radio. He subsequently requested assistance from the Police of the Czech Republic, but only in connection with the guarding and possible attack of their transmission vehicle." [[11.40 hours]] I further quote: "There was a peaceful demonstration in the locality in the number of approximately 10,000 people. The main task of patrols deployed by the Police of the Czech Republic was to oversee the observance of public order throughout the pet area and prevent material damage and injury of persons. In this case, the Police of the Czech Republic could not accept the request of the editor of the Czech Radio to guard the transmission vehicle. Police of the Czech Republic would be forced to intervene in direct threats to health, property or public order. However, in the case where a transmission car is located, including technology located outside this vehicle, in an area where the movement of persons can be expected to be increased, it is appropriate to ensure that the security of the Czech Radio is secured by its own forces. Since no harm has been done to the health, property or public order, the behaviour of an unknown man cannot be regarded as unlawful or requiring action by the Police of the Czech Republic." And that's exactly what we want to prevent by putting forward our amendments, which, on the one hand, are supposed to give them the opportunity to accredit themselves or, on the other hand, the obligation to accredit themselves with the fact that, of course, the editor can come anywhere, only then the organizer can't guarantee what happens there if he doesn't even know about it. We had a dedicated space at the demonstration that was guarded, and if the transmission car were placed in it, no one would get hurt. And the second thing that responds to this, to the events that have been happening, and especially to their subsequent mediation, is our second amendment to have the police issue an official report, where it will be clearly given, and it will have all the media available, how many people were there, what happened and what did not happen there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u11	Into the debate? If no one else is reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate. I'll ask the Minister if he wants the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur does not want the final word either. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. Now I ask the rapporteur to propose a procedure for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my fellow Members, the Constitutional Committee has dealt with the sum of the amendments that you have in the House of Press 510/3, which therefore adopted Resolution No. 213 and recommended the House's voting procedure, which is as follows. Since no proposals for technical adjustments have been read, there is no need to vote on them, as well as rejecting the law. The first vote is proposed by the Constitutional Committee to vote on proposals A, which means proposals from the Constitutional Committee A1 to A13, by the second vote of proposals B, i.e. proposals from B1 and B2, as the previous speakers have already reported to them, that is, by Mr Martin Lank's proposals, and by the third vote from Mr Martin Plíšek's third proposal C, proposals from C1 to C5. And then the bill as a whole. So much for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u13	I'll ask if anyone else has a proposal or wishes for a different procedure. It's not like that. Well, in that case, I'll check you out first, because there's a check-out request. A new registration, please. We will vote on the procedure first. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the proposal for a procedure, as presented by the rapporteur. Who's against it? It's order number 472, registered 149, for 149, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote on individual amendments. Please, rapporteur, first proposal and opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u14	Thank you. So it's a suggestion. And the first vote is on the resolution of the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee, where there are 13 proposals, which I commented in detail in the second reading and was addressed in my speech by colleague Tejc. The proposal of the Constitutional Committee is proposal A. I recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u15	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's order number 473, registered 149, for 133, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u16	Thank you. So we can now proceed to the second vote, which will be the vote on Mr Martin Lank's amendments, which he has also presented here, is an accreditation of the media and a report on the assembly. The Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u17	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The vote has order number 474. Signed in 150, for 7, versus 101. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u18	Thank you. In the third vote, we will decide on Mr Martin Plíšek's amendments, which he also spoke of. The Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u19	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 475 serial vote, it's 151, for 16, against 124. This proposal has not been adopted. I believe we voted on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u20	Yes, we voted on all the amendments and the vote on the law as a whole remains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-006-171.u21	In that case, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended, pursuant to the House's Press 510, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Just a few more opinions, please. [[Rapporteur: The Constitutional Committee agrees. - Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 476 serial vote. It's logged in 154, for 114, against 17. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. I'm done with point 171. Opening point
