ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u1	175. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, and other related laws /house print 642/ - third reading I will ask the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee of the Constitutional Law Radek Vondráček to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I note that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 642/5, which was delivered on 22 September 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 642/6. I ask the appellant, Minister Pelikán, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening the debate and Mrs Nina Nováková is the first to sign up. Madame, you are signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, this bill does not have as many amendments as it did before. If you look there, there are about 12 amendments. And if we subtract that some Members may have been alienating their amendment, so they put it there twice in different forms, there may be ten of these proposals. Four of which deal with the fate of children after their parents' breakup. Those three are there, without wanting to promote the amendments of a colleague, so, for example, a mandatory person who is in default of payment of maintenance, the person entitled to claim payment of interest on late payment. Or the court's decision to order constitutional education will indicate the device where the child is to be placed. Or if constitutional education is to be carried out in a medical facility, a court in a decision that he commands... and so on. It's all about the tragic fates of children. Few children get into institutional education because they need a complete orphan and really have no one to take care of them, so constitutional education is better for them. I took the liberty, and I explained it at second reading, to draw attention to the possibility of preferring when a parent couple breaks up, to prefer that from the moment the couple breaks up, he is somehow being worked with in such a positive way that those who originally liked each other suddenly hate each other, do not treat each other as opposing parties in any court. In fact, so that these people, by hating themselves and attacking each other, don't pass it on to a child who likes both parents the same way. That kid never wants to judge between whether Daddy's awful or Mommy's awful. The child will never be seen in the one who does not pay sustenance on time, any reprehensible person who is to pay his mother or the other person interest. I would like to ask you for long - suffering or favour in favour of my amendment, which is referred to in letter B, and concerns the fact that in our Civil Code it is said that, above all, there will be an effort to continue to care for children together after parents break up. And the regime, whether they're gonna take turns in a week or whatever it takes to be on those parents. It is important to encourage parents to communicate with each other. The amendment therefore knows that the court cannot save everything, but expects that there will be a more comprehensive divorce service for a couple to break up. Because the more antagonizing a couple is somehow alienated, the worse the impact it has on a child. So if we want to talk about acting in the interests of the child, we also need to work with people. And there we are, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately it hasn't caught me yet, there are so many of us. And we should not allow people who were together to have a child together to suddenly hate each other and actually drag each other around in court. Therefore, I ask for long - suffering or favor with my amendment, which is referred to in B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u3	Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková. Now, Mrs Marta Semelová. Ms. Jana Hnyková will be ready. And I ask the House for peace. Any discussions in the lobby, ladies and gentlemen, so that Mrs Semelová can speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on Mrs Válková's amendment, which is contained in the resolution of the Constitutional Committee, which regulates the decision on the placement and transfer of children to individual establishments - children's homes, children's homes with school or educational institutions. Before the new Civil Code, before its adoption, they decided on the placement of a child with an ordered constitutional diagnostic constitution, and there was no problem with that. They have always decided in administrative proceedings on the basis of complex diagnostics carried out, always in cooperation with the institutions of social law protection of children, with legal representatives and the child himself, in his interest. Where necessary, they also decided to transfer the child to another establishment in administrative proceedings. The system worked and provided early and professional assistance to children who needed it. The amendment to the Civil Code, which removed this competence from the diagnostic institutes and handed it over to the courts, complicated the situation in many ways and paid the children. Their placement into institutional education without this comprehensive examination raises a number of problems. Expertly performed diagnostics at the diagnostic institute is a prerequisite for properly set up work in a children's home, a children's home with a school or a educational institution. I do not question the efforts, work and expertise of social workers of institutions for social-law protection of children, but OSPOD works with the family, with the child from a social point of view. They're not encyclopedias, psychologists, or psychiatrists. True, there are cases where a court decides to place a child in a diagnostic institute. Such a procedure is correct and responsible, of course, if the courts subsequently accept the proposals and recommendations of diagnostic institutes. But there are problems here too. The subsequent decision of the courts is very lengthy. In most cases, the period of stay of a child in a diagnostic institute, which is laid down by law for a period not exceeding eight weeks, is much longer. According to the 2015 investigation, the shortest average time was 12,9 weeks, the longest 28,3 weeks from 12 diagnostic institutes. If the intervention of working with the child is to be effective, it must be timely. Furthermore, there are situations where a child needs to be transferred within a network of establishments for the exercise of institutional education to another, more appropriate and more necessary facility. The reason may be significant changes in the behaviour of the child, serious behavioural disturbances, or psychiatric indications where it is difficult to maintain the safety of both other children and personnel. Study is another reason. The child is to enter a different place in high school and is not allowed to enter due to a lengthy trial. There's a known case where the kid lost a whole year because of it. Serious misconduct may occur if the court decides directly, without placing in a diagnostic institute, and thus without finding a diagnosis. Incorrect placement of a child directly into an institution without prior residence in a diagnostic institute may result in major problems for the child itself, for the children of others and also for the workers of the facility. OSPOD workers are objectively unable to design specific facilities to the courts. They lack a comprehensive examination of the child - psychological, specially pedagogical, psychiatric and so on, respectively. his diagnostics. In addition, diagnostic institutes have very well-mapped terrain, have an overview of individual facilities, know which of them corresponds with their conditions to the needs of the child in order to obtain a stable environment and do not need to be moved from one device to another. [[13.10 hours]] If I were to sum up, the amendment to the Civil Code of Expectations did not comply. It has introduced a system that is not optimal for the benefit of the child, and it needs to be responded to. I therefore welcome the amendment of Mrs Válková, which is contained in the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Not only does it return the power of placing and transferring children on the basis of a comprehensive examination, health status and free capacity of individual establishments, taking into account the interests of the child, to express the OSPOD and to the shortest possible distance from the residence of parents or other loved ones, to children's homes, children's homes with schools or educational institutes, but it also places them in certain specifically listed cases directly without prior residence in a diagnostic institute. In particular, children under six years of age, children who were in a children's home for children under three years of age or a child's facility requiring immediate assistance, and finally children who do not have behavioral disorders, have completed diagnostics or other justified cases. There is also a situation where it turns out that a comprehensive examination is needed. Then this examination will be carried out by the diagnostic institute directly at the facility where the child was placed. The proposal thus reflects what is called for by field experts and workers who move on this issue daily. Therefore, this amendment is supported by the KSČM club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u5	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Now, Mrs Jana Hnyková, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So have a nice afternoon, everybody. Let me also briefly comment on House press 642, the amendment to the Civil Code, and in particular on paragraph 1. 4 § 971. In January 2014, when there was a significant reduction in the functionality of the network of educational establishments for the exercise of constitutional and protective education, resulting mainly from the loss of placement and coordination competences of diagnostic institutes. The amending proposal states that only the court always decides to remove the child from the family and the regulations of constitutional education. The court also decides to terminate institutional care. The Diagnostic Institute has decided in the past and, according to this proposal, it would again decide in administrative proceedings with the possibility of appeals for legal representatives to place the child in a specific facility or to transfer the child further within the network of the Constitutional Facility. I would like to point out that, in this fact, I see from the courts the seriousness that the act of removing children from the family deserves, and it is indisputably solely for the courts. On the part of diagnostic institutes, I see the expertise that diagnostic institutes have with their experts so that they can clearly and responsibly decide on a specific device most suitable for a particular child with regard to his personality, which is often characterised by diagnoses such as. Disharmonic personality development, Aspergerův syndrome, hyperkinetic behavioral disorder, family-related behavioral disorder, and I could name many more of these diagnoses. The cautious judges support the amendment, and the amendment also has support for the staff of alternative education facilities as well as the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Finally, I would like to say that in every diagnostic institute, there are single-disciplinary psychologists who are able to produce a report on the child in view of his difficulties as responsible as the psychologists in the health care workplace. The diagnostic institute is a diagnostic and therapeutic process, not a one-time act. Their expertise in single-disciplinary psychologists is witnessed by the fact that in a number of forensic experts they are one-disciplinary psychologists, as well as special educators who are approached by judges for expert assessment of a child story. I would like to declare here as the Dawn - National Coalition MEP that we will support the amendment of Mrs Válková and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, my colleague Martin Plíšek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u8	Thank you. I am quite sorry that there is no more of these Members here, because I think that this is a very important subject and that it should be heard by more legislators. So I will also follow up on my colleague Hnyková and I will comment on my colleague Válková's amendment. As Mrs Hnyková said, after 1 January 2014, the network of educational establishments for the exercise of constitutional and protective education resulting mainly from the loss of placement and coordination competences of diagnostic institutes has been significantly reduced in practice. I'll choose four areas from the drawbacks. The first area concerns children with problems in behavior placed directly into a non-diagnostic facility. If the child is placed in a less suitable device, its adaptation with force tension is managed, but from the beginning it is clear that in another device, albeit of the same type, it would be easier. If the child is assigned inappropriately, e.g. the place in the children's home with the school is placed in a children's home, then it must mostly be difficult to move. The second area is the very lengthy relocation of children from diagnostic institutes, where the OSPODs and courts are properly assigned children. The actual period from the recommended eight weeks extended to an average of 20 weeks, but some children remain 50 weeks. Every year, some children cannot be educated in secondary education in time. In 2014, there were 67. For others, specialized therapeutic care in subsequent facilities is delayed for a number of weeks. The third area is the overcrowding of diagnostic institutes, and the smaller number of prodiagnosed children for the long-term stay of children in these facilities. Diagnostic institutions have a limited ability to provide care to other needy children. The fourth, last area I want to mention is the many-month reservation of free capacity in children's facilities for prospective incoming children reported in children's homes, where final judicial decisions are again awaited. Without these deadlines, it has sometimes happened that the facility will overcharge the existing capacity if children from several district courts are heading there independently of each other with different placement periods. This fact also devalues the Ministry of Education portal, i.e. the actuality of data does not correspond exactly to the current reality of vacancies in a particular facility. Mrs Válková's amendment states that only the court always decides to remove the child from the family and the constitutional education regulation, and so does the court. The Diagnostic Institute would again decide in administrative proceedings with the possibility of appeals for legal representatives on the assignment of the child to a specific facility or on the further transfer of the child within the network of the Constitutional Facility. Advantages of this solution: For a child in a diagnostic institute it is far from just a diagnosis, but with it there is also intensive therapy and intensive work with the family. Some of the kids are coming home from the diagnostics center. It's about 10 to 30 percent. The others receive expert advice on the most beneficial educational practices in subsequent facilities. Therefore, the directors of all school establishments also request diagnostics and therapeutic intervention of the diagnostic institute in case of demanding children's stories. [[13.20 hours]] Another advantage is that not all children must enter the institutional facilities by staying in a diagnostic institute. They may, on the basis of an expert assessment of the diagnostic institute, be directly assigned to an appropriate facility, so-called administratively, unless there is a risk of significant doubts as to the likely failure of the child in a particular facility without diagnosis. The condition is to refer to a children's story with a thorough knowledge of the network of devices, which the diagnostic institute has an overview of. Parents are important partners for the workers of diagnostic institutions and are an integral part of the work with the child and are therefore informed of the follow-up steps as well as the OSPOD. Workers in alternative education establishments say that their children's parents dare to express more reservations about their opposition to the school facilities than to the court, which is of positive importance for both existing and follow-up care, when doubts about the apparent benefits of layman's solution are dissolved. In addition, the subsequent inspection of the children placed was, is and remains regulated in the provisions of Section 973 of the Civil Code, which provides that the court is obliged to examine once every six months whether the reasons for the constitutional education regulation remain. As of 1 February 2016, the procedure for diagnostic institutes is regulated by the Decree of the Minister No. 5/2016 on standards of care for placement and transfer of children. The implementation of standards is already subject to checks, but it can also be interested in fulfilling the standard, for example, in regular visits to children. Finally, I would like to point out that the diagnostic institute is now deciding in administrative proceedings on the assignment or relocation of children with established protection, and in this respect, no one is questioning or questioning the decision-making of the diagnostic institutes, so the decision-making of the same in constitutional education would only unite the practice of diagnostic institutes. The amendment is not an act of disrespect for judges. On the contrary, cautious judges support this proposal, and the Ministry of Justice supports it, which respects the child's constitutional right. It is also supported by a large number of OSPOD workers and especially by staff of school institutions. This was about the amendment by Mrs Válková. Now, I would briefly mention my amendment, which concerns the relationship between the housing community in housing houses and homeowners who do not pay mandatory fees. Many of you have seen this situation before. The debt generated by the defaulters is growing, and the necessary expenditure on the management of the residential house is divided between the owners of the apartments who pay and whose housing costs are rising due to debtors, which I consider extremely unfair. Moreover, the community of owners in the legal system is in a somewhat unequal position. The number of debtors in housing houses is growing, but the receivables of housing corporations are almost unenforceable. In both insolvency and execution proceedings, creditors have priority over the full satisfaction of collateral claims, such as banks. The Communities are defenceless against defaulters and hundreds of thousands of debts must be paid by other members. They have no way of influencing who will become their neighbor. Banks have this in part because they provide a mortgage or loan only after certain conditions have been met. I believe that we all agree that there is finally something to be done about this problem and that is why I tabled this amendment. I propose that, in the Civil Code, following the model of Germany and Austria, the right of the community of owners to give priority to the claims incurred by them in fulfilling the debt relating to the administration of the house and the land for a member of the community of owners should be regulated. In the future, the Community of Owners would at least partially satisfy its claims on the sale of the unit. The rights of the community of owners would then be constituted by law at the date of the establishment of the community of owners, i.e. on the date of its registration in the public register. It will be entirely up to the community whether it will or will not enforce its claims. In order to avoid damage to mortgage creditors, the owners' association could exercise its liens only for a maximum of one quarter of the proceeds of the cash-flow. In other words, if housing units are not to be excluded from the mortgage bond market, the right to preferential satisfaction of the community may not exceed 29 per cent of the value of the unit. The preferential satisfaction would only apply to debts that have become due in the last six months before the sale of the unit. Thus, the community of owners must be active and recover its claim from the debtor. As in the Austrian legal order, the proposal sets the upper limit for claims intended for priority satisfaction at five years after their creation. The purpose of the upper limit of five years is to motivate the community of owners to achieve the enforceable title and monetization of the unit as quickly as possible. Its absence could lead to the absence of the Community's access to proceedings with sufficient care or even deliberately prolonging the process. A similar right to preferential satisfaction would also apply to units in houses, where the existence of a community of owners has not yet been legally established. I believe that the proposal is an acceptable compromise for all. And what's important is that people who do their duty stop paying off those who don't do it for a reason. And the principle of subsidiarity does not really belong here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u9	I thank Mrs Jana Pastuchová for her speech in the third reading. We will continue with Mr Martin Plíšek's speech, Mr Lukáš Pleticha will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, I wish you a nice Friday afternoon. I would like, on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP, to comment on this amendment to the Civil Code. I would like to begin by saying that we fundamentally disagree with the very concept with which this amendment was being prepared. When he joined the Ministry of Justice as Deputy Minister, the Minister began to prepare a major amendment to the Civil Code shortly after the Civil Code began to apply because he did not ideally agree with the authors of the original code approved by the new Civil Code. He came up with a method of fundamental recodification of the new codification. He came across this, of course, both in the professional public and then on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and prepared a so-called technical amendment to some roughly twelve changes, but without any RIA, any impact of regulation, without explaining why these twelve changes, and not others. It is indeed a set of random unrelated things that have been proposed to regulate quite shortly after the new Civil Code began to apply, at a time when the user's practice could not be established, application, when, of course, there has not yet been a caselaw, or, on the contrary, there has already been a caselaw in some respects, and some things have been dealt with, and we do not need to intervene as legislators immediately in everything by amending the law, so that we may even compromise the user's or professional public. For example, in the 12 changes, for some mysterious reasons, the system of employing minors under the age of 16 is to change, only because it was said in tripartite that employers wanted it. So if laws are formed by tripartite and individual social partners say something, and then they are proposed to amend the Civil Code, then there are no fundamental reasons for the Civil Code to change. [[13.30 hours]] And that's not all. Of course, the original government proposal, as I mentioned, contained about 12 rather technical changes, the question is, how important, from my point of view, most of it was useless and practice, application, could have managed without these changes. However, I pointed it out at first reading, even some of my colleagues, of course Pandořin's box opened for a number of parliamentary proposals. So apart from the 12 changes to the government proposal, the Members themselves have tabled 27 amendments and amendments, or amendments, to be exact, to this Civil Code. Of course, also, logically, because it is a fundamental code of private law, so these 27 changes are again random, unrelated in a number of cases, and even very wrong in some respects. One of these changes is quite fundamental and conceptual, and in my opinion, it interferes with the fact that we are talking about a technical amendment, and that is the re-establishing of pre-emptive rights in real estate. I'm gonna stop by here a little bit, because in recent years, this topic has been discussed. I remind you that it was already the government of Miloš Zeman, in which the current President of the Constitutional Court was then, who decided in the material intention that the pre-emptive law of real estate would be abolished. After that, social democracy seems to have re-evaluated the position over time, it was overruled in the adoption of the new Civil Code, and now that the conditions in the Chamber of Deputies have changed, its Member has come after a two-year adjustment with a proposal to re-establish the pre-emption law after it has been abolished, because most of it is different here. Here I will just add that the members of the ANO movement helped, although the relevant minister gave a negative opinion on this, as he pointed out the legal problems that the re-establishing of the pre-emptive right could have because they will be introduced here, or two principles will apply here, respectively. two legal regimes. Of course, the re-establishing of the pre-emptive right also brings with it a number of problems in dealing with ownership shares with unattainable owners who are staying around the world, so it will make life more difficult for the co-owners. But there's a majority here, so we're just gonna reinstate the preemptive law. I would also like to point out that the colleague who proposed this did not even suggest this with any delay, so it should have been effective immediately with the effect of the Civil Code, which did not happen even in the case of the amendment to the Civil Code, when the annulment had some delay. So, fortunately, the constitutional committee is proposing, and I beg you in this case, if there is a real political will here, the pre-emptive right to reinstate it so as to approve the deferred effectiveness on 1 January 2018, because it would be even more confusing than it will be. Perhaps in the next Chamber of Deputies, if there is another majority, we will see that the pre-emptive right will be abolished again. This is how we approach the amendments to the fundamental code of private law, when we put in the technical amendment conceptual proposals that undermine logic and, in this case, the contractual freedom of the parties on which the new Civil Code is based. So here I would like to appeal to the fact that I know that the majority here is clear that the members of the ANO movement did not respect their minister and his warning statements in this regard, so that this proposal is not approved. As I have already mentioned, Members propose a number of things in terms of maintenance, placing children in diagnostic institutes, etc. It is a great pity that the relevant ministers involved in this matter, i.e. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister of Education are not here today, so we really cannot have a responsible debate on such fundamental issues. I would like to warn a little bit here about the hasty approval of certain adjustments without having a debate and that the positions of the relevant ministers will be heard here at all, because it is really essential, that is not a technical, parametric change. I would like to appeal to us to stick together, or to hold on to what the amendment has to be with, since it has to be, it has been proposed here, because then it really becomes a pel-mele of completely contradictory proposals, which are not properly discussed. I could, of course, mention individual amendments that are in different forms of importance, but precisely for what I said here, that this is not how we should treat the basic code of private law, that is not the time for settling caselaw and application, so we cannot support this amendment in the final vote, and, moreover, with the amendments that I was talking about earlier, because it could bring more damage and chaos to the user public, but also to the professional public than to the benefit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u11	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. Mr Lukáš Pleticha will now take the floor, Mrs Chalánková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I have to follow up on my previous speaker and draw attention here to a well-intentioned, but simply a bad amendment concerning the lien of the community of owners on some debts. And why I say to some debts. Because unfortunately, the petitioner did not notice that the contributions paid by the owners of the units have several regimes and are named differently. What is proposed concerns only the contribution to the administration of houses and real estate pursuant to § 1180 para. 1 of the new Civil Code, but also the owners of the units are obliged to make contributions for the remuneration of the persons who manage the house, members of their bodies, accounting and similar costs of their own administrative activities. And this, please, does not concern the amendment at all. It also does not apply to debts arising from the billing of services, which owners also have to pay, but which are actually due after the end of the accounting year and after it is within a specified period of three or four months, I do not know exactly now, actually the community is obliged to account for costs, typically it is water, sewerage, energy, common spaces, lift, heat. In fact, it is precisely the amendment that does not remember the debts arising from this title. On the other hand, in the part that concerns the change in the cadastral law, he is working there again with the person responsible for house and land management. So there are completely independent contributions, which have a link to the administration according to § 1180 para. 2. So unfortunately, this, even in this legal way, is simply not ripe. However, I must say that the current new Civil Code is not well done in this part. This whole area deserves to be redesigned for that very reason and for the problems I'm dealing with. tries to respond to this amendment as well. And then there is also a need to resolve certain liabilities that will then be incurred for the mortgage market and the obligations that people already have under contracts today if they have taken credit to buy the unit. Mostly in those loan agreements, they have a duty not to stop the unit by law in a more favourable order than their lending institution is. So I very much understand and commend the direction in which this proposal was directed, but this cannot be resolved and it will really require a more comprehensive modification of this entire property of the owners' community and actually co-ownership and ownership of the units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u13	I thank Mr Lukáš Pletich. Now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my support for Amendment No. 4769 Mrs Válková. Many previous speakers have already discussed this amendment in detail. I would also like to speak to him and add perhaps some other conventions to this. I am also sorry that neither the relevant Minister of Labour and Social Affairs nor the Minister of Education are really here. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has sent us a letter to this amendment to the Committee on Social Policy, which is relatively identical to some of the e-mails we receive as Members. They're from exactly the same pen, from Mr. Adam the Křístek's pen. As far as expertise is concerned, this letter is really very hard to discuss, because it is absolutely unprofessional. Now, on to this own amendment. The proposal seeks to return the powers of transfer of children, which the court - I stress - has placed in constitutional education, back into diagnostic institutes. They had this competence until the adoption of the new Civil Code. So it happened that, although the courts are still deciding on a regulation of constitutional education, which is, of course, a good thing, but it is no longer good that the only advisor is the institution of social-legal protection for children. He then proposes a target station without technical documentation, although the child did not pass psychological and special pedagogical diagnostics. It is only on the basis of diagnostics that further educational and educational activities can be determined responsibly. As a result of this supposedly humane approach, the target facility, which often does not even have a psychologist, is often clueless in its work in more complicated cases, because only some come to diagnostic institutions according to the consideration of the institutions of social-legal protection of children. Aggressive individuals thus successfully dismantle, until then, peacefully functioning children's homes and children, who only cause minimal educational problems, are in the attention of the tutors, because the center of their events is the aggressors occupying all their time. It should be noted that children's homes are not intended for socially dangerous individuals with a quite predictable criminal career, but for children who, even though they grow up after birth in faulty families, can largely be successfully integrated into ordinary society. The structure of educational facilities simply has a sequence according to the degree of disturbance and social hazard: a children's home, a children's home with a school, an educational institution and facilities for children with extreme behavioral disorders. This can only be ensured responsibly by a workplace that is professionally fully equipped. I would like to point out to my esteemed colleagues that the e-mails we received from various lobbyists have the same author, the same pen - Mr Adam Křístek, who works in organisations such as the Citizenship Council, the Civil and Human Rights Council, where he worked, are also different organisations, and at the same time he is also a worker of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. To sum it up. The custody of children by administrative authorities into pre-pupstonic and pre-adoptic care was perfectly fine. This, in turn, concerns the socio-legal protection of children. It is nonsense that this would be an intervention in the rights of parents, because only a legally free child, one whose parents have been deprived of parental responsibility or disinterested, or if parents have given their consent to adoption. The child could only be admitted to pre - Pedestrian care when a court had previously ordered institutional care. The decision of the administrative authority has always been preceded by an intervention of the court in the rights of parents. On the other hand, children are now placed in temporary foster care from court decisions, but on preliminary measures and often without any remediation of the biological family. As far as diagnostic institutes are concerned. Mrs Válková's proposal is intended to address the trivial situation of larger children with educational problems, when courts send children to facilities without prior diagnosis and depending on where there is currently a place. As a result, there are children in the institutions who are not supposed to be there, and without any criterion of suitability. I see the amendment as a response, for example. on Chrastav and also to promote foster care for a transitional period as a universal solution in the protection of children's rights. I would also like to point out that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, there is a working group for alternative family care across the political spectrum. I am saying this because such a proposal, which concerns the protection of children, should not be political. Indeed, it should be supported by a professional point of view. Here we are talking about a technical problem and it should never become a political problem. And it is really surprising for what particular ideal reason lobbyists degenerate this proposal. I would like to point out that it would be very unfortunate, and this is how we see it, that a system that has been functional is being dismantled and that which has failed to enforce in one law, it appears to us again, for example. when presenting another law, and what could happen in the collapse of this still functioning system. This is why the working group on alternative family care wanted to evaluate the impacts of the amendments, e.g. Amendments to the Act on Social-Legal Protection of Children, but also to the Civil Code and the Act on the Enforcement of Constitutional Education, evaluate these impacts so that they can be corrected. These are also outputs from this working group, which we are passing on to the members of the Social Policy Committee, which takes them into account and adopts the relevant resolutions. The danger that is at risk here, even though we are still speaking that the court is deciding, even now the court is deciding, is that even those who approve these laws, which are now valid and effective, are gradually getting children out of the state's control. Because the courts do not have sufficient capacity and will require only recommendations, or they have recommendations from the institutions of social law protection for children and other, even non-profit organisations. Why do I want to point that out? There is, of course, a judgment consecrated in Norway as well. However, the first documents are prepared by semi-private organizations, which, so-called - and now I quote from the really public sources available - buy expert documents, opinions, and even buy decisions. And those courts virtually de facto at 97 percent merely confirm these prepared, purchased - bought, this term is there in the Barneverne audit, which buy these decisions. That is why this system is coming to an end, and, unfortunately, Norway has also taken a look at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. Under this international pressure, Norwegian Secretary Solveig Horne has publicly declared that this system must be corrected, to remedy what does not work because it cannot rule out that there is indeed a violation of the rights of parents and children. Why am I talking about this? Indeed, this connection is not random, and it may be best to hunt in muddy waters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u15	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Now, Mrs Helena Válková in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u16	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, there are few of us here. And the most important of us for this issue, responsible for how it will be dealt with, except for the Minister of Justice, is missing. Moreover, my previous speakers, who have addressed this issue, have summed up the most important reasons for what I would say here a few words, or my amendment, which is only partially mine. He is basically all who work in the area of foster family care, is all those who currently take care of children who do not have a good family environment or exhibit various behavioral disorders, simply saying that they need special treatment in the respective constitutional facilities. [[13.50 hours]] It has been said by one of our colleagues that when the Civil Code is opened, we should reduce its changes to the necessary ones and to those put forward by the government. But when it opens, it's a unique opportunity to fix something that doesn't work in practice at all. And what doesn't work at all and where reason remains for me is that one of the resorts that should care most about it to make it work again, on the contrary, this effort boycotts, virtually. It's against her. This is precisely the classification of children that need to be placed, respectively. move them when they are already included into the most suitable possible facilities for the exercise of supplementary education when they can no longer be in the family or in the foster family. The same principle remains preserved, which was before the new Civil Code came into force, or until 31. 12. 2013. The court decides on such significant interference with a child's life. What we're trying to fix right now is that the person who decides what particular device the child is placed in is a specialised institute, a diagnostic institute that is equipped with a staffed, professionally long tradition. Of course, he can make a mistake. But it's definitely not going to happen what's happening now and what's far more systematic than I'm about to notify. Babysitting courts are overloaded. They themselves claim that they do not want this competence because they cannot fulfil it on time if they are to fulfil it in proper quality, and in most cases without the help of experts, respectively. The diagnostics department, so the whole process is just stretching. Overload, slow decision-making, lack of specialization, lack of respect for the capacity and fullness of the equipment are the most important defects that led me to the processing of the amendment, which is based on the accumulated experience and knowledge from practice. I will not delay you any further, but I will not resist a critical remark that I do not understand why e-mails are now being sent out to challenge the votes of those Members who do not deal with this issue more in the long term, with the main argument that this is a violation of the constitutionally protected rights of the child. That's a lie! That's not true! Does anyone want to say that by 31 December 2013, there has been a mass breach of the child's constitutional rights? I don't think so. Does anyone want to say that the right of a child protected by the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child is violated when a criminal court decides to impose protective training? That's where the court decides. However, the inclusion in a particular educational facility of a child murderer or child thief already, in the sense of the word, of course, of the perpetrator of a crime otherwise criminal, which would be in the case of an adult murder or theft, is decided by the diagnostic institute of course. So where are we? And why are we lying on this political ground? I don't know whose interest that is. I am afraid that these are non-state non-profit organizations who have misunderstood their role here, because they are supposed to help children where the state is not enough. And I fear that it is also a department of work and social affairs, which strictly adheres to absolutely formalistic guidelines, without seeing the real interest of the child, which is to protect both the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u17	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, my colleague, who had a speech on the subject of the amendment of Mrs Válková in particular, has already said a great deal for me. That's why I don't think I'm gonna be keeping you any longer. Let me just remind you once again that we are fully defending and supporting the amendment of Mrs Válková. Although, of course, I have also tabled my amendment, which so slightly alleviates Mrs Válková's amendment in that it only speaks that the diagnostic institute would decide on the transfer of children. However, I must say that I am clearly saying here that we will always support Mrs Válková's amendment in the first place. Mrs Válková here called things a true name in front of me. Whatever we're getting from e-mails. And I am really sorry that we are having an ongoing debate today and are not going to be able to vote. This means that we will definitely repeat the debate again, because don't be angry with me, there are such serious amendments that should be heard just before the vote. I think that you as Members should hear arguments that I think are very good. She will certainly respond, perhaps if she can, even Mrs Kailová, but in the opposite sense, to Mrs Válková's amendment. I am not surprised because I have to say that the arguments will be from the least of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also from non-profit NGOs, which Mrs Válková mentioned here. I am very sorry that, for example, as my colleague Chalánková said, for example, Mr Křístek, an employee of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, can write such e-mails where he supports the very nonprofit organizations and goes against a system that should be the first thing they want to improve and not the other way around. We see in this a clear pressure, a clear pressure on what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing, whether in the Social Services Act, which is now under review, or what Minister Dienstbier even wants to put into the government about the ban on institutional care for children under the age of three and seven, which here he has blatantly defended in my intervention. And unfortunately, he also wrote outrageous answers to the Prime Minister, who unfortunately only said so. It showed that he didn't have any information about this thing. I must say that I am very pleased that Minister Pelikán spoke on the constitutional legal committee and clearly said that the support for Mrs Válková's amendment was on their part, and he said out loud that the support from the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, we don't have the responses, and we don't have the secretary here. We would need to hear them out loud, because in this regard the Ministry of Education lags a bit behind and we have a clear view of them very limping and small. And here we really need a lot of support from them because, above all, their system, which is under their ministry and their strategy, is involved. For me, everything at the moment. I do not think we will be able to make it, and there will certainly be another speech before the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-005-175.u19	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Since we are in the debate underway and there is less than time to make a point of fact, and Mrs Kailová is signed up for a proper debate, I will not speak to her again. I will interrupt this point because, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, we can only discuss the third reading within 14 hours. And so today's meeting is also scheduled. We would not have made it, it would have been unnecessary for us to interrupt the debate now within a speech. I expect that would not have contributed to the final word of the Minister or the rapporteur. In that case, allow me to state the apology that I have received before the end of the meeting, Mr Rostislav Vyzula and Mr Šincl, who are apologizing at today's meeting at 13:00. I want to say goodbye to you by expecting your active participation on Tuesday 25. 10th, when we will continue the adjourned 50th meeting. So far, the agenda for the meeting is approved that the first item will be point 10 - health protection at second reading, paragraph 139 - first reading of the Road Act, and then the Civil Aviation Act at second reading, vehicle traffic at second reading and possibly other items from the first reading that we could discuss. I suppose we can agree on Tuesday on both political grémium and after 14 o'clock on the next continuation and clarification of the agenda. Have a nice weekend and I look forward to seeing you Tuesday at 2:00.
