ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u1	157. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, who is a guarantee committee, Mr Václav Votava, take the place of the rapporteur's chair. The motion for rejection and amendments are published in the press 504/4. It was delivered on 2 June this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 504/5. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening a debate and I have one application and it is Mr Plíšek's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u2	Mr President, my dear colleagues, allow me to make a brief statement on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP on the bill, respectively. amendments to existing laws. TOP 09 has included this law on the list of non-freedoms, on the grounds that this law will indeed harass, if approved, honest taxpayers and honest citizens, because financial customs tax administrations and law enforcement authorities already have a number of tools to prosecute the grey economy, illegal property and property crime. Even the government itself admits that this law will have no increased additional financial effects, that it is an additional instrument. This law has been under discussion here for over a year, which means that the government coalition has not in any way advocated its negotiation, and it seems to be no priority, as the government coalition says. Of course, I'll mention the very specific reasons here. The law, and the Legislative Council of the Government said so, may in some respects also be unconstitutional in terms of measuring a penalty of 100%, which may be liquidation, because a 100% penalty should be inadmissible. The deadline for up to ten years to back up their assets to non-business citizens, and therefore they have no obligation to archive and hide receipts and their documents, is excessive. And the idea that, as part of some neighborly reports, someone will have to back-deliver how he acquired his property, his property, his house, and the like is really about harassing citizens, not about punishing and punishing fraudsters, speculators, and the gray economy. By the way, those con men and speculators have been given more than a year to prepare for this law. This means that they have the opportunity to prepare for the fact that this law will address the difference between income and registered property from seven million, which is some kind of line that was created by some kind of licensing in a government coalition. This law, on the contrary, does not solve it at all when someone so-called. hides his property in the company and does business within his company or when he trades towards tax havens or through foreign companies. There is no way this law can achieve that. This means that this standard is completely ineffective, it is merely filling the electoral lure of the coalition parties. And I would conclude by saying that the TOP 09 supports, of course, comprehensive property returns for politicians, public officials, but we refuse to harass honest taxpayers and honest taxpayers. Therefore, we cannot support this law and I have therefore proposed that it be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u3	Thank you. Mr Cernocho, Mr Beznoska after him, then the Prime Minister and then Mr Tejce.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. The Act on Proving the Origin of Property can be one of the key points of key instruments to combat corruption and financial crime. We can discuss the individual parameters to be introduced by the law and which should apply, but the main problem is that the law exposes general apologies to all financial and corruption crimes of the past. It's actually a small financial amnesty, because it really legalizes all the offences and frauds that happened before the law was effective. We refuse to sweep things under the carpet, so we have tabled an amendment for the Dawn Parliamentary Club, which ensures that past infringements do not be excluded from the review. We say no fat line behind the past. That is why our amendment allows illegal property to be checked back 25 years. All the parliamentary parties before the elections promised to shine a light on corruption and thieves, and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to support me and please ask for the support of our proposal. I don't think there's gonna be a better chance of fulfilling this promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u5	Thank you. I beg Mr Beznoska, and the Prime Minister will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I will join the party of those who consider the proposed amendment unnecessary, because I really think there are enough tools today to detect or punish property crime. So this amendment to the law is redundant. The proposal took the aim of introducing instruments that would ensure taxation of unpaid, non-taxed income. The stated objective is to reduce the volume of retained or non-taxed income mainly by natural persons, but also by indicating whether the increase in assets, consumption or other issuance of income tax corresponds to the income declared by the tax administrator in past periods. Therefore, the purpose is that the non-confessed and non-taxed income determined on the basis of this procedure should be subsequently taxed. The idea's pretty reasonable. Each of us might wish that honest incomes would be taxed and that no one would be able to avoid this taxation. However, I have a problem with how this law intends to combat unconfessed income or property. The proposal will allow the tax administrator to call on him to demonstrate that the increase in his assets corresponds to his income and that these revenues have been properly taxed in the event of a finding of a discrepancy between the taxpayer's income and the increase in his assets. If the taxpayer fails to bear the burden of proof, the tax administrator shall fix the tax on the basis of aids. To this limit, it shall either use standard aids or designed tightening aids. The limit for the use of tightened aids is the expected amount of tax in excess of CZK 2 million. The mechanism will not be applied across the board, but on the basis of a call as a result of an indication of the possible existence of non-admitted income. The possibility of inviting the taxpayer to prove income will be further limited to cases where the difference between the stated income and the actual income will exceed a limit of 7 million on the basis of a preliminary assessment. koruna [[9.40 hours]] One of the tools for unconfessed income detection will be the Institute of Property Statement. Unlike property returns, the declaration of property is not an outright instrument. In order for the tax administrator to be able to call on the payer to make a declaration of assets, three conditions must be fulfilled in a cumulative manner: 1. On the basis of a call for evidence of revenue pursuant to Section 38 (b). (x) there has been no demonstration of the facts required in this call. 2. The information needed to establish the debtor's assets cannot be obtained in any other way or can only be obtained with disproportionate difficulties. 3. The third condition is the assumption that the aggregate value of the assets which the taxpayer is obliged to state in the declaration of assets exceeds the limit of 10 million. Crowns. So what's the problem? Of course, the first and largest is the Institute of Property Statement. That's unacceptable to me. We're talking again about bullying successful residents. There's a limit of 10 miles set here. CZK, that means that no one who would declare assets worth at least 10 million. Kroner, he doesn't have to fill out this statement at all. Does this mean that anyone who crosses this line is treated as a suspect in our state? That's kind of what it looks like. In addition, this fact, this limit of 10 million. CZK, denies the equality of citizens in the tax area. And the worst part is that the tax office can call on the taxpayer to submit this statement not on the basis of direct and incriminating evidence, as everyone would expect, but only on the basis - and now I quote the information - "India or conjecture that may not take the form of evidence." So it means for example. on the basis of a statement or perhaps also on the basis of a decision by a bored financial office official. When suspicion arises, whether justified or not, the taxpayer must prove that he has done nothing. This means that the burden of proof has effectively shifted from the state authority to the citizen. Then where is the presumption of innocence, which is the fundamental pillar of our legal system? So anyone who commits that his income is above average, without any evidence, merely on the basis of conjecture, must prove that he has done nothing wrong. I'm asking what's next. Thus, the objective - however much I understand the attempt to collect more taxes, so this proposal, this amendment, the government bill, is, in my view, bullying, unnecessary and violates the principle of equality of citizens in the tax area. I recommend we vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, there is a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to respond, and I will certainly have sufficient time to do so, for my colleague Plíšek. He spoke that it was possible to go back up to ten years. Yes, ten years ago it is possible to go, but only in exceptional cases, which gives tax rules in § 148, if I am not mistaken. Otherwise, it's generally three years. Since this law has taken a tax route, we must, of course, respect the tax rules. I would be for ten years, even for the 25 years, as one amendment proposes, but this is not possible. That's one thing. Second thing. It was here that he would harass our citizens. Well, he won't bother the honest ones, he'll harass the dishonest ones, and let them bother you, of course, because he deserves it. And I'd like to respond to words about some kind of snitching. It's always said here that she's bullying, that she's gonna be doing some sort of snitching in our society. Come on, Mr Plíšek, through Mr President, you have a really low opinion of our citizens. Of course, I admit, and this is happening today, that someone can turn in their neighbor or anyone else, but that there is a massive rumor going on here, I really am not convinced, and I really think that you may be insulting a number of honest citizens of this republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-002-157.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, since the electoral commission has finished its work, I will ask President Kolovratník to inform us about how the election ended.
