ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Ivan Simčič from 3 p.m., Mr Srečko Meh to 11 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is to discuss the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and the space itself. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 31 Members and Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. To Andre Visiak for an explanation of the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	Dear President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! There's a relatively easy task ahead of me. To justify the interpretation against the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, who in a relatively short period of time has accumulated an extremely large number of readings, which I will divide into four content sets. Firstly, the silence and lies of Mr Sam Omerzel's Minister of Infrastructure will be reinforced by documents. Secondly, the illegal conduct of Minister Omerzel. Third time, the misbehavior of Minister Omerzel. Fourthly, non-compliance with government decisions and recommendations made by the National Assembly. In the parliamentary groups that support the interpellation, we are aware that, at first, when public disclosures were made against the minister, especially from the first point, the lies and silences that the Minister's fate was hanging on the thread, which later became thickened and became a rope when other ministers of the coalition, Mr Jakič, Mr Pikalo and others got into trouble. And then apparently the coalition decided to maintain a relatively high tolerance for the behaviour of its government members because of its survival. And that's the problem. I think this is a problem for our country, and it is right to talk about it in this House. One more thing. Minister Stepišnik, who is today a Member, had to leave because the government said it would respect high standards. Now that we are faced with relatively similar or even worse evidence against the minister of another political set, these standards have been dissolved and the coalition is rounding down further authorities at the price of publicly expressed readings, insults and more than justifiable arguments. So for the first time, Your Honor, I mentioned difficult words, lies and silences, that's a hard word and I wouldn't say it if I wasn't 100% sure of it personally. And I will prove it and argue it. Minister Omerzel, as a candidate for the Minister at the hearing before the Committee of the State Infrastructure Council, stated that he had carried out two affairs for the country, namely that he had received €75 000 in the framework of Eureka and had been carrying out road-time operations since 2008 for Dars. Minister Omerzel also made his candidacy clear, I quote, saying, "I will not sign new contracts in case I am elected Minister." Textual reference. More. In his reply to the interpolation, he also said that he was at the hearing at the time, that is to say, these two things, that he also publicly disclosed all existing business relations with Dars. So, if we understand correctly, this business of maintaining road and weather stations is definitely the only deal with Darsa. That's not true. The minister kept his mouth shut and also deceived that he had been working for Dars for many years, namely the service and annual calibration of salinity meters. These are not road-time stations. He also wanted to do this business this year, and public disclosure prevented him from doing so, and I will be chronologically proving it further with the documents. The salinity meters Room 20 Dars level each year before the winter season, that is to say, send them to service and calibration. This work has been carried out through the contract by Lastinski, who is the representative of the manufacturer of Boschung Mecatronic meters. On 8 October 2013, last October, Dars will receive the offer of Lastinski d.o.o. to balance salt meters. On the basis of this order, Dars sent the order to Lastinski for calibration and service a few days later, or specifically on 21 October. The value of this non-VAT order is EUR 12 000 624. Interesting. This is a very important document. On 30 October Andrej Vidmar, employed as a warehousekeeper at Dars in the Ljubljana motorway base, Grič 54, signed a statement with annexes that he took over 28 pieces of salt meters. The statement is also accompanied by a signatory where all of these were taken over. It is said that Lastinski went for the salt meters on 30 October 2013. Minister Omerzel told the public several times that he had received the order and then returned it all immediately. But he forgot to say, he kept his mouth shut and lied that on 30 October, a representative of the company went to all the highway stations to take the salt meters. Why did he go and take them? To moderate them. 22. 11. Also, the warehousekeeper Robbie Erce on Dars signed a statement that he had received 14 pieces of salinity meters back. That's what they say. Lastinski returned the salinity meters. 3. 12. Only after public disclosure will the company of Lastinski cancel further work. This is said to be more than obvious and clear, gentlemen, that Lastinski is still 30. 10. intended to service and calibrate the gauges as they were taken over at the toll stations. She didn't get them sent by Dars, but she took them over at the toll stations. Only after the press releases did Mr Omerzel change his mind and stop doing business, in short, said he would not do that again. Every new order business is a new deal. I'm glad some of you are moving your heads, because you probably didn't know that until now, because he was deceiving you. Every order-based business is a new deal. And the minister made a commitment at the time of his performance that his company would not start any new business. Nevertheless, it took 28 gauges into calibration and servicing. Worse. If the minister did not intend to measure and service the salt meters, it would probably be timely before the season to tell Dars that he could transfer the licence to another or that he could give it to another person before the season. Today, there are no qualified people who can do this instead of the company Lastinski, the salinity meters are not moderate and, as a result, our roads can be either dangerous or Dars behaves unconscionably because he judges them. These are the consequences of this practice of giving up the business only on the basis of press releases. Once again, at the hearing and in response to the interpellation, the Minister has completely silenced this deal, despite its implementation and despite its intention to carry it out this year. Second act of Minister Omerzel, quoted at the hearing. He said he was doing road-time maintenance for Dars. At the hearing on 2 April, he also made it clear that he would not sign new contracts if he was elected Minister. Now, Your Honor, some chronology on this event and some documents. 20. Ten. Dars sends the company the Lastinian call for tender documentation for the maintenance of weather stations with an invitation to tender. Next, 12.11. last year, the company Sends the Lastinski offer and, at the same time as the offer, the negotiations follow. And here I have a record of the negotiations between the representatives of the company of Lastinski and representatives of Darsa. This negotiation lasted 20 minutes. They negotiated to reduce the price of the river and write 0,6 %. Dearly beloved, tell me how Dars, who was already under the plaza of the minister, can negotiate, and his administration can negotiate with representatives of his company for the price of maintenance of road-time stations. How can this be negotiated? Isn't this more than an obvious conflict of interest? Yes, it is. I think it is. This is said to have been negotiated for 20 minutes, negotiated by 0.6%. Come in. Here we have a statement on the final contract price. As I said, it is 0.6% lower than the baseline price. More information on subcontractors. The delegation of power to Mr Mitja Webar as representative of the Lastinsky and the business was ready for signature. The media reports prevented the conclusion of this Treaty. Even though the minister said he was lying about not signing any new contracts with Dars. He did everything he could to make a new deal with Dars. He negotiated, he negotiated, and that's what the records I showed everyone can be seen. He didn't come up with a job to get published at the end of the day. And the message is 5. 12, this is said to be one week after the media announcements that this is no longer the case when they probably seemed and agreed within their own party. It's more than obvious that the minister wanted to sign this contract. That's what all the chronology of events is about. And one more thing. If Lastinsky was seriously planning to transfer business to another, it would have done so in time, not by cancelling 5. 12. We are talking about the maintenance of road-time stations on highways, which are still particularly important during the winter. Even today, there is a big question about how this business is being done and whether it is being done optimally. Now, interestingly, this also testifies to the character characteristics of Mr Sam Omerzel as to how Lastinsky came to this business. That's very interesting. Until 2008, the maintenance of the time stations was carried out by Tames license. Then, in 2008, a change took place and took over the business of Lastinski. Last August he also obtained a certificate. And who was then employed in this area of Dars? Mr. Anton Jagar. Mr Anton Žagar was awarded several times later for this business and another one, which I will mention later, as the Minister proposed for the award for the Director of Infrastructure. The government also named him. Then it turned out that Mr. Žagar is a snitch, and Dars is even suing him for a 2.9 million-euro contract with fire extinguishers. Mr Žagar will become adviser to the Director on Slovenian Railways again in Minister Omerzel's portfolio. I don't know if it's possible to call it customerism, that's all. That is to say, a man who, on the one hand, allows an enterprise to take over a business in Dars gets a job award when the one who won the job becomes a minister. The first contract in this business is very interesting. The first contract was signed 26. 11. And I have it right here. First contract between Dars and Lastinski. This is the first contract signed and has interesting provisions. It says that the contract price is EUR 171,000 825, the contract deadline is 15 months and enters into force of the contract. The validity of the contract shall be at the time of signature. And this contract, by the way, was signed by Minister Omerzel himself. Look, interesting, less than a month later, that's 19. 12, followed by the first account in this contract. And the first bill was issued seven months ago. It is clear from this account that 7 monthly lump sums of EUR 33 000 250 are charged without tax. This is said to be less than a month after the contract was concluded, he issued an invoice for 7 monthly flats. These are the papers, Your Honor. I'm not making this up. These are the documents that testify to this. Which one of us would have billed seven months ago today and lived as an official, I'm interested. And how did Mr. Jagar and Mr. Omerzel begin to cooperate? It is interesting, as I said, that Lastinski began to maintain road-time stations and took over from Tames. You'd think a better offer would be a new one than an old one. This is said to be a rational matter, with Minister Omerzel entering into the contract and with accounts which also bear witness later, a single novelty, a monthly flat rate of EUR 4 000 per month at the beginning. That's what he said. He was charging for a month's notice that he wasn't here before. Tames didn't know him. And that's what he exhibited and invoiced to Darsa. It's a month's notice. No matter what they do, it's a month's notice. In addition, the price of the intervention of Lastinski was at least 50% more expensive than Tames. This is how the business of Lastinski comes about. But there's another job. I guess the media didn't report this or anything, but I overheared it, but of course it's a very interesting business when we're talking about Lastinski. But this was the first deal with Dars, which he shut up about, but it was a one-time deal. This one's interesting. In 2008, exactly 29. 2. send the company the Final Offer to Dars for a study on the eligibility of the use of flat cables in the execution of electrical installations in tunnels or other facilities with specific requirements. Again Mr. Anton Žagar receives this and betrays it, you can't believe it, a few days later, 3. 3. 2008, a contract to Lastinski d.o.o. worth EUR 33 000 for the production of a study on the eligibility of flat cables in the execution of electrical installations in tunnels or other facilities with specific requirements. That's what these documents tell us. The contract follows, and this one is here, signed by Mr. Omerzel, 1. 8. 2008, with an amount of 34 000620, to produce a study on the eligibility of flat cables for electrical installations in the tunnel. According to Darsa's analysis, this study, which was carried out, translates the prospectus, which was charged at EUR 34 000, completely useless to Dars, has never been used, and therefore was more than an obvious deal that was agreed on in advance between Mr Jagar and the company. It is known precisely and clearly for what purpose. Dearly beloved, all these things were silenced by the Lord and also lied that he had no other business with Darsa, at the hearing before his mother's working body. I don't know your internal meetings that you've had, what he said there, but everything that's written here is backed up by documents that I've just quoted. The second thing we read to Mr Omerzel is that I am now moving on to a different set, although these compounds are somehow intertwined, is Mr Omerzel's illegal conduct. We are in violation of Article 35, paragraph 5, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which the Minister violated because within one month of his appointment to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, he did not provide data on the company Lastinski Engineering d.o.o., whose exclusive owner he is. Within the time limit laid down in the law, it did not transmit the title of the parent number and the seat of the entity to which the Minister is linked or subject to operating restrictions. The law was violated by the Minister by failing to ensure that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the area to which the Minister is responsible, as the body in which the Minister performs his functions, forward within 15 days to the Anti-Corruption Commission a list of entities to which the Minister is associated or subject to operating restrictions. We report to the Minister of Infrastructure a violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, a direct violation of the law. In his reply to the interpretation, the Minister declares that it was a violation, a failure to act, a failure to know the rules, that he did nothing wrong because he broke the law. This is the whole text on the page and half of this answer. And, Your Honor, if one minister considers a violation of the law that speaks of corruption to be integrity as one minor offense, what kind of country do we live in? The Slovenian State Holding Act, half of this law talks about integrity, about preventing corruption, I don't know what else. And here's one of the officials who forwarded this position to an obvious violation, because he couldn't shut it up. It's just that if you didn't, you didn't do anything. This is called some sort of thing that happens to those who do a lot of work, then, of course, this is one problem that has resulted in, in our society, not least we have such a low rating when we talk about integrity and corruption. All the Minister's statements confirm that the Minister did not provide data to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the area of enterprises to which he and his immediate family members are associated or subject, in accordance with Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, to restrictions on business. As a result, the Minister did not ensure that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as the body in which the Minister functions, forwarded to the Commission within 15 days to prevent corruption the list of undertakings to which he and the immediate family members are associated and subject to operating restrictions. Second concrete violation of the law. We are in breach of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws issued on the basis of it, because the Minister has not opened a competitive procedure for the Director-General of the Geodetic Administration for more than 8 months and has allowed the Authority to lead the Chairman by delegation for more than 6 months at a time when that Authority has an extremely difficult task of calculating and determining the amounts of the property tax and all the activities associated with it, including the sending of informational calculations and so on. The Law on Public Servants in Article 83, paragraph 9, provides, inter alia, that, at the time of the launch of the tender procedure, a maximum of 6 months may be performed by the perpetrator of the contract until the appointment of the new official to the position referred to in Article 82(2). This means that the Minister of Infrastructure has not initiated a competitive procedure for the appointment of Director Gurs, nor has he proposed to the Government the appointment of the Acting Officer for the period until the appointment of the Director, in accordance with the public tender, which he would have been obliged to do long ago. Mr Aleš Seliškar, who is carrying out this task, has performed the function of managing the body in the composition of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space only on the basis of the mandate of the Minister, for more than 8 months, which constitutes a grave violation of the law. Your Honor! I would like to continue with an area which is relatively large and relates to the non-economic behaviour of Minister Omerzel, and these elements are quite something. We listed one or two in the interpolation. Minister Omerzel is injured by taxpayers, who was selected by the Minister by the tenderer in the tendering process following an open procedure entitled Manufacture and supply of registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers by a tenderer whose offer was twice as high as the competitive offer. Therefore, taxpayers will pay a higher price for these services or these products. And what was that all about? In the public procurement process, the Minister of Infrastructure or the Ministry received two offers and the Minister selected Kik, d. d., for the price of poor 13 million euros or exactly 12 million 951 000 753 euros, excluding VAT. A joint offer was also made by a German company and a company registered in Ljubljana, which was incorrect and excluded. The value of this offer was 6 million 500. Between the two bids received, the Minister selected two times the cost of the license plate, the one at a low price of €13 million. It is very interesting that the Minister has also made public several times, even to the question of Member Zvonk Černač's delegation, that he has not and has distanced himself from the conclusion of this business, although it is clear that the decision on the selection of the Minister has been signed by 31. Seven. 2013 The minister also explained that this was essentially how the project was costed. Another thing about electronic tolling is the Minister said in the summer, and let's leave this electronic tolling, I want to say about these license plates. In such a case, any economic minister would receive an offer that is twice as expensive as an offer which, due to some formalities, is inadequate, at least repeated the invitation to tender and seek a cheaper offer. Minister Omerzel chose "first into the tree", we say, the most expensive offer, 13 million euros, although he had the paper at his disposal so that someone could make this deal half the price, and because of formality, this offer was inappropriate. The other non-economic behaviour that the taxpayers will feel even more is that of TEŠ 6, the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. I'm not going to explain it long and wide, because we've already said a lot about it, but I'm going to take our readings into a few indents. First time. The terms of the project were also laid down by the guarantee contract and the guarantee law, the rental of loans of EUR 440 million for the credit of the project. One of the key conditions was to limit investment up to a good billion and 300 million euros. The Minister also argued at the hearings that this would have to be respected and the contract price could be reduced. A few months later, the minister, without one credible, validated, approved, reviewed document, was convinced that this investment would cost 130 million more. As soon as the Minister gives such information to those who are attached to this project, he is free to hunt for these 130 million euros. Instead of allowing the minister to make this project cheap, we can see that today we have quite a few examples to make a project cheap because of the lower construction works, this project has again been inflated and has grown. And what is more beautiful for all those who are stuck to these suits and those who are not yet, if the Minister publicly says that this investment will be more expensive than the guarantee law and the conditions that have been given in this House. This, according to my assessment, was very uneconomic and actually caused this investment to be more expensive. And the question is, for how long. We will learn this when it is done, as no document has yet been adopted. Worse. The Government has been familiar with this issue several times at the meetings and has also adopted relevant conclusions which the Minister of Infrastructure has not implemented. We most resent his failure to implement the two conclusions and recommendations later on in Parliament. This is because he did not do everything to limit this investment in accordance with the guarantee law and the guarantee contract. Secondly, it is very relevant that he did not do any of the activities to establish the illegal conduct of the management, of all authorities, including the supervisory authorities of the Italian Power Plant Termoelectrica and Holding. On the contrary. Mr Milan Medved, who is the long-standing director of Velenje Coal, is still sitting in this position today, despite the fact that everyone is arguing with him that for 2.25 euros for gigajoul, he will not be able to dig coal in Velenje Coal. This is said to be nothing done on the basis of these conclusions, which would bring those responsible for a poorly run project, a non-economically run project ahead of the scope of justice, if I may say so. In this non-economic conduct, I could probably mention this, and I will also discuss this, including his stepmother's attitude towards the maintenance of road infrastructure. The fact that the Minister did not insist on means of emergency maintenance of bridges and roads in that country in the course of the budgetary discussion and sent a document to the budgetary hearing which clearly indicates that roads will be closed, bridges closed, that alternating traffic will be put to good use by the Minister of Transport. Another misbehavior, just one more. The thermal power plant Trbovlje, an energy location in Zasavje, with which everyone has been trying so far to make something of it, also the minister made it very clear at the hearings that he would do anything to make something happen there and develop it, is actually in such a situation that they will be closed tomorrow. As far as the RTH connection is concerned, the procedures for the termination of the employment relationship are already in place. Nothing has been done, respectable, and the abandonment of duty in this case is an exceptional mismanagement. I will also refer to non-derogation and non-compliance with the agreement on the participation of the four coalition parties. There are very few concrete commitments or promises in this agreement, but we have found some. And the two that I'm going to count belong in the Ministry of Infrastructure's department, but they haven't been executed, and they're very specific. The first such commitment is that within a few months of the coalition, a concession contract for the construction of the Central Sava will be signed. The signed concession contract is still not available, and it has been 10, 11 months since the government of Alenka Bratušek. Even today, this concession contract is not there. It's too bad. The project's standing. No previous government, a respected prime minister, has committed itself to signing this contract within four months of its launch. She was yours, but she didn't respect it. None of them had made a specific commitment to the deadline before. Another thing that's concrete. In the agreement on the participation of political parties, you wrote that within three months or four months, this should be done by summer last year, reducing the price of electricity by 10% for industrial waste. How much did the price of electricity go down for industrial waste? Certainly not for this price, nor for half of that value, as you promised, which belongs to Minister Omerzel's department. Your Honor! I would touch another one, according to my opinion, very problematic, matters that Mr Minister has triggered in recent days or in recent weeks. Minister Omerzel was obviously deceiving members of the National Assembly, lying to Members, lying literally, at the 30th urgent meeting of the Infrastructure and Space Committee on 21. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I have been there myself, Your Honor, and I have not yet experienced this from the Minister, and I have been in Parliament for the fourth time. And I'm going to be very chronological, and with a magnetogram backed up, that's what I'm going to confirm. From the magnetogram of this 30th emergency meeting of the Infrastructure and Space Committee, it is clear from my initiative that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space should report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the 7th Government Decision adopted by the Government 15. Seven. 2013 reads: "The State Defence Office shall, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, prepare a report within 3 months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies." That's what the government accepted. Two days later, Parliament also agreed and made recommendations to the Government. The Minister said, literally, that "it is in the process of obtaining all permits to go with this material, so the report forward, and because of the sensitivity of the procedure, we have been advised by the defence authorities," I am now literally quoting this, "we have been advised not to go to the public at this point in time, at a time when we will have a positive opinion by the defence, but I see absolutely no difficulty in publishing this report." Minister Omerzel has also said that there is no problem in presenting this to everyone at a time when the State's Attorney's Office will give a green light so that this can happen. So "certain procedures must be respected" – I don't know what procedures, he didn't say – "I, as Minister, respect them, and the moment the Public Prosecutor's Office gives the green light that this report can go on, it will go on." It is said that more than clearly the Minister – because we have proposed that this report be received – says that we cannot get this report because it is not for publication. I don't know if it's accessible to the MPs of the National Assembly. – on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities in the case of the construction of the 6th block of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. We thought what was in this report, but the minister says there's nothing burdensome about this report. Of course, it is more than clear that such a report is accessible to the public and to Members, regardless of whether they have any degree of confidentiality. Then two days later, that's 23. 1. In 2013, at the request of three members of the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision, the State Defence Office submitted a letter of 3 to the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision. 10. Project of the TES 6 Replacement Block Scheme – answers questions. The defence only raised questions in September last year, although the Government's decision was adopted and gave three months of time to answer on the legality of the conduct of the authorities, it was only in September that it addressed the defence of matters which did not concern at all the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities, but the possibility of challenging the treaty between TES and Alstom. And to that end, they also asked some questions. The document, which we then also received, shows that it does not bear any degree of confidentiality, further shows that it was prepared in October of last year. And the Minister lied to the Committee that he was in the process of acquiring and that this could be communicated to us further. Dear Members and Members, how can we ever trust such a minister again, as he will say in this House? How can we trust him? I don't believe him anymore. And not just because he's shut up and listening, it's just a build-up. As we sit at a board meeting tomorrow, where he'll say something again, we'll have to check everything he says through other institutions. Does such a man, respected colleagues and colleagues, deserve to be Minister of the Slovenian Government? I'm sure you don't. Such a person who cannot distinguish between what is the public function of the most responsible or, I would say, the most important public function of the executive branch, such as the minister of this government, and at the same time deals with the country in the same area. The minister obviously wanted to, and the media convinced him to do so and then pressured the coalition when these media releases were published, when the minister actually withdrew from these deals because of these pressures and wanted to do them. Finally, he said that he had resigned from the business and publicly claimed that he would not enter into new contracts at the hearing. The minister shut up his hearing business about the salinity gauges. He didn't say anything about it. He said that when he got the order, he gave it back. First, it's been more than a month since the receipt and return of the order when they sent it back. He received the order in October, took over the meters in November, with a letter of order not to do so and returned it in December. Look, these are the papers. You can look at them. I'd be happy to show them to you. Such a minister, who does not distinguish what it is to perform a public function and what a private business is, cannot, in my opinion, be a minister. You know what's worse than that? That because he wanted to win this business, but he failed just before his conclusion, Dars couldn't do it now. He can't measure the salinity meters, no one does that. In wintertime, today, when we have snow on the road, we have unbalanced and unserved salt meters, because at this time this could not be passed on to another. For all those who doubt it, it would be wise to ask Dars how he does it today. That would be really good. That's one thing. Second thing. Time stations. For weather stations Mr Omerzel did everything to get to work, and in the end he did not come because he was prevented by public announcements and probably by your end. How it is with the transfer and who is doing it today is a big question. The Council of Machines with a few employees to go through this is a big question of how to deal with this. It's not just that he wanted to win the deal. Dars also left it dry, according to his household, that he could not prepare in time for a new contractor. Your Honor! I'm not going in there to go into another area, this is going to be heard many times in the debate, this is the area of the school. It is very interesting who now became director of this agency when Mr Franz Pojbič was resolved and the Minister publicly denied that he had already been informed in the middle of last year about the problems and the procedures that are under way and that he has done virtually nothing since then. That's why Mr. Zhlender resigned. Now he has taken over the practice of party stars, or Zares’s staff, which has a very acceptable client card and is, of course, true that he can do so. And, by the way, we're getting a whole bunch of anonymouss as well as signed letters of conflict of interest between this gentleman, specifically Velov and his business activities so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the current coalition should have at least higher standards and zero tolerance for corrupt practices, at least as high as it had in the case of Minister Stepišnik. Minister Stepišnik was suspended, although he resigned himself, it was a lonely case. If you were still in the package with Minister Stepišnik, Mr Omerzel or Mr Pikalo or Mr Jakič, you would probably survive Mr Stepišnik. I'm sure. So, since you were the only one on the strike, Positive Slovenia took a chance on you. In fact, I am glad that Positive Slovenia had a principled hold a few weeks after the outbreak of these affairs, but when others came along, you decided to cover the cost of maintaining the coalition. You will cover these actions by Mr Omerzel and his company and all those involved, including Mr Žagar. You will probably cover the others who will probably be on wallpaper in the coming days. You know, Your Honor, the opposition is embarrassed. You know why? Because we simply can't write interpolations as quickly as you produce affairs. We can't do that, and even business hands are such that if we do an interpolation today, it will only be dealt with in two, three months. But the current one would probably be 14 days from now. And a respectable, rhetorical question. If the interpretation were against Mr. Omerzel at the end of last year, would you survive? Answer it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you. You received the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the interpretation by letter 9. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And right now, I'm giving my word to the President of the Magi Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I am glad that within an hour the opposition also managed to form and attend the meetings of the National Assembly, since we were more or less alone at the beginning. Today, for the third time in this term, we have responded to the obvious about the work of one of our ministers. As always, we will respond to your findings this time, as we have done twice before, on a substantive and reasonable basis. Unfortunately, however, we cannot say for words, values and accusations that consist of an interpellation filed. For the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, the proposer, under points 1 and 2, is, inter alia, infringement of Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Persuading Corruption, because, as Minister, he has declared his assets to the KPK, but has not submitted further data on operating restrictions. I'm sure the Minister will explain in this part how and what. However, I am very pleased, Mr Vizjak, that from now on we will all have the same standards, including as regards the KPK, because until recently Mr Klemenčič, who is the head of the KPK, was the enemy number 1 in this country when we listened to the words that came from your party, so that I am particularly pleased. At the presentation before the competent committee, Minister Omerzel made it clear which company he owns and what he deals with. More. It has publicly disclosed existing business relations with Dars and its role in the Eureka European project. At this point, he also promised that he would not extend his business with Dars, even though no law, as the KPC confirmed, was bound to do so. We'd expect this story to end, but you decided to continue the interpretation. And what you said today, Mr Vizjak, is particularly interesting. 29. 2. 2008 is supposed to be signed by a disputed contract, the first Darsa contract with a company owned by the current minister. I hope you know who was the minister who was responsible for this part of who was running the government at the time. Whoever signed the contracts will now tell you: Mr German, Mr Rigler. I think you know all these people well, because the Supervisory Board was appointed under your government and the members of the administration who signed this, also under your own government. And if there's anything wrong with that, I'd expect you to act. And not by standing here and explaining it, but if there is something wrong with this business, do what is done in responsible countries or in responsible societies. We have authorities to determine whether this deal was the right thing to do or not. But not to throw it up on the government of Alenka Bratusek, but look who was doing it at the time. But the minister was Radovan Žerjav, by the way. I am confident that in this part too, Minister Omerzel will again explain all the circumstances and answer all the questions and concerns. I should just add here that before everyone judges the legality and ethics of others, in this case Minister Omerzel, he must first clean up before the owner of the threshold. With regard to the perceptions of human resources-related interpretation, I would like to say just one thing. Mr Aleš Seliškar, Director of Gursa, was appointed to this post under the authority of Minister Cernač, sitting behind your benches. He is doing his hard work conscientiously and responsibly, and he has been entrusted with the key priorities of this government, including in particular the preparation and implementation of the final law on property valuation. Therefore, the search for the political responsibility of Minister Omerzel for possible procedural errors is completely inappropriate and unfounded. I also need to give a few words to the school's affairs that you've used and included in the interpretation, and I don't think there's any basis for that. The fact is, in this matter we have dealt with quite profoundly and extensively, because the people involved are from the supervisory authorities and thousands of our citizens, which is personally shocking and shameful to me. However, Minister Omerzel acted in a manner that is only right and necessary. Unfortunately, someone should have acted that way before he did, and unfortunately that did not happen. Finally, let me touch on the TES 6 project, which you are actually discussing with Members and Members of Parliament all week. Speakers of the interpretation in the TEM 6 reports point out that this government is not responsible for the situation, nor is Minister Omerzel, nor has any government so far. You claim the direct responsibility of the individuals involved, although in the past it has also been decided by some ministers who were at the same time head or members of the Supervisory Board of HSE owners. 27. 6. 2008 was signed the basic contract. Who was the Minister for Energy back then? Mr. Vizjak. If I followed the Infrastructure Committee last week, the current HSE Director, Mr Kosorok, said publicly that it was known when the basic contract was signed that the price would not ultimately be the same. I hope that together we will find responsibility for these things. The decision as to how to proceed with TES is not simple and must not be political. I hope we all agree. What you read to the minister is a day, two more for thought, not a minister's mistake, but rather his discretion and responsibility, but a clear tendency to make an investment in the right direction. In our government, the Ministry of Infrastructure has proved to be one of the key ministries that deals with extremely large and complex problems and projects every day, and this is certainly not the fault of Minister Omerzel, who did not create an affair in the schools himself, did not weaken the transport infrastructure and did not decide for the project TES 6. Sadly, too many mistakes of the past occurred during this period, and if we can blame him for all of these problems, we can blame him for not sweeping under the rug as some of his predecessors do. Step by step and with the support of the entire government, the measures we take at the Ministry will show results. I sincerely hope that you will continue to allow Minister Omerzel to respond to the findings himself, and I am confident that he will succeed. He's got my back. At the time of Minister Virant's intervention, I asked you, my opposition colleagues, to let us work. Ministers and ministers of our government have extremely important tasks, and if you think they feel and feel more responsible for the opposition's client interests than our citizens, you are deeply wrong. We want to do good, good for Slovenia and our citizens. And that goes for all the ministers and ministers of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, President. I give the floor to Minister Sam Omerzel to explain the written reply. Before that, Mr Jože Tanko wants a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honourable President of the Government and ministers and nervous MPs of the coalition! As far as these eyewitnesses are concerned, Mr President, I don't think they were in place. The opposition Members are being completed and we will come to the hall much sooner than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For two months, this government is functioning without the key two ministers, and reforms are needed and there is nothing they can do. But there is one question that the President of the Government should answer and he does not answer. In your coalition contract, you have written down to fight economic crime and corruption. Even in the new proposal for a coalition treaty, at least to those who are accessible, this is written, and this is even more explicit. Also in the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is under government procedure, you have a third of the law devoted to integrity and the prevention of corruption. Today, despite this perception, the President of the Government has not spoken a word about this. The observations we are talking about relate to the integrity of the official, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. And integrity also applies to the time before the function takes place. Unfortunately, Madam President-in-Office of the Government, and I think that Mr President of the National Assembly should also point out that these actions were not devoted to the performance of the President of the Government. It shall be settled with the Group of Members and history, but shall not speak of the facts which are relevant to this meeting, this item of the agenda. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	What will be your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Mr President, I propose that you focus on the agenda and on the indications that have taken place, not on 2007 and 2007. [[…]] We're talking about events that have to do with the work of a functionary, a specific functionary, who's fired the obvious actions and not all the others. I suggest that you warn the President of the Government because she did not speak in accordance with the agenda item, and not with the observations relating to the agenda items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. The President of the Government had the opening statement. She won't have another word. With regard to the content of the interpolation, I think we must understand, however, that the content of the interpolation is much broader than that of the amendment, where the Rules of Procedure tell us very clearly that we can explain and discuss exactly that content. I believe that there will be many views in the debate today in the context of interpolation, including in history, and I hope in the future, and this is somehow an integral part of the debate in the context of interpolation. Mr. only Omerzel, you have the floor to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Dear President, thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished colleagues from the Government, welcome to my first interpretation. This interpelation of me is made up of six points, six points without a real base, obvious without content. The President has touched the key parts several times, and I have learned at the previous meeting of the committee myself, and at the meeting of the National Assembly, to repeat in any way, however we place the content on the table, as often as we repeat it, the opposition does not want to hear it. But that's the part. We have to get used to it. The key is that those who want to hear the content hear it. Let's just go after all six points of my interpolation. At the first point, I find a violation of the Integrity Act and of what is related to the company in my possession. There's a lot of manipulation in the media, and this morning I heard this manipulation again on the radio, so I didn't report my KPK assets. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true. I've reported all my assets to the KPK. The KPK has sent me instructions on what I must do, and I have faithfully fulfilled this. And once again, in the application of my assets, KPK is also my 100 percent share in my company, Lastin Engineering. When we are talking about introducing me as a candidate for minister, I made it clear on that day that I am the owner of the company Lastinsky Engineering. More. I also said that my older brother owns the company Lastinski Pak. Why am I saying this? The content and integrity of the functioner are crucial. And I, as an official, am committed to reporting companies owned and owned by family members. I, not that I didn't hide anything, I told you the day I introduced myself, which companies are owned by me and which company is owned by my brother. I want to point out that I never intended to hide anything. Moreover, on the contrary, I am proud to own this company, and I created it from nothing. When I went to Ljubljana to study, I went to one of the cowboys, and everything I did in my life I did with honest work and effort. I'm proud to own this company, and I'll say it anywhere, and I'm sure there's nothing wrong with it. When we talk about operating restrictions on the official, he says that I did not inform the ministry, that is, I did not inform him because I did not know that, in addition to reporting to the KPC, I must also inform the ministry. The moment I knew I had to do it, I did it. What is crucial in all this story, and what the opposition does not want to hear at all, is always going back to bureaucratic stories, is content itself. When we talk about content itself, I have told which companies are owned by whose, and what is crucial, the content itself, when I talk about integrity, speaks of the fact that the company is owned by the ministry's operating restrictions. My company or my brother's company has never done business with my ministry, and I also assure you that it will never do business with my ministry. When we go to another point where I'm told that I've been misleading the public, we're also talking and going back to the past, the business that I, as an entrepreneur, have done with Dars, of course, again all without content, and the eyewitnesses that are flying on to not know what manipulation in this business. The President made it very clear who was in power when I signed this contract, which option was in the supervisory councils and who was in the administrations of Darsa. Mr Jagar, mentioned above, was also not a signatory to this Treaty. The signatories were the President of the Board and the member of the Management Board. But when we talk about legal work, if we look at facts and content, the first aspect we have is legal. Here the KPK Senate was perfectly clear. I wouldn't violate any law if my company continued to work with Dars. And I'm going to show you the document and the answer to the KPK and I'm going to read the dictatorship that the KPK wrote. "Dars is an entity with its own legal personality and does not have any officials in its kind, which is why the provisions of the ZIntPK on operating restrictions do not apply to this entity." So the KPK was perfectly clear. Me as an official and my company could normally move on with Darsa and not break any laws. Then let's move on to the promises. In the obvious interpretation and also in the answers he writes, Mr Vizjak refers to the magnetogram, but of course he does not quote the part that does not correspond to him. When I presented myself to you as a candidate for the minister, I made it clear that I would not expand my business with Dars. I wasn't hiding anything. And that was my promise not to expand my business with Dars. Dear Members and Members, what Lastinsky did for Dars in 2008 and beyond, until I became Minister, we did the same things in 2013 when I was already Minister. We haven't done one extra piece of work, and let's talk about it. We've done what we've done before, and we've done it now. We didn't spread the scope of our business, and that was my promise. However, it is one of the key questions that has arisen, even something among you, that has asked me why I then gave up this business, why I decided to do so, but if the legal-form Senate of the KPK has made it clear that I could do this business normally, I apologize, my company, not me. I was about to decide whether to keep working or if my company is working with Dars or not. In view of the media reports and the pressures, I have estimated that if I want to continue working as a minister without any media pressure to give up this business. An important part of my decision was also my honest intentions and my credibility. On the one hand, we have legal confirmation that there is nothing wrong with this and that I can work normally on the other hand, and on the other hand we have Dars, whose departmental minister I am. I have decided to give up this business because of my credibility and to prove my honest intentions. And what's important to stress is, I gave up this business, my company gave up this business for all eternity. So I'll never do this job for Dars again when I'm no longer secretary. That we were serious, we approached the return of the Boschung license. Boschung Mecatronic is a renowned international company from Switzerland. We have been a regional exclusive representative for this company all these years. When we decided not to do this business anymore, we responsibly informed the principle that we are returning this licence to them and asking them to find a new company that will be the holder of this licence for Slovenia. There are several hints here again by the opposition that this new company is connected to me and I don't know what. Pure lie, pure manipulation. Boschung from Switzerland is a very large company, you can look at the websites, it's the ones that set the rules of the game, and they are the ones who decide who will be given the license, not the Lastinski. They've decided who they're going to hand over this license to. By getting our license back, I think we've proven how serious we are about not doing business with Dars. On the other hand, we promised our principle because it was a disappointment that we would no longer do this, much that we would transfer all knowledge, all that will be needed to support the licensed company free of charge. The new company will have a complex transfer of know-how from Lastinski and there is no doubt that they will also be able to succeed in this work. And once again, I stress that a complex transfer of knowledge will be done for them free of charge. When we go to the 3rd point, where we see a violation of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants regarding the non-titlement of the Director of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, we come back to an area where the opposition does not deal with the content, but they are trying to bureaucraticly show how I, as minister, have done something wrong. But it's very interesting that they're not even able to verify the facts of what they're writing at the interpolation points to have some real basis. They're telling me I've appointed the director of the Geodetic Authority. 28. 2. In 2013, their Minister, Mr Zvonko Černač, and not Minister Omerzel, appointed this Director. Jehovah’s Witnesses — Jehovah’s Witnesses? 4. In 2013, honourable Members and Members, this is less than two weeks after I took office as Minister, I have proposed to the official council the launch of a competitive procedure. They weren't able to verify that either. 14. 5. The Council of Officials appointed a special competition committee and the procedure ran. The public tender was launched 19. 12. If we look at these dates – where did I as a minister make a mistake? Except that Mr Černač appointed Mr Seliškar or, under his authority, appointed him to this position. There will be no doubt, however, that Mr Seliškar is correctly carrying out his challenging task, and there is no doubt about his work that what we now have is a challenge to the property tax. But what's obvious to me is completely groundless. At point 4, we are talking about misleading the public with regard to the situation in schools. Dear Members and Members, once again one manipulation and operation without content, so that I will not use any harder word that the opposition so easily uses. A lie is an extremely difficult word, but they operate without difficulty because they are unaware of the dimension of that word. With regard to the situation at the school, I agree that this is an embarrassing situation for Slovenia. And until I knew it, I would have been willing to swear that such a thing is not possible in Slovenia. I believe that we all agree that this is a situation which is in no way allowed in Slovenia. However, if we are going to look at the facts of the school events themselves, let us see the obvious that I haven't known about this since, and that I should have acted sooner. The first information I received about the situation at the auto schools as a minister was a few days before the press conference, which we coordinated with the police. The press conference was 12. 11. 2013 A few days earlier, I got the first information about school irregularities. To ensure and clearly prove that this is the case, of course, we have reviewed in detail all the pre-departure records in our ministry. The first pre-transmission record was between Mr Black and Mr Maher. The next pre-transmission record was between Mr Maher and me. None of these records mention an irregularity in school. One word, one sentence is not in this pre-transmission record. Mr. Cernač, when he was working on pre-departures, he did not mention in any words the irregularities in the auto schools. More. Let's move on. The pre-departure record between the former director of the Directorate and the director of the Directorate is later, and once again this pre-delegation record does not reveal anything about irregularities in the school. And more than that, let's move on. The Agency for Transport Safety, which was closest to all these developments, does not mention any irregularities in the school system in a single word between the former Director, Mr Pojbič and the late Director. Dear Members, then it is clear to me that I knew this before and that I did not act. But let's leave history now, I think it's perfectly clear, in the records nowhere and it's never been mentioned. The moment I found out about the school irregularities, I acted. We've done surveillance of all agencies, not just the Transport Safety Agency, we've done surveillance of the Directorate. I must say that in solving the problem we have had an extremely coordinated good cooperation between the ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, coordinated action, indeed the whole team has done extraordinary work and serious results have been very fast here. At the press conference, it's been 17 years. 1. 2014, so that's 12. 11th Press Conference, where we found out, my team at the Ministry, for irregularities, 17. 1. We present the results of what we have learned and how to proceed. And a few pages about what was discovered. We presented in very detail at the press conference the results of the irregularities that took place in the schools, but only one excerpt from what is extremely interesting. In 2010 no professional supervision, in 2011 no professional supervision, in 2012 10 professional supervision. So this same opposition, which was in power at the time, carried out the entire direction of the Directorate and the Safety Agency for 10 professional controls. In 2013, we carried out 66 professional inspections and also requested that the Court of Auditors re-evaluate the functioning of the Road Safety Agency. On this page, I just want to graphically show immediate action to address the irregularities identified. Above all, I want to show you this content from this point of view, to see how we are taking a substantive approach to the problem that has emerged in the past and that we are solving, correcting and working on the future to be a little different. On this page, you have all measures to address the irregularities identified immediately, and on the next page, what we will do to move forward in this area, so that similar situations will no longer take place. On the one hand, we have a change of legislation, so we will address all those shortcomings in the law that have been and have allowed these irregularities to happen, and on the other hand, what is even more important and I am most satisfied in solving all problems, we have found a way forward, we have prepared solutions, systemic solutions, how we will regulate this area, not just legislation, but also put the system primarily in the direction of digitisation and traceability of all events, so that these events and similar irregularities in the future will no longer take place. Point 5 shows me ignoring the conclusions of the National Assembly, anything related to the Heat Power Plant, or investment in the 6th block. Dear Members and Members! We sat on the Infrastructure Committee at an extraordinary meeting in the National Assembly for two days to address this issue. Today I have been in the National Assembly for the fourth day alone, and I hope that I do not speak too much, that you will not hear too many words from me these days, but the recommendation made by the National Assembly we have taken seriously. There is no doubt that we are absolutely aware of the seriousness of the investment in the 6th block, the impact on the holding group of Slovenian power plants and also on Slovenian energy. We have taken the issue very seriously. Again, we are talking about the events and decisions that have been taken in the past, which must be resolved by this government and this ministry. And the same opposition that made the key decisions is obvious to me and interprets me at a point where I'm actually correcting the mistakes and wrong decisions of this same team, which is now interpreting me for it. I don't know what word I'd use for that, but the absurdity of this interpolation and these points is really going across the board. I believe that even in view of the conclusion of the meeting, what I am saying is how we have taken a conscientious and serious approach to solving the issue of investment in the 6th block, on the content presented that it was clear that we are not underestimating this problem. We reviewed all the key events, what is more important, the current situation, the situation in this investment we presented both to you and Slovenia. I hope to say that for the first time, properly, honestly and completely, without mistaking and creating numbers and displaying what you as Members and the public would like to see. More. At this point, I, as the secretary of the department, hope to say that in such a serious investment as the Termoelectrica Šostanj, the Minister of State must also use all his competences, knowledge and competences. I absolutely don't want to be the Minister of Project Management, but in such important projects, when we talk about billions of investments, it is the Secretary-General who has to use his knowledge and competences in this area to identify investment plans, to recognize the shortcomings of investment plans and to point out that. Such a minister who is unable to do so – and in the past the ministers have not been able to do so, today the state of the investment proves that such a minister does not deserve to be a minister. It is the Minister who must come before you and draw your attention to the risks and risks of investments that are so important and so strongly involved in this country and in individual resources. Not only have we presented the current situation in detail, but we have also proposed guidance and how to proceed, and on very clear facts, on numbers, on what is happening today. We have presented the figures and on the basis of these figures we have also proposed how this investment should be carried forward. According to history itself, I have already repeated several times that in fact I do not like to deal with history, but certain stories, certain investments that have such a strong impact on the whole country as the 6th block, still need to look at historical facts, especially today when this opposition is interpreting me on an investment in the 6th block, and from that table I have taken only a few key decisions. In 2006, an energy permit was issued for 600 megawatts. At the time, Mr Vizjak was the competent district minister, and interestingly, Mr Vizjak was also the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plants. Next key event. In 2008 the signature of the contract between TES and Alstom. Mr Andrej Vizjak again. And let's look at the last key act, the key event related to the guarantee, 30. 11. 2012, once again, this opposition, which is interpreting me today, was in power, and this opposition was in the government at the time, and they were the ones, with Mr. Chernac's responsible minister, who gave support to the famous EUR 1.3 billion without being responsible, competent and presenting to us the risks and inconsistencies of the NIP5, the shortcomings that have led you to be misled. Point 6 of the interpolation readings. It's also a very interesting point. This is where I find myself choosing a more expensive bidder. The point is connected to the license plate, i.e. the license plate operator. Again, I must say that in the absurdity of this interpretation, they have defeated themselves. Let's look at the facts of why I'm saying this. Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of State, led the preparation of the invitation to tender for registration plates and tendering conditions. The invitation to tender was also published under Mr Zvonk Černač, Minister of State at the time. So I, as secretary of the department, had absolutely no impact on the process of preparing the documentation, what conditions they were setting because I wasn't there at the time. So this same opposition has made a decision that is interpreting me for this point today. They laid down the conditions and published the invitation to tender. But let's move on. The process was going on. When it came to collecting bids, two offers arrived, one of which was incomplete, and we are not talking about bureaucratic errors. We know very well that today the Law on Public Procurement in the non-essential parts of the tender allows for the completion of that dossier, which is not complete, but is not allowed in key ones because it would affect the decision later. And two offers arrived. Kig from Slovenia and Utsch from Germany. The offer of Utsch from Germany was incomplete, and here I ask you to pay attention, be manipulated and operate again with the minister. There is a commission at the Ministry dealing with tender documents, not a minister. At least that's how it is with me. If they did so during the time of their governments, then let them ask themselves what they were doing. In my capacity as Minister, the Commissions, which are composed of competent people, do all that is involved in the calls for proposals for each area. And I'm sure they know very well what they're doing. This Commission, having examined both offers, found that one bid was incomplete and therefore proposed to conclude a contract with an undertaking that had fulfilled all the conditions of the tender. Again, I will not go into the details and conditions of the invitation to tender which were defined for the time of Mr Chernač. This decision was appealed by Utsch of Germany and the decision was against the State Audit Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Audit Commission has confirmed the decision of the Commission of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space on 13 sides. Who am I as secretary, and who is the commission at the Ministry to challenge the decision of the State Audit Commission, please! And that's what the opposition demands of me. Let's move on. Regardless, the prices that have arrived, I also wanted to know whether these 12.9 million are the correct number, or whether the prices are comparable to what we have abroad. And this study was also done in parallel when the State Audit Commission analysed the complaint made by one of the tenderers. And I'll show you a table where we have comparable prices. We recalculated the prices to the license plate. If we look at the offer we received from the Slovenian company Kig, the price is 18.64 euros per table. In Austria, this price is €18, €20 in Belgium, €40 to €44 in Italy, €25 in Germany, €74 in the Netherlands, €40 in Switzerland and €20 in Sweden. When we look at all these numbers of bidders across Europe, we see that this offer is within these limits or even cheaper than other providers across Europe. Therefore, also with this aspect, in view of the decision of the State Audit Commission, I am perfectly calm that this Treaty can be signed and signed and that this company can carry out these activities, these services for the Republic of Slovenia. One very interesting accusation and direction in this interpretation written by the opposition. The opposition in this interpretation is clear to me that, as Minister, I should decide and cancel this call and repeat it. Dear Members and Members, I do not know whether this is intentional or out of ignorance, but this opposition requires me to act unlawfully. If I want to cancel an invitation to tender, then I must have serious arguments for this, there must be some legal basis why I can do so. I can't say, distinguished tenderers, the invitation issued by the Ministry, you know, we were actually having a little bit of fun, but you've made offers, you've been working hard, and you've been making serious investments in making professional offers, and we've been joking, and we're just going to be cancelling tenders after a long time. I guarantee you that if you did something like this, you would have sued us with all the right of the tenderer, and it is very likely that you would have received this suit. At the same time, as a minister, I would act unlawfully. And this is what this opposition – what direction it gives and what it wants from me. Dear Members and Members! At all points of interpretation and in all media pressures and deception in the public, the use of very difficult words which the opposition is unaware of, what weight, lies and the like, of course, the key question is asked, and this question has been raised by quite a few colleagues from this government, and most of my friends: "Just, why are you insisting? Look, what are they doing, what are the injustices, how many irregularities, how low blows from under each level, why are you insisting on this path?" Well, that's one of the more important questions about this whole story of mine. When I decided to go on this journey to become a minister, I decided because I had already seen that much in this country was not going as well as it should have been. When I became a minister and buried myself a little deeper into the problems of the past, I saw that I didn't know exactly how many mistakes had happened in the past, how many things had been thrown under the rug and how many things needed to be settled. But it's okay. I have always been so made in my life that I loved multidisciplinary business, this is the ministry, and I have to say that despite all the problems and torments I have, as far as the work and content of the work itself is concerned, I enjoy this work. I love this job, and I live for this department 24 hours a day. What is an additional burden and where the opposition tries to do everything possible and impossible ways to throw pollen under our feet in order to be less successful in their work, this part is a little less pleasant, but it will also not have a significant impact on my work. All this time of these media attacks on my part by the opposition, as far as the ministry is concerned, has just gone smoothly forward, but only a few more nights ago, I have spent preparing materials and facts for myself, and the contents of the evidence cited in this interpolation, and of course in the whole story before this interpolation, where the opposition has been extremely active in its destructive moves, how to prevent them from doing anything good for this country. If we look at the contents. As Minister, I have set myself some substantive areas, as I myself estimate, that are very important for the country in the future. When I took up this function, one of the main lessons was the area, not just energy, but at the other Directorates of my Ministry of Energy in the past, there has never been a single strategy to date. In this country, energy had no one to connect everything, including fossil fuels, when we talk about production, both from renewables, from nuclear sources, from transmission systems, so that we could once have a single strategy where the energy sector in this country wants to continue. This is one of the key areas of work I've set myself up as a minister. I must say that today, at the Ministry, not only at the Directorate of Energy, but also at the other Directorates, we have a very good team, a team that is competent, has knowledge and, above all, energy to make a difference in this country and that things are going in the right direction to set up a strategy and then, regardless of who is coming after us, once Slovenia is following this vector, without having a separate vector segment in the same direction and dancing in the same place, and we should really follow a long-term strategy where this country is in specific areas and where Slovenia also sees itself in this Europe, in this common country of Europe, in the long term. In the field of energy itself, we have prepared guidelines with a team at the Directorate of Energy and the key foundations of the energy concept of Slovenia. This energy concept of Slovenia is in the stage of presenting it to the government first, then to the coalition, partly in the professional circles where we consulted and collected key data, faced an extraordinary response. Personally, my team at the Ministry is convinced that this is the story that this Slovenia needed in the field of energy. All based on facts and figures and all the strategy is based on numbers – not on thought or feeling – and we are working on a strategy where Slovenian energy 2020 will be where 2050 will be. What is important is that we have actually recognised where the key advantages of Slovenian energy are and what needs will be. With regard to the energy concept of Slovenia, it is crucial that we build the whole strategy out of the needs the Slovenian economy will have, to which it will have to respond and what Slovenian energy will have to provide. With this energy concept, I am sure that we will fully rejuvenate Slovenian energy, lead it in the right direction, and that will also be the real foundation for the development of the economy in Slovenia, and this will also be the real basis for creating a new job, not jobs. We're talking about work, that's what we need to talk about. It is the work that will generate development and progress in this country. Of course, I believe that we are all aware that healthy, strong energy is in fact a cardio-system of this economy. We're going to take care of this, and the energy concept is going to move this story forward. The next area, where we have also recognised key orientations and a strategy that has not been sufficiently developed in the field of infrastructure and transport. Slovenia has an extremely strategic position concerning the intersection of traffic routes, the fifth so-called Mediterranean corridor and the tenth corridor are being cut in Slovenia. We have recognized this as a strategically important advantage for Slovenia. With the additional infrastructure of the logistics centre, we will play an extremely important role in this infrastructure and transport in Slovenia. And we're talking about generating a new job again. What is crucial, i.e. the fifth corridor, investments are being made this year, in particular the part that is linked to investments and drawing on European funds, is invested EUR 360 million, at the interoperability of an additional EUR 140 million, so we are talking about almost EUR half a billion in investments in this infrastructure. These projects are underway. The tenth corridor, which has been neglected in the past mainly because of the Balkan wars, has lost sight of its significance. At that time, I held meetings both with the German Minister for Transport, with the Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian and also with the Turkish Minister, the connection between Istanbul-München, the 10th Corridor, which is important for Slovenia, is extremely positive in all these countries. All the ministers have given me their support to go together to revive this corridor. With such an important intersection, by recognizing this strategic advantage, Slovenia will once and for all also strategically lay the objectives and foundations for transport and this infrastructure in this area. And what matters is, as Minister, I will no longer be in this position for those who come after me to recognize this advantage on the basis of arguments and to take this strategy forward. But it's not like we're changing it with every government and turning it back once in a while. In arranging the premises and building the buildings, one of the first things under the carpet was the so-called black construction, one of the first problems I encountered as a department minister, also responsible for the space, and at that time the media pressure from all sides was again, to put on a quick one-fire action to prepare and try to solve this problem. We have decided with a team at the Ministry, with a very good professional team, that we will also approach this issue professionally and systematically. Not by shutting down, but someone who comes into my position will be solving the same problem again. We have decided to set up a system for this issue and that this area will be regulated once and for all. It's like we're gonna be here for the next four terms. In the area of spatial regulation and construction, we have prepared the whole concept, presented it to the government, and the government has confirmed it. I must say, the response was extremely positive. However, as with all solutions to the problem, we have systematically approached, on the one hand, the whole process of regulating the premises and building the buildings, and everything goes in the direction of digitisation and, in particular, the reduction of the process. It is unacceptable for us in this country to accept, and for up to 10 years, that we will also create, on the other hand, an environment that will be friendly to domestic and foreign investors, that when an investor arrives, that he will have all the information gathered at one point, that he will know exactly where it is allowed to build, what kind of facility he can place, and on the other hand that he will get this information in one place, that he will also know what kind of consent he needs and what the risks of his investment are. On the other hand, when we look at the process itself, what is more important from the point of view of this country, so that when we have all the data collected in one place, all the registers in this country, including us as a state and competent institutions, will be able to monitor what is being done in the investment itself and whether everything has been regulated and invested, built in accordance with what the initial documentation was. On the other hand, when we talk about systemic regulation, we have on the one hand a process of how the whole process is carried out and on the other hand we have legislation. And also through legislation we have foreseen and prepared concrete timetables, a complete system-wide revision of legislation, so that on the other hand legislation, as a tool, will follow the process of putting into space and building facilities. I touched the project management earlier. As Minister, I would like not to engage in project management in the long term, this is not the task of a minister, but certainly because of the situation and some problems under the carpet, I also have to leave this area in the past. I am certainly convinced in the long term that projects are coming and that the Minister will also have to involve himself with his knowledge and competence. TES is definitely one of such projects. When we talk about such extensive, so demanding investments, which have such a strong impact on the country, then even the resortary minister must use his knowledge, then the resort minister must be the one who will come before you, which will be related to your work, and present to you the information for which he stands. It is even more important that this department minister has competence and knowledge that he will be able to recognize the dangers and also to present them to you, that we decide together whether or not we are prepared to carry certain risks. I'm not saying that at a certain point when you make decisions, you know everything. If anything, I have learned this in my business world, and it is also in the stories we take, for which we are also responsible as a country. Decisions are always taken at certain risks, but we need to know these risks. We need to know these risks, and it is the duty of the Minister to present these risks to you, and then on the basis of this, we know why we have decided to do so. I am confident that in the future there will be projects, we will invest, I especially see on infrastructure very important projects that will start an economy where we will be with. What I am saying today is that I will take my time as a department minister, review the investment documentation together with my team, and draw attention to the risks that these investments will bring with them. Also, about the investments that I will support as a department minister, I will not only paint you that part of the story that you like and that you would like to hear, it is not so important, it is more important that you bring risks with you, and those that can in the long term mean to us the story that we have today in our investment in 6th block in Scotland. But we still have a few projects that are currently under way. What I doubt, what I am dealing with, is all the projects that I have somehow inherited, driven and supervised in this direction, that they will be carried out realistically, and that those that we will take decisions to take, that we will take on the basis of facts, that we will support and carry on only those projects that are good for this country, which have long-term positive effects and that we will always come to the conclusion that they are positive, that they will have a positive impact on economic growth in this country. With regard to what has been heard today and what has been heard, I will be happy to explain and explain further. What is crucial, all that you have heard today and all that you will hear, is one of the key answers, why, in addition to the content that I want to carry out in this ministry, why I insist on working forward, all that I am told is that it is without a real basis, without real content. I have a completely clear conscience, and I am confident that I can continue to work qualitatively, that I can really contribute a lot to this ministry with my team for projects and challenges that await us during this difficult period to take this country and this Slovenia with this ministry, which is responsible, which has a very important impact on investment in all the departments that we are covering, to take this country to a better time. Not only our children, but that we too will have a better life, so that we can live in one environment that is appropriate for what Slovenian people deserve. But what is the fundamental right that I believe in and for which I have fought all my life is the right to work. This is the environment we need to create Slovenia and Slovenia. I am convinced that we are a working, honest nation, and what is the duty and obligation of us as governments and, in particular, of these coalitions, is to ensure an environment where every Slovenian and Slovenian person will have the right to work. And those who want to work must have this opportunity, and this is our responsibility to create this environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Before we go to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members, we will wait long enough to remove the computer and then allow all the other discussers to make good use of the speaker's desk. With regard to the desire to get the word of Mr Vizjak as a proponent, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will first give the opportunity to postpone the positions of the groups of Members, and then you have the first word in the debates of Members and Members. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, we must give the floor first to the Members' groups. Procedurally, Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Dear President! Look, it would be fair and not least I have three hours to talk about these things and react to them. That is why I have applied as a motioner for a word and please tell me on what basis you cannot give me a word at this point in time under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please tell me, or I insist on getting the word that, at least within my available time, I will respond to some obvious deceptions and distortions and lies, and I have to use that nasty word again, which I do not like to use when it is really not in place, and I would really like to use a word. I ask you, Madam President, to substantiate your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	I will, Mr. Visac. You got the first word as a proposalr, the rules of procedure made it possible and actually allows you to get the first word in this case. Otherwise, as a proposalr in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure and paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure, you shall be given the floor at any time during the debate of Members. Before that, however, we must make a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. At any time during the debate of Members, however, you may have the floor and in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 4, I cannot give you this moment as a candidate. We continue the debate. Mr Michael Prevc will give his position to the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are not signatories to the request for the interpretation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel, but not because we would not want to do so, but because we were not invited to contribute our signatures. But today, I can assure you from this place that we are strong supporters of this interpretation in our Group. We could even say that every day we are more confident that the work and responsibility of Minister Omerzel must be very serious in this national assembly. I would even like to say that Minister Omerzel, as on the current tape, is gathering points for interpretation and that not only in the Slovenian People's Party, but that the wider Slovenian public is also increasingly asking where Minister Omerzel's policy will lead us. My answer is that Minister Omerzel's policy will not lead us very far. Why? Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, since Minister Omerzel has great problems not only with respect for laws and other regulations, he also has great difficulties in controlling the department he runs, and he has far the greatest problems in having lost all credibility as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and one of the highest political officials with his work in the eyes of the Slovenian public. Remember, Minister Sam Omerzel, after the fiasco of his predecessor, Igor Maher, took over this responsible and demanding resort on April 2nd last year. His presentation to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space was marked by commitments that he would no longer conclude any contracts if he was appointed Minister. As we know from the media report, last autumn, Minister Sam Omerzel submitted an invitation to tender for the maintenance of road-time stations. Although Minister Omerzel was quick to explain that he had not signed the contract yet, his deception was quite clear. All those who know the rules of public procurement are very well aware of what it means to apply for a tender and that such a contract has already been signed in practice. As if that were not enough, the media also made public information on the contract, after which the Minister's company Lastinski engineering d. o. o. performed a full business for Dars during his term of office, although it was not charged to Dars later on due to the public's attention. But this story actually just opened Pandora's box. As it turned out very quickly, Minister Omerzel has taken care not only of the entrepreneurial interests of his share, but also of a number of violations of laws and of misleading the public. Since the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which he has breached by failing to provide information on his company, Lastinski Engineering d.o.o., has also not provided a list of entities to which he is associated as a person as the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Anti-Corruption Commission. All Members and Members of the National Assembly, as well as the entire Slovenian public, are aware of what is going on with the project TEŠ 6. At his presentation on the same day as he was elected Minister, the Minister pointed out that TES 6 should be upgraded and placed in office, and he quoted him as saying that "the extent of the investment in TES should not be increased". In fact, last year, due to the TES issue, the competent financial and monetary policy committees were convened as infrastructure and space, which adopted important decisions on the fulfilment of the conditions for the guarantee and the determination of the actual value of the investment. Neither Minister Omerzel nor the Government reported on the findings, so an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was convened last July. The new deadline for the submission of the report was 30 November, but Minister Omerzel and the Government did not report this time either, and the National Assembly discussed this issue again at an extraordinary meeting convened last week. Meanwhile, the investment in TES 6 is joyfully botched in the safe protection of state guarantees on the shoulders of taxpayers. But Minister Omerzel is like nothing. Bribery at the auto schools, another ghost who escaped from Minister Omerzel's bottle. Of course, it is true that irregularities, rather, criminal and corrupt acts took place before his arrival. But it is also true that the Minister, after learning about the affair not only did not act, even more, tried even to convince the public that he knew nothing about it until November last year. He was lied to by the former Director of the Transport Safety Agency, who publicly said that more than six months earlier, he had personally handed him the report of the Commission with a warning of the crimes he had committed and together with the report of the Criminal Police. Minister Omerzel replied in writing on 9 January this year with very interesting comments, so allow me to highlight some of them in particular. It is interesting that the minister is convinced that his breaking of laws is only about, quote, "less important bureaucratic slips and awkwardness". And in the following, I quote, it is said that "it is only a matter of procedural nature." His response to the obvious shows that we cannot tell him as a high-ranking official because he does not know the law enough, and he himself points out to the Commission for the prevention of corruption that he is responsible for having to inform him of his legal obligations. Well, with regard to these really original explanations, we are even more convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that this is a purely ordinary deception. If the National Assembly accepts this position by Minister Omerzel as some authentic explanation of the individual provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, it could be quickly supported and thus justifiably addressed the suspicion of corruption by all well-known champions of the two largest political parties. I am sure that they too, as Minister Omerzel states in his reply, are convinced that they have fully fulfilled their marriage obligation. It is also written in the Minister's reply that, in the case of Dars, it is not a matter of state budget resources. It's just a simple ruse. Dars is wholly owned by the State and financed by the payment of tolls. The company for motorways is therefore directly and indirectly financed from the State budget. For all public sector vehicles the toll is paid from the state budget and in the second part is financed from the funds of natural persons, citizens, businesses, tourism, transit. I don't think Dars had to take care of financing the construction of the roads himself, either. Who rented highway credits? Who gave the guarantees? Dear Minister, in one part of your response to interpretation, you refer to ignorance of the law. On the next page you go to hairdressing with legal aspects of Dars ownership. In the Slovenian People's Party, we rightly ask whether, Minister, this idea of yours is as naive as it seems, you believe or are so highly underestimating the entire Slovenian public. At the same time, you would be reminded once again by the distinguished minister, regardless of Dars' status and violations of the rules. You yourself stated at the hearing last April 2nd that your company will no longer work for Dars, only to the extent and until the end of the current contract. You know, and you also admit that you have violated this commitment, and this is enough evidence for me that your high-sounding words about high personal principles are merely a skillful rhetoric of a man who has nothing to regret – not people, not lies. While your high personal principles have been questioned by the media before you took office, your employment in Upper Ultra and your management in one of the related companies was warned just before the ministerial function took place. Today we can see that the warnings were not just there in one day. And today, more than a bad year ago, we ask ourselves what kind of moves some have led the director and owner of such a successful private enterprise, the director of another successful company in Croatia, a man with so many abilities and so many good incomes, to decide on such a difficult job as a minister with relatively low wages. Minister Omerzel seems to have been the second minister of this government to understand the role of minister as an entrepreneurial challenge and only as an opportunity to privatise state money. If that were not the case, I would not hesitate to accept my duties in every way, but would honorably admit my mistakes and give up the ministry and, as his predecessor has done, would step down and thus burden the government's functioning. Dear Minister, the disclosure of all these affairs has greatly burdened you, your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so your credibility, both in front of the public and in the government, is very much questioned. You have problems in all areas, as shown by the series of staff exchanges, and from the Director of the Agency for Security to the types of exchanges of directors of the Directorates until the last shift of the Director of the Directorate for Roads. If you have problems with the operation of your department, you can see from a number of problems, from the approach to solving TES to the problems of auto school to coalition commitments that you have not fulfilled. We don't know that I would, but now I'm going to remind you of them, as well as your colleagues from the ministerial team and your boss, the current Prime Minister. For the area of infrastructure and space, your agreement on government cooperation on pages 11 and 12 states this: "In six months we will prepare improvements to spatial legislation that will simplify and significantly reduce placement procedures. Within four months, we will prepare and sign concession contracts and design ideas for hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava. Within three months, we will change the system of contributions to provide support, electricity production from renewable energy sources to relieve the Slovenian industry by reducing electricity prices by 10%." Your problems with the management of the station also show up at a purely operational level. For the maintenance and rehabilitation of roads, you have lost somewhere the necessary means to rebuild roads and repair bridges and overpasses. At the time of the adoption of the budget rebalancing, you were reminded of this by a number of experts. Then you made sure that the money was enough and that the traffic would run smoothly. Now after three months, we are witnessing severe traffic restrictions resulting from the breakdown of public roads and roads, Minister Omerzel, are here because of people and the economy. There is no excuse for not taking action when the budget is adopted. However, it is clear from your answers to the questions of the Member States that you are partly transferring responsibility to your predecessors, and partly to a government that obviously does not understand you and does not listen. As you said two days ago in the National Assembly on the necessary means for the rehabilitation of bridges, I now quote: "I ask you to understand that until I have the support of my colleagues from the Government, with which proposal to continue to go before the National Assembly, it is, of course, unproductive and unconstructive to go forward with these proposals." How can we interpret this as if you obviously have no support in your own government, and this is, in our opinion, a logical consequence of the loss of your credibility. In this case, however, you have also contributed greatly to the fact that we can no longer trust you in the National Assembly. Two days ago, you said here that you had only been informed of the poor state of state bridges and overpasses last December. Interesting. In October, all Members and Members attending the Committee on Infrastructure meetings on the budget received at the table extensive material from the Directorate for Roads in September 2013, addressed to you, Minister-designate. This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure incurred by the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the And in this material is also a complete description of the state of these bridge facilities, their decomposition and the necessary traffic restrictions if there is no money for recovery. Dear Minister, I do not believe that you do not know this material and that you did not receive it in September 2013. I just can't believe it. And to conclude. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support Minister Omerzel's interpellation mainly because of his behaviour, his approach to solving the problem, and not least from his response to the interpretation, it is clear that the Minister does not distinguish between public and private interest, that he does not respect the legislation, that his decisions are burdened by signs of corruption and that he does not control the difficult topic of the director. It is clear from the Minister's conduct that his credibility is questionable and that his view has been reduced to such an extent that he is no longer able to perform the functions of Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The DeSUS Group will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. According to our assessment, the applicant’s findings are unfounded or not addressed to the right person. Most of the perceptions from the interpretation relate to matters that have taken place under the ministry of another minister, which, interestingly, comes from a number of interpolation proponents. However, it would be pointless to expect the former minister to take responsibility for his actions during the ministry, but he is trying to place his responsibility on foreign shoulders. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to another matter that has taken place in the past when Minister Erjavec, precisely because of the conduct of his predecessor, resigned from his post as Minister of Environment and Space. At that time, Minister Erjavec estimated that, as Minister, he had an objective responsibility for the unregulated area of waste management caused by his predecessors. In doing so, Minister Erjavec has demonstrated high moral principles and has self-initiatedly deviated from the sins committed by others in the past. So we also had a case when the former Minister did not accept his responsibilities as he should. In an attempt to assume responsibility for our successor, we also witnessed last Friday when we discussed the project TES 6 at an extraordinary meeting. The proposal for Friday's extraordinary meeting sought to take over the responsibility of Minister Omerzel to increase investment in the construction of the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj, simply overlooking the fact that he was a signatory to the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, where the value of the investment in TEŠ 6 was estimated at EUR 660 million, and who was a signatory to the Alstom Treaty in 2008, amounting to EUR 1.1 billion. It is probably not necessary to point out that under both documents, Mr Omerzel was not signed, but rather a then Minister, who is among the co-signers of today's interpolation. In addition, there is no evidence of a violation of the provisions of the Public Servants Act due to the non-competition of the competition procedure for the post of Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, since the person who still performs the duties of Director has been authorized by the former Minister, who, by the way, is also among the cosigners of today's interpretation. Today, the Minister has also explained matters in detail. We can therefore reason that the same person estimates that she has committed a violation of the law herself. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that a suitable person has been authorized to perform the functions of the Director of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, who has the expertise and knowledge of the details of his work. That's why we can't blame this move on the previous minister. By his decision, he made sure that work for the Slovenian real estate market on the Geodetic Board of the Republic of Slovenia was carried out in a continuous and uninterrupted manner, which could result in the appointment of a new director. That is why we estimate that Minister Omerzel did the right thing when he did not revoke the decision of the former Minister. In DeSUS, however, we regret that Minister Omerzel did not do the same in the event of the resignation of the Director of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, who is a recognised expert in his field. Since Minister Omerzel accepted his resignation, we have lost important capacity in the area of construction and maintenance of Slovenian roads. One of the eyewitnesses to Minister Omerzel is that he was misleading the public about the situation at the auto schools. In the DeSUS Group, we ask how the Minister should know things that are more than three years old and which he was only informed about at the end of 2013. However, when the Minister was aware of a problem that his predecessor had failed to familiarize him on the occasion of his handover, as it was clearly an irrelevant topic for him, Minister Omerzel acted decisively and effectively. Even in the event that the taxpayers are injured in the selection of the tenderer in the process of awarding a contract for the production and supply of registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers, if a higher bidder has been chosen, we cannot agree with the applicant in the DeSUS Group. The statement would be justified in the event that the tender would be submitted to a provider offering the same quality of services and at the same time have fulfilled the substantive conditions, the difference would only be in price. However, this was not the case because the cheaper bidder did not meet the substantive requirements. Following a complaint from an unelected tenderer, the State Audit Commission confirmed to the Minister that it had acted lawfully. The price itself, according to our assessment, is appropriate, as compared to some other European countries it is one of the lowest. The next observation in the interpretation is that the Minister violated Article 35, paragraph 5, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, since within one month of his appointment at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, he did not provide data on the ownership of the company. What surprises us in the DeSUS Group is the fact that such an observation comes from the type of party whose president, despite the fact that an excessive official and well knows the provisions of the so-called anti-corruption law, has silenced the Anti-Corruption Commission that its assets have increased by EUR 210 000. I would also like to remind you here today that the Minister has explained this matter in detail before this stage. And the Minister did not even deny the above, but we can say, of course, that the excuse of ignorance of law is not appropriate and therefore those who are acting contrary to this law are not excused. Finally, it is clear that the public is being misled with regard to the conclusion of new transactions or the provision of services after the acquisition of the ministerial office for Dars through the company Lastinski. In the DeSUS Group, we heard the Minister's arguments, which were very convincing. The fact that the Minister is telling the truth has convinced us the most of all that his company has given up on a fugitive and profitable business. As I have already announced in the introduction, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will vote against the interpretation of Minister Omerzel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister Sam Omerzel, Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is logical that the Slovenian public, the taxpayers do not like that today we will probably talk about the interpretation of Minister Sam Omerzel for 15 hours. The public tells us: "Take good laws for the development of Slovenia. Slovenia is sinking." Yes, we in the New Slovenia Group agree on this and we are relative winners in terms of our size, relative to the number of laws passed. Of course, it makes sense how this coalition works: all laws for throws. It will be interesting what will be the debate and decision on the additionality of the real estate tax law that has been tabled. Mr Minister, in a way, to begin with, I truly feel for you, because after the first quarter of your technically well-prepared defense, you have all been abandoned. First the President of the government, then the fellow ministers, you've still got your closest associate. I feel for you, but that's the way it is. I don't know what they're thinking, but it's their free will. On the other hand, the President, when he comes to defend you, slaps the opposition MPs, counts them as being, and probably in her eyes indeed, second-rate citizens of this country. In your defense, as well as the President of the Government, you turn to the history of what someone before you has done, who has signed something, who has named someone. Of course, your predecessors probably did something. Unlike this coalition, which does nothing, while Slovenia is sinking. We are not ready to draw on European funds, by telling me colleagues from other European countries that they have already forgotten the documents necessary to draw on European funds, development documents such as a partnership agreement, such as a smart specialisation, not to mention an alliance for young people, where not much is actually happening. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we have already proposed to Minister Omerzel when the interpretation is submitted that he should decide whether he will be an entrepreneur who will also cooperate with the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, d. d., or whether the Minister will comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We must not forget, dear colleague and colleague, that Mr Sam Omerzel, as a minister, as a member of the Government, is also a member of the Dars d. d., which is, as we know, 100 per cent owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Some of us, when we received a mandate here on 21 December 2011, closed our companies in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We've closed down our companies. Neither my family members, nor my brother, am I glad that you have a good relationship with your brother, even I, thank God, cannot cooperate with the National Assembly further, nor with my congregation, because I am a member of the congregation. The Minister may, however, cooperate with the state-owned company. The responses of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel are very unusual, partly cynical and absurd. In view of the latest disclosures, it is obvious that the Minister has also decided that he wants to continue to be both entrepreneurs and ministers, which, according to our understanding of corruption and clienteleism, is unacceptable. The Minister has rejected our accusations with nothing, and he admits, in many ways, that he cannot contradict them, and is looking for other arguments to justify his misbehaviour. Mr Minister, it is your answers that have convinced us even more of the merits of the interpretation and the necessity of your resignation. We personally do not wish you any harm, Mr Minister, but the Slovenian public, we both know what he has to say about politicians. The MP and the minister must be clean, incorruptible, without clienteleism, working for the common good with capital letters, for the common good. More. With his replies, the Minister revealed the unacceptable notion of his position. How can a minister, who runs a ministry, supervises an economic company that owns 100 per cent of the Republic of Slovenia and who, in addition to its basic activity for several million euro a year, does business on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, for which he also receives compensation, continue to operate with the same company through his company. Such a mix of policies and economies is totally contrary to our understanding of the integrity of political officials, the principle of competition in public procurement and the democratic and public financial responsibilities of the minister. Lastinski's business with Dars only reflects the practice of non-hygienic business in accordance with agreed principles, where the allocation of business is primarily a reflection of the political power and patronage of influential circles combining political and economic power, beyond all possibilities of democratic control and the protection of the free market with fair competition. And if we're talking about non-hygienic business, we're talking dirty business, and it's not good for this society, for this country. Mr Minister, when you introduced yourself to the Members, you even promised not to make new contracts with state-owned companies. Unfortunately, you didn't keep these promises because you were also negotiating a new contract with the state company Dars after that. Unfortunately, we can say that you have further deceived the public and tried to hide your business rather than face the consequences and act responsibly. Trust, Mr Minister, is a key value in business and even more in politics. Trust. I'm afraid we can no longer trust you because of your actions. It is not that you are aware that you are an entrepreneur, but that you do not adhere to the basic rules of responsible public office and restrictions on the business of state-owned enterprises, which dictates minimum responsibility for voters and the prevention of corruption. Mr. Secretary, you said very little about black construction. Maybe I'll have a few sentences. On November 5, 2013, you know, not personally, but you are responsible, so I say you destroyed the house in Bohinj Prekmurc Dark Kuzmić, who lived in this house in Bohinj and invested in it for 30 years. Among other things, he has hosted many politicians at this time, and above all, I am not interested in which political province. There we could also read the banner with the following content: Barabbas legalize castles, honest demolition homes. Wake up, Slovenia. And then a few days later, or more precisely on November 21st, the Government adopts a supplement to the construction law, which somehow records a moratorium on the further demolition of black buildings. The approach itself is brutal, Mr Minister, when this house of this citizen of the Republic of Slovenia collapsed. How many cops did it look like it actually turned out to be the biggest criminal in the world? If you hadn't written Darko Kuzmič, but otherwise, I'm pretty sure this building or the demolition of this house wouldn't have happened. That's what we're sure of, 90 of us, isn't it, colleagues and colleagues? I wonder who has an interest in obtaining a plot where Darka Kuzmić's house, which I have noticed, is accompanied by us from the balcony. Who's interested in this plot? We'll probably see who this guy was soon with his name and name on it. The citizens of this country must not be treated so brutally. One more thing, Mr. Secretary and the entire government. The Infrastructure Committee, led by its respected colleague Sam Bevk, together – the coalition and the opposition – committed to the Government's decision to provide at least EUR 50 million at the annual level for the rehabilitation and maintenance of state roads when considering the budgetary documents for 2014 and 2015. We didn't even get an answer from the government. A few days ago, the Director of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, Mr. Gregor Ficko, a good engineer, a good manager, now resigned or advised him to go, because he may have said too much on television screens, what the state of the roads is in the country. Maybe later. Mr Just Omerzel, we suggest you step down on your own, and the debate will be cut short. Because what you do is wrong because you set a bad example for the entire Slovenian society. Because of such and other suspicious transactions and the indifferent rejection of all perceptions, without giving any arguments other than misappropriation, politicians have such low confidence in the public opinion. And then we're all the same. Listen to your news, Mr. Omerzel. The coalition's messages that the gray economy, corruption and clientism will end are false, give no hope. That's not true. The coalition works second when it responds to or writes new coalition agreements. The coalition will support you, as it was heard, someone even said, "Let's give Omerzel another chance!" Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, what is this opportunity? A new contract with Dars? What is this opportunity? This phrase, flosculo, we have once heard — from the first in the country, on a relationship to the then minister, who also loved money very much. Members of the coalition will certainly protect you, as everyone is forced to do so more or less. Either way, the government is too incomplete now, and we have almost or exactly 70 days without an economy minister. We know that the reasoned views and arguments of the opposition or New Slovenia and SDS, of course, as well as of the Slovenian People's Party, will not be heard by you or your government. This is a free decision of coalition colleagues and colleagues, which has consequences, as you are actually attaching, in fact, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, to the apparently unacceptable conduct of the Minister interviewed. But let the entire Slovenian public know that we have not all put together and will not insist on doing so. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that from tomorrow on the Minister could only be an entrepreneur, no longer a minister, so we will vote. I wish Mr Sam Omerzel, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, many entrepreneurial successes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today, I will deal with the third interpolation within the mandate of this government, an interpretation against the minister, submitted by a qualified group of Members. Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that at least 10 Members may initiate interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. If, after the discussion on the interpretation, the majority of Members express their distrust to the government or to the individual minister, the State Assembly shall dismiss the government or ministers. Interpellation is largely a powerful tool for the opposition to vote in Parliament to suspend either the government or the minister. Interpellation also makes it easier for the opposition to check the strength of support for the government and the minister in Parliament and thus the strength of the ruling coalition. Interpellation against Mr Sam Omerzel's Minister of Infrastructure and Space is therefore a well-thought-out political manoeuvre of the opposition with the aim of weakening the strength of the government coalition and thereby increasing the internal political crisis or even triggering the government crisis. The following shows the fact that it is already the third interpolation within less than a year of the operation of this government and that it is already another interpolation filed against one of the ministers of one of the coalition partners – the National List, which the former ruling party accuses of breaking up the previous government coalition. Assembling political points with indications that, when we go into detail into the mere content of the interpretation, they would not be difficult to place primarily on the shoulders of the predecessor of Omerzel, in fact, the school case of political manipulation from us is a well-known political pattern of the largest opposition party. This party, although in public after the intervention has been made, has consistently argued that it will prove all the evidence from the interpretation by means of documents and is already accusing the coalition partners of not being relevant to the content and the evidence against the minister. At the same time, it recognises and refers or threatens to interpellate certain other ministers where the situation is similar to that of the minister concerned. It therefore acknowledges that its main purpose is to trigger a government crisis and perhaps a possible collapse of the government. The opposition is well-known for its provisions of the Government Act, which provides that the Government is considered to have taken office if more than two thirds of the ministers are appointed. Therefore, if the intervention against the Minister of Infrastructure and Space had been successful, the opposition would have been already on the three quarters of its planned path to triggering the political and at the same time the government crisis. And that, of course, would be followed again by a new interpolation. It is true that the ruling coalition wants to continue its work, for it is in those days that it is coordinating or concluding a new coalition contract for the remainder of its term of office, which does not mean that it wants to remain at any cost, even at the expense of irregularities or even illegality in the work of individual ministers or government members. The Prime Minister has made it more than clear that there will be no more examinations for members of the Government. The minister thus got another chance to continue his route. It goes on to say that he does his work properly and without any shadow of doubt, or that he uses his function for personal interests as well. A member of the Government of Positive Slovenia, who has resigned from his post as Minister, has set very high standards as regards conflicts of interest and creating the appearance that personal circumstances influence his or her proper performance as Minister. However, it must be acknowledged that all situations are not comparable. Each case must be examined separately and all the necessary and required answers must be obtained before the decision is taken. Even in Positive Slovenia and Minister Omerzel, after the intervention, we did not necessarily support them without familiarising ourselves with the contents of the interpretation and the Minister's response to them. As you know, we had a conversation with the minister only after he was briefed by both the Government and the National Assembly. On the basis of clear and substantial arguments by Minister Omerzel, the Group of Positive Slovenia assessed that it undoubtedly has the political support of our party and Members. As has also been heard from other coalition partners, the coalition supports the Minister for the facts and his response to the interpolation and not just because of the existence of the coalition. More. Interpellation tells much more about the proposer than it does about the Minister of Interpellation. In particular, the SDS's proposal for this interpretation has proved to be a party to the double criteria, which is without difficulty arousing on the opinion of the institutions, as is the case with their members, and again, it is easy to refer to them when it wants to remove the disturbing political element of the government of Alenka Bratušek. That is why we do not expect much in this Chamber today. Today in this Chamber we will witness a skilled political overreaction. The content of the arguments, opinions and evidence will certainly not be abundant. Today we will talk here about the Minister's company Lastinski, but we will not say anything about the many business dealings of some prominent members of the previous government and associated persons with state-owned companies. Today, we will talk about the Minister's procedural errors, his not-named new director Gurs, and we will not talk about how the previous government, when changing power, in particular in the last few minutes, has rushed with the recruitment of its politically verified personnel. She did such a maneuver on Gurs, but failed. Today we will talk about falsifying driving examinations as a national disgrace. We will not say anything about the fact that this situation has been dragging since 2009, that the previous government headed by the Transport Safety Agency has appointed a person on the basis of obvious party and related links. Today we will rewind the invitation to tender for car plates, although in the opinion of the State Audit Commission there is nothing wrong with them, but because in the SDS they estimate that this deal is simply too expensive, even though during the time of their ministers the same car plates were produced by the same operators for the same price or perhaps even greater value, and no one was doing it at the time, and there was nothing wrong with it. That this invitation was prepared during the time of the previous minister, and it does not surprise us at all. Today, we will also talk about TES 6, a falsely expensive investment that has plunged to 1.4 billion euros even in agreement with politics. This was decided and decided by ministers, supervisors, heads of administrations and others. Today, when the matter has come too far, it is up to Minister Omerzel to decide. And instead of putting the responsible people on the ashes, you say with your finger to the government's conclusions and their hands. Let me paraphrase the famous Shakespeare quote: Much Ado About Nothing. Or, to say the least, a lot of noise for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Zvonko Cernač has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the minister, all others present! Perhaps, first of all, one correction, one incoherence, that we should not inadvertently accuse Mr Igor Maher when you speak of Mr Sam Omerzel's predecessor. Mr. Igor Maher was his predecessor, and he was proven to be innocent. So much for the apology of the former Minister or predecessor of Mr Sam Omerzel. We are also with other co-signers in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors 11. 12. 2013 tabled an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister of Infrastructure and of Mr Sam Omerzel's premises, in which we propose that the State Assembly, after a final discussion on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, decide on its discharge from the role of Minister responsible for infrastructure and space. Of course, the minister did not fail his habit. As it has worked so far, it has also worked today in response to interpolation. It has been operating approximately the same pattern since he was appointed Minister. He's not guilty of anything, he's not responsible for anything. He was not aware of matters that were politically sensitive. If I have to assume objective responsibility, this burden goes to the co-workers who have resigned or who have been withdrawn, if I cannot do so, others are responsible for his problems, his favorite in this case are former ministers and the former government, and I do not know why he should release one of the ministers from the quota of the Civil Gazette and, on the other hand, he would gladly take credit for the things that are the result of past decisions and are successfully completed. Such a sample has also been used today, which is why it must be said about the pirates he has afforded at the conclusion of the response to interpolation, that each minister is expected to continue his work, to continue the projects he has started, to upgrade this work, not only within the framework presented today by Minister Omerzel, where, as one of the initiators has already said, in a strong delay, there is a violation of the clause of the coalition agreement you have signed, and that this legislation will be recast within six months. This deadline is over. Nor did the Minister mention a number of other areas which are his jurisdiction, for which he is also responsible. One of the important areas is housing policy, where a concrete programme should be drawn up at this time and in these circumstances with regard to the resolution of housing problems mainly for young people on the one hand and for other residential dwellings, which have mainly moved to a bad bank. One of the areas not mentioned is also the cohesion policy area where Slovenia’s 2014-2020 programme has recently been assessed as the worst by European institutions, which means that it will not be possible to draw from the new perspective this year, and it is also questionable to draw in the first half of next year. So much for that. A few words must also be said about the integrity of the Minister. When we talk about the integrity of the Minister, which is necessary for the responsible exercise of his office, it is not only the integrity of the Minister after his appointment, although Minister Omerzel has also lost that integrity at the time of his ministry in our opinion. The entry integrity, the integrity with which the Minister enters this function, is also important. On behalf of the proposers, colleague Vizjak made clear the details and documents presented for this speaker clearly why, due to past business with Darsa, the Minister had no integrity or integrity at the time of his appointment, the integrity required for the performance of the minister's duties. We've put this interpellation on six main readings. We report to the Minister a violation of Article 35, paragraph 5, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which was violated by the Minister because within one month of the appointment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, he did not provide data on the company Lastinski, whose exclusive owner he is. Within the time limit laid down by the law, he did not provide the necessary information regarding the name of the undertaking, the parent number, the seat and so on, and the law was also violated by failing to ensure that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as the body in which the Minister performs the function, would forward within 15 days to the Anti-Corruption Commission a list of entities with which the Minister is associated or subject to operating restrictions. Now the minister does not deny it, insists on it, says, "Yes, I have sent a report on my assets to the Anti-Corruption Commission, but in this part I have not fulfilled my obligations, I have not been paying attention to it, I did not know that I have to do it." If it were a business dealing with an activity that is not connected in any way with the ministry that runs it, let's say if it was dealing with hairdressing or selling apples and pears, then maybe this thing wouldn't even be so problematic, and it wouldn't have to be exposed, but everyone's bleeding under the skin, he forgot something, and it's not possible to make a big deal out of it, but it's a company that deals with Dars, which the Minister is responsible and responsible for. It is a company that has republished the contract during the time Minister Omerzel took office, almost signed the contract with Lastinski. So it's not about any company, so, in this light, this statement by the minister that it's about a less important bureaucratic slip-up is not in place. This would be the case if it were a company that is not in any relationship with the State or with state-owned companies. Previously, it was said that the government is in the function of the Assembly of this company, or Soda. It was also said earlier that when a representative of this Minister's company negotiated at Dars, he negotiated with those for whom the Minister was responsible and responsible and that they negotiated by 0.6% lower price. Of course, it's a good thing they did. It's not a hygienic thing. The Minister should have decided at that time before the matter came to the public, as he had announced at the hearing, whether he would be involved in private affairs related to the State or would be Minister. He didn't do it. He did so only after things became public. In this light, this violation of this law on integrity and the prevention of corruption takes on a different meaning and a different weight. We're probably all aware of that. In the second point, we report to the Minister the damage suffered by the taxpayers by the Minister in choosing the tenderer in the open procurement procedure – the production and delivery of registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers, and the selection of the tenderer whose offer was once again higher than the competitive offer. In the coming years, taxpayers will pay twice as much car plates as would be necessary for this choice. On the table was the offer of a selected KIG provider of EUR 12 million 951 000 753.70 and a competitive offer of a world-renowned producer who supplies car plates on virtually all continents of EUR 6 million 539 thousand 60 and 50 hundred, both without VAT. And she was expelled as irregular, inappropriate, and thus imperfect. This led to a choice of offer, which is even more expensive. It has already been said that this was not just an offer made by someone who would have given a dumped price and who would not have been able to produce these plates at such a price. It is a company that markets license plates all over Europe, Russia, India, China, Australia, North and South America, virtually all over the world, and almost entirely with license plates is covered by their domestic market, that is Germany. Therefore, the German company excluded the Minister of Infrastructure and Space because, for example, part of their warehouses did not have adequate protection because it was not clear by what standard their colors were tested and so on. It's very well-provoked reasons, I must say. And because, according to the Ministry, it's an unusually low offer. According to what I said at the outset, I am responsible for this, which I started with this order before Mr Minister came to the Ministry. An order, estimated at 16.4 million euros, was published and the former minister is therefore responsible. Please! There were two offers on the table that needed to be decided. However, Minister Omerzel justifies the decision that the procedure could not be terminated and repeated. This argument is also further substantiated by comparisons of the price of car plates in other countries and so on. It states that, in order to reject all tenders, it should have objective and valid reasons, and it did not find them, and that such a repetition of this contract would, in its view, be arbitrary and illegal. And, of course, it was also confirmed in the audit process because an unchosen tenderer complained. Normally, formal confirmation followed the formal rules of the game. We are not talking about the need to proceed on the basis of this procedure, but in such a case, when there has been such a major breakthrough and when there has been a possibility of lowering the price, this should be done. Therefore, twice the price of the product for the Minister was not sufficient reason to reject such an offer and to repeat the contract. By the way, when I was a minister myself and the previous Darsa administration did not follow what their commitment was, in recent years, not to remove disturbing customs, we published an order to remove one of these. We have received offers, I think in the range of 500 000 Euros to 800 000 Euros without VAT. And, of course, that's the order we stopped. Stop. That's why I was criminally charged by unsigned co-workers of the Ministry who, of course, weren't. And just recently, in January, after one and a half years, I got, look out, from the specialized state prosecutor's office, who was dealing with this procedure to get this appeal dropped because I acted economically and because later this order was executed at a substantially lower price. So much for legality, so much for not being able to. When I was weak for two months in the role of Minister of Justice and Public Administration, I stopped a similar order in the field of software, where some tenderer was chosen quickly, and the numbers were significantly smaller. I think it was the rank of two orders, each about 700,000 euros in size. When this order was repeated, this order also all of a sudden resulted in lower prices of about 10%. In Slovenia, we have been listening to debates and mantras for some time now that we are dealing with systemic corruption in the field of public procurement. Who is the loudest in this debate? The political group of the National List, which also belongs to Minister Samo Omerzel, is the National List of Gregor Virant, whose member, on the day before his appointment as Minister, has also become Mr Samo Omerzel. And not long ago, we were hearing apprehension about how it is possible for some services to be paid more than necessary, even twice or three times as much. Are they not, excuse me, car plates exactly like this? And how unhygienic it is to manipulate the public harshly when the minister wants me to take responsibility for putting an order in the press. What does that have to do with anything? Excuse me, there were two offers on the table, and I told you on two occasions earlier how I would have acted in such a case. I'd stop the procedure and repeat it if it was in his skin. By the way, in response to the interpretation, the minister himself acknowledges, quote, "as the principal of the contracting authority, I am aware that the tenderer whose offer has been eliminated is the world-renowned producer of license plates, and I have no doubt that he would not know or be able to produce the relevant license plates". He himself acknowledges that this should be done if he acted in the spirit of what is being proclaimed publicly from his mouth and from the mouth of his political group. The Ministry had a 50% lower offer at its disposal, which it knew was real and feasible, which was based on the Minister's claims, and rejected. If the minister did as he spoke in public about the prices of future projects to be halved, he would, of course, no longer be with him, but the future minister, who would be burdened with these promises and higher prices, would probably be bent over him to cheat with numbers. Therefore, if the Minister had acted responsibly in these tables, he would have rejected all offers and repeated the invitation to tender. And there's something else to say. Also with regard to these deceptions, lies, manipulations that we have witnessed, not just today, we have also been to them in the past days, weeks and months, the interpretation states that on 18 November, the Minister, in response to my question, was not telling the truth that he was lying, after his homework, when he claimed that a concrete operator had not yet been selected in relation to the car plates. I'm sorry. I'm Therefore, in its reply to the interpolation, it explains that the decision on choice, which bears the date of 31 July, was signed on 16 August in its absence by the Secretary of State, acting under his authority. But look what he said at the time in response to question 18 of the letter. This reply, which he gave in the interpolation, does not explain anything and does not reduce the weight of his words with regard to the fact that he had not yet declared that a specific contractor had been selected. At that time, he said he knew that the invitation to tender was outside, he knew that the two contracts were also holding the numbers of both offers, and he concluded, and I quote: "How much is the correct offer, which has not yet been decided and has not yet been verified, at least on my part this decision has not yet been signed, unless someone has signed it, which is not within the Ministry, which I strongly doubt." End of quote. 18/11 last year. Here, in response to the interpretation, he says that Mr Bojan Babič, State Secretary, has signed this under his authority. That's how these statements are collected. And what happens when such statements begin to gather? This raises doubts about the credibility of the Minister's words and, as a result, doubts about the credibility of his conduct, since if only words remained, that is the least of the problems. Similar misleading statements are being heard about the project I have already mentioned as regards the second track. Similarly, we listened to summers on electronic tolls, read Mr Omerzel's statement, where he said that the system would be built by Kapsch for 10 million euros and that a concrete solution would be presented to the public by the end of summer 2013. I didn't see it, maybe I missed it, but I don't think it was presented to the public by the end of summer 2013. Here we have a concrete procedure, a specific order, an order, where, in a practical case, as I have done at Log's toll station myself, we can demonstrate the weight of the words spoken in public about the need to stop systemic corruption, prevent irritation of investments and achieve more rational implementation. The third point is to ignore the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the project of construction of the 6th block of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj and to allow further irritation of the investment. Why are we talking about allowing further investment to be auctioned? Because of the Minister's response to this issue. After being informed by the public in May that it is highly likely that the TES will not be completed within the expected financial and time limits, the Minister said at the meeting of the Committee on 31 May first [[Now, I'm not going to quote, but I'm going to say by content exactly]] "Price 1.3 is what we have to achieve." And that was the right and responsible statement of the Minister. A little later, about two or three weeks later, this statement turned into another statement: "This price is unrealistic, the deadlines are unrealistic, all those who decided to do so have been misled, the price is at least 100 million euros higher." Even if this is true, and it will eventually prove to be true, such a statement should not have been, because it was a brilliance to all those who were just waiting for something like this and who were also waiting in the past for someone to recognize the ever-increasing demands on this project because it was, and we all agree, very poorly guided. But interestingly, look, the team that was responsible for the worst management of this project in the period until 2010, part of this team is now running this investment again, the bulk of it. At the head of TES is the man who was part of the team that led the investment at the time, and this does not bother the minister. Not to mention, of course, Velenje Coal, where there is an eternal director who is likely to be there until retirement, who says he cannot achieve what he signed twice in 2009 and 2012, i.e. the price of 2.25 euros per gigajoul coal, and now forces a higher price, given that it is an opportunity. Of course there is an opportunity, an opportunity was given at the moment when the minister publicly declared: "Yes, at least 100 million will be more expensive." A hundred million, look, not one euro or one million! As a result, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was convened on 16 July, and some conclusions were adopted which essentially followed what was earlier at the letter meeting, on 15 July, by the Government in which Mr Omerzel sits. It is also evident in the interpretation that these conclusions are not realized, at least not essential. And that's the obvious. One of the important conclusions was to clear up the value of this investment by 30.11. He didn't! On Friday we had an extraordinary meeting and listened again to some figures that were not based on reliable data. In response to the interpellation, the minister himself admits it. He says that unless we have relevant input data, we cannot talk about the final number. Why, then, beguile about which number is right and who is involved in this service? Probably not those who want this investment to be as low as possible, and probably not those who seek to be concluded within the time limits set. No, no, no. And once again, the Floscul minister, the position is responsible, you are responsible – the current opposition you were in the government at the time, because the then government in which he sat, by the way, also the Minister of the National Gazette of Šuštaršič, who was responsible for the guarantee law, the Guarantee Act is the law for which the Ministry of Finance is responsible, because you proposed to confirm the guarantee under these conditions. Yeah, what was I supposed to do? Should we suggest that it be confirmed under a billion 500 or something? On the table we had a confirmed investment programme by TES, the TES Supervisory Board, the HSE Supervisory Board, signed statements by all those responsible that I am not talking about the other documentation received by the Finance Committee, which was responsible for dealing with this guarantee law at the time and on the basis of which the government said not to confirm, but said the former government, the other Janša government, decide, on the table you have all the documentation, all the numbers, all the parameters of this investment, the risk is great – as has been said – but take the responsible decision. And the National Assembly, we said on Friday, took this decision with 29 votes in favour and 20 against. Only 6 votes were cast by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and 7 Social Democrats in the case, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group considers 26 members and the Social Democrats to be 10. So as a Member, I can probably afford a slightly freer interpretation of the facts, and perhaps some explanation might be a little more likeable or less likeable. But the minister has to keep an eye on these things. And here this relationship that he showed in arguing this interpolation shows that somehow he doesn't understand the position he's in. That he is no longer in business shoes, although he still is, because he owns this company that deals with Darsa, but is primarily in the shoes of a minister responsible and responsible for infrastructure and space, and as such he must also act responsibly. And one part of responsible conduct is also responsible statements and responsible conduct in cases where a statement or conduct has to be left unharmed. So, apart from the absence of an investment programme, there is no report which has been commissioned to be prepared by the Ministry together with the Office of the Defence, this report is missing, and there is no revision of this project. We do not have anything like this, so the interpretation in this part, in our view, is fully justified. It is also interesting that certain things began to happen rapidly after 11. 12. Not only in this obvious but also in others. So after we put this interpellation into the National Assembly. The fourth point, I think, is a violation of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws issued on its basis, which we read out to the Minister, who has blamed the Minister for not initiating a competition procedure for more than 8 months for the Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and has allowed the Authority to run under the authority of the President for more than 6 months. And he's still in charge today, and Gurs still doesn't have a CEO, and he's still in violation of this law today. And again, an interesting argument. Not at least the same as she was at that point, if she is, she is, but I should have reported it, I was inconsistent here, I wasn't careful, otherwise nothing bad happened, this administration is still running and so on. But the argument is, on February 28th, Minister Chernač signed with this gentleman the authority to lead the Gurs. That's an argument! Why did this happen and the minister didn't say it? The day after that speech, Mrs Alenka Bratusek announced, I do not know what I would call it, a human tsunami or a political illustration or, if you like, one of the most racist statements I have ever heard in this House, that all those who are not true political colours, if I am slightly paraphrasing, would, of course, be dismissed, Mr Klemenčič, who was slightly earlier appointed as Acting Director of Gurs, because he did not want to go to political games. And now, as then's minister, I'm supposed to push someone else into this mess so that the government of Alenka Bratušek will suspend him in three weeks. I think he would have acted irresponsibly towards the institution, to this man, and especially to himself, because through this he would have solved his responsibility or responsibility for what I did. And it was perfectly normal for me to have, in such a situation, three weeks before the establishment of the new government, the powers of the former Prime Minister and allow that body to function normally in the composition, but this in no way binds the responsibility of the current minister, completely in nothing. His responsibility is even greater because he knew it. The law clearly says, and in response to the interpretation, he says he knows paragraph 9, I think he is Article 83 of this law. "I know him, I know what it says." It states that it is necessary to appoint v. d. for a maximum of six months and to initiate a competitive procedure in the meantime. When was this competitive procedure initiated? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 12th last year. Exactly a week after the interpolation was submitted. Even here the ministers did not convince us, but left one such, I would say, a strange seal on the perception of responsibility, because they did what was said at the beginning, where they fit them, they were able to take credit for some of the solutions, where they did not match, but everyone else was responsible. The last point, or the last justification, refers to the Middle Ages, and I forgot to say what some of you said at Gurs. [[…]] We don't report to the minister that he signed the warrant. You haven't read it anywhere, but we're telling him he hasn't done what the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws tell him. Fifth point, misappropriation of the public with regard to the state of the school. We could probably talk about this all the time, but since it's limited, just allow it for a little while. Indeed, he should be a minister of blindness and deaf, and should not read any documents available to him at the Ministry, so that he does not know at least about the state of the school and what is happening in these schools. Of course not. The Minister's been keeping track of this area. Finally, he also made sure that the Council of this agency, which was appointed by the Janšev government, and the V.D. Director, who began to work in this order. Of course, it is perfectly clear that he was very well aware of the situation, otherwise he would not have done all this. In our interpretation, we wrote a little bit more about how this information happened. There is documentation on this, there are public statements by those responsible at the time. On 8 November last year, the Minister made a public statement. However, the former acting director of the Agency for Transport Safety publicly stated that on 24 April 2013 he had personally handed over the final report of the Commission on Professional Oversight carried out by the Minister on the work of the Agency for Transport Safety, and had also pointed out to him that there had been serious criminal offences in schools, as well as a problem report by the criminal police regarding the implementation of the programmes of the school and additional safe driving programmes. In response, the Minister denied the statement. He says that Mr Pojbič was at his meeting in April and that he did not mention that there was a large criminal investigation in relation to drivers. We do not read anything in this reply to the interpolation on whether or not this report was issued at the time. And it was obvious. But because of the inappropriate way in which the matter came into the public, he was looking for a way out of this mess. The documents, of course, speak differently. They also say that the Minister should be aware of the document that the Director's office addressed to the members of the Transport Safety Agency Council on 14 August, but the Minister claims otherwise. Why? Because there were other priorities back then. At that time, the priority was to remove the perpetrator of the director's duty, which is not, as one of you said, the real political colour, because he was a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time, and in line with the words of Alenka Bratušek, who spoke for this speaker, had to be chandeliered and focused on the main task and care. The Minister says today, by the way, "the opposition ran the Transport Safety Agency in 2012". Really? The opposition is responsible for this area? In 2012 there were only ten reviews, in 2013 there were 66. It doesn't matter, see, because it's not a number, but – who ran the Transport Safety Agency in 2012? The President of the Council of this Agency was the one proposed by Minister Vlačič at the establishment of the Agency and appointed by the Pahorje government, Mr Vinko Može. I think he's a member of the Social Democrats, the longtime director of the Aerodrome. And who was the director of this agency? Mr Ljubo Zajc and in this National Assembly in the first half of 2013 you greatly praised their work. You have greatly praised their work, despite the fact that, on the basis of the extraordinary supervision that I ordered in 2012 over the work of this agency, and this Minister Omerzel mentions nowhere, and the report on this supervision, this Council was dissolved on 8 and 6 February, and subsequently appointed the Acting Director of this Agency, Mr Pojbič, who began, forgive, to work in order. He started making order. As a result, this activity of the Agency improved in 2013. Otherwise you wouldn't. I believe that the Minister's co-workers, too, have not been overlooked this fact, especially because he stopped the law that was in connection with these activities in the National Assembly. In May this law on drivers was stopped because we wanted to reshape this agency in a way that would bring it closer to the Ministry, this formal arrangement was proposed in the composition of the body due to greater control, the possibility of control and so on, because it has proved that the agency as such will not function well in this area – not only because of these irregularities, but also because of another. At the time he proposed to stop the law, you were in favour of keeping the agency, that was, I think, May 2013, and the promise was that it would come in a few months' time a new law. It's not like that until today either. This is why, on the basis of this audit, we have done as we have done, it is stated that this Commission, which oversees the operations of the Agency for 2011, 2012, has found irregularities in several areas of work, has proposed supervision by the competent authorities, the Public Administration Inspectorate, the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors and the Labour Inspectorate. Due to the irregularities identified in the control, the Minister of Government has proposed the discharge of all members of the Council. It follows from the report that the Agency did not carry out any professional supervision in the area of additional safe driving training and additional training for beginners during the period from 1 July 2011 to 31 December 2012. It is further stated that, according to the Ministry of the Agency and the Crime Service, the exercise of control in these areas in 2012 could have an impact on the course of the forecasting procedure, but this does not justify the fact that no supervision has been carried out during the period referred to. This was done on 6 February 2013 within the framework of the government, which was then led as President of Janez Janša and in which I, as Minister, was in charge of this area. And once again, Minister Omerzel says, there's nothing in the transfer log about it, and that's why I'm exculpating any responsibility to do anything about it. There's not much in the transfer logs. A lot more. The documents were in the Ministry, the law was in the procedure, so this justification is more an emergency exit than anything else. Finally, it is indisputably concluded that the Minister was also personally familiar with these matters. The previous V.D. Director has started this activity. The members of the Council of the Agency were relieved by Minister Omerzel, President Bojan Žlender, who then carried out the recall procedure for Mr Pojbič and appointed the current perpetrator of Mr Igor Velov's duties, who comes from one of the schools about which we read strange things about the causes of some accidents, strange traffic accidents in strange circumstances, problems in paying taxes and so on. But he has one positive reference that this has happened. He is a member, as we have heard, of Zares, of whom Minister Omerzel was also a member, and this positive reference has probably been considered when appointing Mr Velov as acting director of the Transport Safety Agency. The documents presented and made publicly available, as well as at the final stage of the Minister's statement, speak of the fact that he was looking for a way out of this problem. It must be said that for what has happened, he himself is not personally responsible, he cannot be, because things have happened in the past, but he is responsible for the deception in this regard. I think it would be much more correct and fair if I said then, as he said later: "We will do everything to get this area settled and we will take appropriate measures." After what we have read in this report, I fear that those measures proposed will not regulate this area properly and there will be something else to be done. We believe that this point is also justified from what has been said. I move on to the last point, which speaks of misleading the public with regard to the conclusion of new transactions or the provision of services after taking up the post of Minister, the business of his company, which is solely owned by him – Lastinski, with the Society for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that the Minister owns this company is not disputed. We also said that, at a time when it should have been duly notified to the KPC, this situation was not reported, but the Minister, as he has repeated several times, publicly and today, said in a hearing before the mother labour body in this National Council that the scope of the operation with the State, if appointed as Minister, would not increase. And he didn't stick to it. And it's not our fault if the minister didn't stick to it. And at the very least, it is unfair that there is a bad will to run because the public has warned about it and then in the sent groups or those who have supported it. The minister didn't stick to it. If the matter had not come to the public, this treaty would have been signed, including other businesses, which later proved to have been or would have wanted to be carried out with these salinity meters, they would have also been executed, because the matter had come to the public and because the public had been revolutionised and because the government of Alenka Bratušek wanted to put before the public the face of a highly credible government acting on high ethical and moral principles, it was, of course, noise. He made a lot of noise. It is interesting to listen to the coalition’s support today, as was the case when this story came to the public until it calmed down. I am firmly convinced, and probably also those who will not support this interpretation, that this treaty would be signed and all others also, all other orders have been executed if this fact had not been made public. More. Already after this was made public, it was said that it was an old business and it was ordered, we saw earlier, documented with documentation carried out in 2013, a representative of this company participated in the negotiations, the contract was concluded, the contract should be signed. If all of this were not to happen in public, this treaty would also be signed, indicating that the Minister has unfortunately lost credibility and integrity at this point. Nothing else has to be said about it – that's enough. The claim that he could do business is true — why not? But then why did he make a different decision? Probably because he said something publicly in the National Assembly, and this weight of their words would have been eliminated. But because he did it, his credibility won't get any bigger. Its credibility is reduced because of such conduct, according to our assessment and in our view. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the fact that the ministry run by Minister Omerzel is very connected to Dars. Here it goes, you don't want to intertwine public-private relations and functions, and it's impossible to expect some correctional professional relationship. Impossible. Even in the future. On one side or the other. Either there's one in the can or there's another in the can. And at the very least, if Minister Omerzel was already so important to the government of Alenka Bratusek, it would be right for him to take over another resort where there is no conflict of interest. However, as we see from the forecasts of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, this will not happen. All this information has already been presented in more detail by colleague Vizjak as a proposaler, which is why I would not repeat it again. However, I think it is important to mention the fact that the Minister's integrity during the period when he took office, namely the fact that this business took place in 2008 at all. It was said that earlier this business was carried out by Tames that there was no flat rate for these services at the time – after the signing of the new contract, this flat rate in this contract amounted to EUR 4 000 750 a month, that at the time when this tender or order for this transaction was published in 2008, and when the Lastinski was chosen, he did not have a formal license, but it was not that important. More importantly, the fact that the choice was made in November 2008 or that the contract was signed in November 2008 and that, on this basis, Lastinsky issued invoices for almost 100,000 euros, of which more than 30,000 euros a month has been paid back, for the months of May-November 2008. That is to say, for a period when, no, it was not either chosen by the Minister's company, but for a period when there was not even this invitation to tender, 7 months ago. And then here again the statements of the Prime Minister of the Government, who signed these contracts on Dars' side. It is important who was the holder of this project and of this business, who had these contracts in hand and who proposed these signatures. This is Mr Anton Žagar, who was soon after the Minister's office was proposed as the V.D. Director of Infrastructure and was also appointed by the Government to this function. Since information came to the public that Dars had been released and prosecuted for alleged irregularities, he resigned after six days. This is once again the case of retired such and different officials, in order to shift responsibility from minister to minister to someone else. But there are more cases like this, and this isn't the only one, which is a few similar exceptions. The documents published in relation to this in the media, as well as the various statements in this regard, including the Minister himself, show that the Minister of Infrastructure and Space has deceived the public in this regard, that he did not speak the truth about the conclusion of new transactions or the provision of services after taking over the role of Minister of Dars through the company of Lastinski, which is solely owned by him. As I mentioned, a similar pattern is used elsewhere. It's always the same way. And when the pressure is too great for the public, let us see, at the final stage, the passing of responsibility on someone else or the resignation of the ministers’ associates who thus assume responsibility on their shoulders. I have already mentioned Mr Žagar, who is, interestingly, now an adviser to the Director of the Slovenian Railways, including companies belonging to the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Infrastructure Minister. This is followed by the case of Mr Bojan Žlendra, who was first appointed by Minister Omerzel as director of the Directorate or proposed to the Government, the Government appointed him director of the Transport Directorate, then appointed him as the council of the Agency to remove the former perpetrator of the duty, to set up a new one and so on. When this story came to light with problems in school and driving exams, he took over the role of the sacrificial lamb and, of course, gave up. However, he is still working at the Ministry and is probably still performing the same responsibilities as he did before. The last in this series of derogations is the Director of the Directorate of Roads Mag. Gregor Ficko, who was also sacrificed, allegedly because of the bridges. But in his place is a man who is said to have been wrongly dismissed in one of his former services. According to the minister, these people will be working in order in this area. I've said a lot about the Agency for Transport Safety and those exchanges before. When we follow these arguments and these events, I must say that there is no surprise in the support of the ruling coalition to the Minister. These words about giving him another chance. I don't think we've forgotten this rhetoric. We haven't even forgotten who it was meant for years ago. But I hope you haven't forgotten in the coalition how this story ended. If I conclude and withdraw slowly, in the opinion of the interpellation promoters and after what we have heard so far, this interpretation is fully justified. The Minister did not reject the arguments contained therein. He didn't refuse to break the law. He admits them. In one piece, he's talking about small red tape. In the second part, that his predecessors had wronged them, which we argued was not true. And some illegalities continue today, on the day of the debate on this interpretation. At the time of his appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order, to act on his conscience and to work with all his strength for the welfare of Slovenia. Many of the Minister's actions, both of which were explained in detail in the interpretation of the interpretation and are further explained today, as many others, speak of the fact that the Minister of Infrastructure and Space did not act in accordance with the oath he made in the National Assembly. Instead of working hard for the well-being of Slovenia, he worked in an important part of his function for the interests of his company, individual lobbyists and influential individuals. As a result of ignoring the decisions of the National Assembly and abandoning the obligations of the State and taxpayers, the biggest infrastructure investment, namely TES 6, will result in damage to many other infrastructure projects. The damage is also caused in the field of tolling or free-flow vehicles, where a public commitment was made to present a model for 10 million euros by the end of the summer, which is not available. The damage to people is also caused by paying for more expensive car cards than would be necessary. The damage will be done to people and to the economy, to the municipalities and to everyone else because, after the adoption of the energy law, they will pay significantly more expensive energy cards than would be necessary. We've warned about this in time, made amendments, but one is spoken and the other is working. In this law, which is as good as any, there are many things that say exactly the opposite, as the government and the minister state. They talk about additional bureaucracy, additional administration, additional regulation and additional burdens for citizens and others. The question, of course, is also raised as to whether a minister can be someone who knowingly deceives or who knowingly speaks falsehoods. Is it possible for a minister to put his private interest before the public after being warned by the public, and he did everything in his power not to deny, but to conceal his conduct? This business story by Lastinski and Dars tells of the fact that business will continue, but from now on, of course, less transparent and covertly, the company by Lastinski, only under another company. Here you have to wonder if business is all right, just like the Secretary of State. Why did it happen, and on the other hand, have you ever seen a case where someone who was chosen as a performer could say someone who was chosen by Darsa to build a highway, after he was given a choice decision, a message to Dars, "I will not do it, but he will do a third builder, and I will pick up a commission for a favor." Of course I wouldn't say that in public. There's no such case. There can't be one and there can't be one. Of course, this credibility of words is also greatly undermined by other statements that we have heard about the value of individual projects as well as the rest. So if a minister at some point loses integrity, which is necessary to perform such a public function, he is, in our opinion, an easy prey for such and other lobbies. It will be very difficult for the Minister with the lost integrity of the guardians of public interest. Out of words, but in actions, it's very difficult. In our view, Minister Samo Omerzel is objectively and subjectively responsible for the conduct described and also for the abandonment of his duties. In our opinion, he has lost the necessary integrity, which is necessary to serve as Minister. In our opinion, he has lost confidence in the public, and as such he is no longer responsible for the function he has been appointed to. Therefore, we believe that the Minister is personally politically responsible for infringements of Article 35(5) of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, for misleading the public with regard to the conclusion of new transactions or for the provision of services after taking over the functions of the Minister with the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, through the company of Lastinski, which is in its exclusive possession, for violating the provisions of the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws issued on its basis, which continue to continue to exist today, for the purpose of failing the public with regard to the situation in the schools, for ignoring the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the project to build the 6th block of the Thermoelectrica Šoštjanj and, as a result, for the possibility that this investment will continue to be costly and for the detriment of the taxpayers, which the Minister has made it possible to waive the obligation to conduct of the tenders which have been made unjustifiable, for the public to refuse of the procedure. Taxpayers will pay more than they need to. For all these reasons, we propose to the National Assembly to resolve Sam Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister with a team, MPs and MPs! We have before us, Your Honor, the third interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Prime Minister of this government, a government that has fallen into a precarious area a bad year ago, accompanied by great flaws in the substantive solutions of its transition. Under the tactics of Janez Janša, this has been resolved in the light of unconstitutional solutions, drastic savings, lack of social dialogue, and the inability to deal with the situation of individual departments, which have resulted in few problems. The pain of the previous government, which has failed to solve the problems of the environment of political stability and constructive dialogue, is indeed great. So much so that the champion of the current opposition announced soon after the loss of the post of Prime Minister that all political means would be used: To break, to induce, to divert attention to the real problems, to divide into ours and yours, to politicise, and to discredit the misleading allegations is already a visible and predictable way to realize political ambitions, especially the biggest opposition party. Why such an introduction, Your Honor? Because I would like to point out that the business possibility of interpolating the opposition does not take as an opportunity for any minister to clarify the circumstances of possible irregularities and political responsibility. Interpellations are just and only a political means through which the opposition wants to destabilise and prevent the government from functioning normally, and above all to confuse the contents of politicisation. Of course, I do not want to stress this in the light of today's debate as an excuse or a search for a distance from the problems that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space certainly has. I would like to stress that in this room, in this temple of democracy, we must give priority to content and actual problems to politicisation. Today we are ahead of the debate on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. The department, which we believe to be among the most difficult, was taken over ten months ago by the minister. The high pressure of stakeholders, the lack of money and the acute problems associated with the deteriorating state of road and also rail infrastructure, is a great deal for everyone to be such a great expert. Especially if we know that this is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the one under whose roof is the left hand share of the potential of investment projects. Through these, we know that it is only possible to launch an investment cycle at this moment, without which there will be no more visible start-up of the economy in our country. From the very beginning of this coalition, we have stressed that it is a resource of infrastructure and a space of resources that needs a vision of development for the future. Not just for a day or a week, but for years to come. This means that the Ministry's programme plan must start with a work that will exceed the preservation of the status quo but will upgrade and launch larger infrastructure and energy projects. This is what we have highlighted right now, before the new coalition treaty, in which the Social Democrats see not only a declaration document or a list of wishes, but a document that ministries will see as an act of key priorities in which the entire coalition must give all its energy. However, projects of individual resources, including infrastructure and space, cannot be optimally implemented without the proper financial structure and support of the entire government. This is reflected in next year's budgets as well as, more importantly, in measures to remedy emerging financial gaps that burden all public finances. The first steps leading to the recovery of the economy have been taken, but the Social Democrats in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space miss a vision of projects that are from the point of view of investment and thus a related growth of the economy among the key ones. Projects that would fill Slovenia's energy space with more emphasis on electricity generation in the light of the natural characteristics of our rivers are in some way standing. For many years or decades, politics as a profession has been unified in the fact that the potential of hydroelectric power plants in the medium and lower Sava plants is underutilised. On the added value of the investment cycle, not only from the point of view of the State, but also of the individual areas, I do not intend to explain in this place long and wide. Let me just mention Zasavje. Last October, I reminded Minister Omerzel of the issue of the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the Central Sava through a question of parliament. In addition to related mining activities and other heavy industries, the sussave is further burdened by poor infrastructure connections, cut off from any possibility of developing in some way a better region, which also deserves this Zasavje. That the situation is even more bizarre, it seems that Zasavje is becoming a hostage of signing new concession contracts, which will start the construction of hydroelectric power plants in progress. We do a lot of work on the concession contract. We miss the ministry's increased commitment to these issues with the expectation that it will become a commitment and that this issue will be resolved as soon as possible. The completion of the construction projects of hydroelectric power plants at the bottom of the Sava also requires an immediate operational plan of the Ministry to overcome obstacles that prevent the completion of the project from being seen to end. Of course, I do not say that everything in this ministry and not that it is possible to just press the button and run the projects mentioned above. It would also be irresponsible for the entire weight of hydropower plants to move to the Ministry, but much more needs to be done. The idea that energy is a field of opportunity for Slovenia has, unfortunately, begun to unravel with what we have seen in our space in recent years, if not decades. Construction projects of hydroelectric power plants have also become a collateral sacrifice of everything that is happening around Slovenian energy. Various interests and appetites, at least it seems, have been drawn into a zone where unfortunately there is no more talk about perspective and opportunity, but it is only about speculation, lobbying and gardening. This typical Slovenian spinning, based on the principle of "everybody cares about their course", has led us to a position that has no perspective and developmental charge. I expect the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to end this once. There was much to be said about the TES 6 project these days. Not at this point and at this debate, I stress again this and only that we expect the Social Democrats, and here Minister Omerzel has our support to explore what went wrong with the project in its construction. In addition to energy, the Ministry is also burdened with the issue of the acute state of road infrastructure, which has recently escalated in the form of long-lasting and barely rolling stock and bridges. Social Democrats will not agree that, at the expense of tightening and prudent spending and reducing budgetary resources, there is a justification for endangering safety at the burning points of overpasses and bridges. We expect the Ministry to launch an immediate action, followed by a programme to restore these bridges and these exposed areas in addition to partial prisons. That there was such an alarming situation on our roads is not only the Ministry’s fault, but a multi-annual policy of building and rebuilding roads that demanded their tax. The tax, when all the energy went to build the highway cross, has been forgotten in many cases on well - known sections of state roads. It is also not possible to overlook the issue of tolling for freight vehicles, institutional protection for road safety, which must remain in the form of an agency and the amendment of the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways. To further address the issue of rail infrastructure, which seems to be a black pit, which cannot be found a suitable solution for filling. Efforts to finally make an operational plan to start with an overall approach that must be financially and organisationally sustainable in the long term are strongly successful only through the national rail infrastructure programme. I hope the Ministry will start doing this too. All the sour apples the Ministry's gonna have to bite on, not to mention. I wanted to light up, and I probably forgot a lot of things, just a few questions that the ministry will have to deal more with in the light of better use of investment potentials for greater economic activity in our country. We are aware that it is expected that, despite the provision of operational plans, the ministry will be forced to go hand in hand with a project to remedy the public financial deficit. However, not to the extent that continuing and delaying or under-ambitious measures would always follow the excuse that there is no adequate financial plan. Right in the light of the burdened banking system and the right priorities, which should not only be of a sanitary nature but also of a development nature, we see a good opportunity to start with the more active functioning of the ministry. What will happen in the future in the infrastructure and space sector cannot be avoided at this interpretation. More. I believe that today is a real opportunity to get answers to these questions and to enlighten them in the light of the responsibility of the minister, because it is no longer just political responsibility, but responsibility for what will happen in the area of major investment projects in Slovenia in the future. The text of the interpretation of the opposition Members, unfortunately, does not raise these questions. It relies largely on the functioning of a private company and on alleged irregularities. At the same time, we have already made it clear, with all these observations, that responsibility and discretion have been given to the Minister, under the weight of such perceptions, to carry out his duties competently, especially on his own, on the National Charter and, lastly, on the President of the Government, who has given him confidence. It is crucial for us that the ministry launches an active and operational implementation policy not only in a work that requires rapid and effective recovery of the acute areas of the ministry, but rather to deal more actively with development projects. In the light of all that has been said, the Social Democrats will vote against the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Dear, good-bye! Today we are talking about interpretation – no, not lapsus, it is interpretation. We have a clear legal and factual situation, but obviously from this clear legal and factual situation we are implementing different conclusions, different interpretations, as of course someone prefers. But the truth is one thing. Interpellation shall be a constitutional institution, incorporated in the Constitution in order to warn or resolve the Minister when there is a reasonable suspicion that he does not carry out his duties in accordance with the oath he gave at the time of his appointment. It's about legality and illegality. Almost the rule is that interpellation is against ministers who work, who are successful and who are dangerous to the opposition from this title. However, success and work are not desirable with the interpellation candidates. Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption – let me go according to individual interpretation items. It is obvious that the Minister violated this law and the Ministry of Infrastructure and did not provide any information on the company to which he is sole owner and subject to legal restrictions. The Minister was appointed to this function on 2 April 2013. The appointment was followed by a hearing on the parental committee, where the minister said in the presentation, quote: "Lastinski Engineering is my company in 100% ownership. Here I must warn you that there is also a company called Lastinski Pak, and this is a company owned by my oldest brother." Public, transparent statement by the Minister. Immediately after leaving office, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote on its website in the presentation of Minister Sam Omerzel: "The family was created in Novi Grad, from which his company Lastinski, d. o. o., also penetrates international markets. "Another clear, transparent public announcement of a certain fact. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, in the Slovenian and English versions, also gave the data on the Minister's company correctly on the websites. And who, in fact, is the subject of information on companies with which the Ministry is not allowed to operate? The Ministry itself. The aim of the public has also been achieved in this way. It is obvious that the Minister never concealed the fact that he owned the company Lastinski Engineering, and did not hide it even when he was running for office as minister, did not hide it when he presented himself to the members of the National Assembly, and did not hide it when he took office as Minister of Infrastructure and Space. More important, then, is the strict adherence or strict adherence of those who must. A company that has another director and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. And one more thing. What is the worst penalty if this article is not respected? The worst civil sanction is that all businesses owned by an official of the same ministry have become null and void. Nothing without legal effect, and this is the function that the law actually requires to violate this Article. Does anyone really believe that after the Minister has exposed all his business and business in order to secretly continue to assume his obligations in such a way as to violate the operating restrictions imposed on him by Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Persuading Corruption? The answer to this question is probably not necessary, nor is it necessary to answer the question whether the Minister violated the purpose of the law when he missed a period of one month. It is clear that from the first day of appointment, all the ficus in the Ministry knew that the Minister was the owner of the company and that the Ministry should not operate with this company. It is also evident that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space later fulfilled its legal obligation and communicated the data to the Commission to persuade corruption. It should also be said that even if we were dealing with business or when we were talking about business, it was happening in the past with Durs and not with the Ministry. Next thing you know, doing business with Dars. Interpellation is evident to the Minister of Public Misdirection regarding the conclusion of new business. Of course, the eyewitnesses are not justified. The Minister at the presentation meeting of the Committee explained on his own initiative, quote: "By the time I decided to run for minister, I was an entrepreneur. I worked as a good host in my companies and fought for business so that I could pay my wages and so that I could develop the company. In the context of the work for the country, I would like to clarify two current issues. One is €75 000 in revenue from the country under Eureka," and I go on to say, "the other work related to the country is our work with Dars. Our company has maintained road weather stations since 2008 at Dars, and this contract has actually been implemented since 2008. And as far as working with the country is concerned, we must respect these existing treaties. We will not increase the scope of our operations with the country and will not sign new contracts in the event that I am elected Minister." We will not increase the volume of business with the country. The minister here may have said a little awkward. Otherwise there was no business with the state, there was business with Dars. The Minister did not extend the scope of his business, as he said, although he was not forced by any law at all, but he stood up for his promise. The company with Dars since autumn 2013 does not operate at all. Until then, the KPK did not detect any irregularities. Even more. They stated in their opinion that the operation of the company with Dars is not a business with the State and is not subject to any restrictions, which is also based on legal provisions. Paragraph six, paragraph 35. The Article of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption clearly provides that operating restrictions do not apply to operations under contracts concluded prior to the performance of the official. In accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the administrations of Dars, d. d. and Slovenian Railways are accountable to each of their supervisory boards appointed by the administration of the Court of Justice, d. d. The Court of Justice is hereby appointed by the Government on the basis of a special tendering procedure. However, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space does not have any influence in all of this and thus cannot influence these two companies, which are independent in their operations. The third point of the interpretation reading relates to the management of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. It's an incredible hoax. The competition procedure for the appointed new Director of Gurs should already be carried out by Minister Cernač and instead by Mr Seliškar's current Director on 28. 2. 2013 powers to lead the Gurs. Minister Omerzel submitted a proposal in April 2013 for a public competition to hold the post, 14. 5. The official council issued a decision appointing the Commission and 19. 12. The competition was also published in public and has not yet been completed. What kind of substantive violations of the law are these? And what are the financial and other implications for the country? Aleš Seliškar is a long-standing director of Gursa, who has implemented a project of mass property valuation in the Republic of Slovenia, which is also extremely important at this time due to the implementation of another law, corrections and applications for the introduction of the Real Estate Tax Act. The work of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia is carried out at all times in an optimal, professional and self-managed manner. Another minister has authorised Mr Seliškar to lead Gurs and Minister Omerzel has not withdrawn this mandate. Irregularity in high school. Following the alleged misappropriation of the public with regard to the situation with regard to secondary schools, the applicant relies on media reporting. In doing so, the applicant writes, quote: "Of the approximately 130 schools, abuses were also detected in 36 auto schools, and there are still thousands of 558 cases, because there is a suspicion that this is a crime. The investigation relates to the implementation of driving school programmes, additional safe driving and point deletion programmes and the allocation of driving examinations between 2010 and 2012 and is still under way." End of quote. With regard to this report, the speaker wrote, inter alia, citing: "It is more obvious, therefore, that in order to protect his function and to escape his responsibility, Minister Sam Omerzel again misleads the public on his knowledge of the irregularity of schools and exam centres." End of quote. Let's remember, the minister's acting as second in command. 4. 2013 Since 2004, the competent ministers for the supervision of the operation of the school have been Janez Bozič, SLS, Radovan Žerjav, SLS, Patrick Vlačič, SD, Mr Černač, SDS. It is more than obvious that the applicants of the interpretation for irregularities that have accumulated and then erupted from 2010 to 2012 in auto schools want to blame the current minister, who has become a good year after these events. According to him, the minister only found out about the irregularities. 11. 2013 by the police. Anyone who claims otherwise should prove it. This information is not contained in any pre-delivery record. The data that the Minister knew about this earlier are not in the pre-receivable record between the Ministers of Vlačič, Černač, Maher and Omerzel, nor are there any pre-receivable records between the Directors of the Road Safety Agency, nor between the Directors of the Transport Directorate. There was no document before that at the Ministry. It is clear that already before the Minister's term of office, a large-scale criminal investigation has been conducted in the Police for suspected organised crime in larger schools and other connected persons. In view of this, it is clear that under the previous ministers he has denied control on the entire line. How could this have happened? Criminal activity has been detected by services outside the Ministry system, which will process matters to the end, I am talking about the Police. Minister Omerzel, an operator from the economy, did in one month what others couldn't in years. He has put in place extraordinary control over all agencies, the Directorate and the Ministry, already preparing a systematic revision of legislation to prevent such anomalies in the future and to establish and ensure such a control mechanism that such an event will never happen again or that individual perpetrators will be immediately exposed and prosecuted before the court. This raises the question of why the applicants did not submit the interpretation until December 11th, why they did not submit without delay when they found out about the irregularities. They could have filed it in May, but they didn't. Apparently, they're the only ones who knew about the irregularities that didn't come out. We regret that they have not chosen a way out of the economic crisis, a rise in competitiveness, new jobs, a rational public administration in order to attack interpolation. We believe that we would find a variety of good solutions to the general benefit when we work creatively. With regard to the evidence of ignoring the conclusions of the National Assembly on the construction project of the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, it should be stressed that the project of the 6th block of the Thermoelectrica Šostanj has been under way since the year 2003 when the project was an ideal presentation, that was in the former government of Robo. Most of the strategic documents, documents such as the financial plan, the development strategy of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants 2006-2015, the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023. The choice, today, can already be said, in phrases, the most favourable or better said least-favoured bidder and the signing of the contract for the construction of the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, everything happened during the government of Janez Janša. And this one was well aware of the TES 6 project. Mr Vizjak was also the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plants. And who, in the same term, was the president of the board of directors of the company which owned the subsidiary of the company Termoelectrica Šostanj? The President of the Management Board of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants was Dr Jože Zagozhen. At least it seems to us that it is the proponents who have been closely involved in the implementation of this project and who have had the power to make strategic decisions and who may or at least not have made decisions in favour of Slovenian taxpayers have not done so, but now they point to Minister Omerzel and want to remedy, literally, all the wrong decisions made in previous times at night. One of these wrong decisions was also the estimated value of the project. The construction project was estimated at €602 million in the previous government. There will be no mistake in voicing the wrong assessment of the rise in electricity prices. Such an estimated value of the project does not reflect the actual value of the equipment, because we do not want to mislead about the non-execution of the conclusions, it is necessary to say that Minister Sam Omerzel has complied with the recommendations – recommendations, not requirements, not tasks, but recommendations at the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. At its 53rd extraordinary meeting last week, the Members and Members were fully and comprehensively presented the dynamics of the events related to the construction of the 6th block of the Šostjanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, as well as all the measures that have been or will be taken. The following was presented. A review carried out by the State Defence of all contracts on the grounds of civil sanctions and the examination of the conformity of contracts and the search for liability. The State Attorney's Office has carried out checks on civil relations and the search for responsibility. Regrettably, there is also one institution in that country which has certain powers and is responsible as the Ombudsman for the public interest to do something about clarifying these legal transactions and seeking responsibility. An investment programme No 6 is being made intensively, which will for the first time be based on reliable and accurate data. The latest amendment programme number 5 was denied credibility by the KPMG Audit House. The credibility in this part that they doubt that this programme has been listed on the correct assumptions. And what previous innovative investment programmes have been like, we can also ask ourselves if the number 5 is questionable. We only hope that the number 6 will be correct, correct and that on this basis Slovenian policy will be able primarily to make the right decisions. The Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office shall carry out investigations and file criminal charges. We are witnessing this daily, weekly and we expect and demand that this trend continue. It is the institutions that are called in this country and specialize in finding what we suspect exists in this story – corruption is suspected. The basis for carrying out a forensic investigation of the entire project is also being prepared, and we are talking about the legal basis. The motions for a minister are ignored by the conclusions of the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stated that, in a specific case, only recommendations could be sent to the Minister and to the Government and those recommendations were followed by the Minister. No instructions and no requests. Even so, the Minister has engaged, regardless of the conclusions of the National Assembly, in order to obtain all the project data, and for the first time we have a minister who also controls the Teš 6 project. It was said that Minister Omerzel was in control of Project Teš 6 in a way that would lead him politically to the end. It is an extremely difficult professional question and the responsibility of Minister Omerzel with an investment in Teš 6 is light years away. The project is run by Thermoelectrica Šostanj d.d., a subsidiary of Holdinga Slovenski Power Plants with its administration and its supervisory board. The Head of State Property is the Court of Justice with its own administration and its supervisory council, and this is what the Government appoints according to some of the selected professional criteria of a commission that employs it. At the last extraordinary meeting, the speakers repeatedly stressed that they were not looking for responsibility back, that they could not report it to any government, but that the biggest problem was that the current Minister of Investment did not manage it and did not report to the National Assembly. That was obviously the point of the previous session. But what if we did listen to him and seek responsibility back? Also political responsibility, if necessary, who were those people in charge of this project and where political and professional responsibility must be sought. That's what I was just talking about. The choice of operator for license plates is the following statement. In our opinion, it's groundless. It is an observation to the Minister that, by selecting the supplier of registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers, he damaged taxpayers on a public invitation to tender. The facts are completely different. Minister Černač has issued a public invitation to choose the supplier of license plates with precise characteristics, which is probably what we all agree on. Two tenderers applied for the invitation to tender within the open time limit, and we also agree on that. One of the tenderers did not fulfil the conditions and its offer was excluded for essential reasons. The provider did not have the appropriate registration, the tenderer did not have the relevant references, did not provide adequate space protection and did not provide the relevant technical documentation and certificates. This is the conclusion of the State Audit Commission or of the Commission which has carried out and acted on this invitation to tender. And so another bidder was chosen, whose offer was the only perfect and correct one. Although the unelected tenderer submitted a correct audit and the State Audit Commission rejected the audit as unfounded and confirmed the correctness of the choice. Take a look at the statement and explanation of the two decisions of the State Audit Commission, from which this decision is also clear. And now it's top-notch. Interpellations shall be made clear to the Minister why he did not cancel the invitation to tender. In particular, this means that they require non-compliance with Article 80 of the Public Procurement Act and consequently illegal conduct. In a particular case, the invitation to tender could not be revoked as there were no legally permissible conditions. I'll tell you more about it in the debate. Let us prepare ourselves for this, article 80 of the Public Procurement Act, which states exactly what reasons and when we can cancel the invitation to tender, and these reasons are not just that. Applicants report too high the price of registration plates. The analysis of prices across Europe made by the Ministry shows that the prices of the selected tenderer are more than favourable. And there's one more thing. Minister Černač is in technical characteristics in the preparation of the invitation to tender – that this invitation to tender could have been made by the Commission, that the Minister could have known about it, that I cannot say, but in these technical characteristics a special coating was required, which at the cost of drawing up the tables represents half the price. However, no one required this coating, but it was one of the technical conditions. What it means in price, we know. And the irony is that the unchosen ones in this call, for which the applicants are actually so much sought, did not calculate it at a price and did not meet this technical condition. Of course, that's why he could have been so much cheaper. And I can only speculate that if we all agreed on everything, we'd probably agree on that, wouldn't we? And it is not true that there have been irregularities and that this invitation to tender should be revoked. If we were to care for taxpayers, we would automatically throw this condition out with coatings and provide the most favourable price to taxpayers or all those who pay the registration plates out of their pocket. This would probably be the price, as declared and determined and offered by an unchosen tenderer. And one more thing, the unelected tenderer is a German company, the selected bidder is a Slovenian company, which does not play any role, but personally I am not indifferent. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that the results of Minister Omerzel's work today would be seen as important achievements by the government if the applicants participated in this same government. Minister Omerzel is the first minister to manage the investment of TEŠ 6 and to act as a good host, is the minister who respects the law on public procurement, is the minister who corrects irregularities in auto schools, is the minister who ensures that the work of government services and bodies in these difficult times is carried out professionally and efficiently, is the minister who has eliminated any impression of conflict of interest, and is the minister who introduces the practice of a successful economist also in the ministry, and is the minister with vision and courage. The proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel in the Civil Gazette will not be supported for the reasons just stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. The first one applied for the word of the applicant. On behalf of the applicants, he has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. After this performance, the last one, in particular, could say, look, every gypsy boasts his little one, no matter how hollow it is, how stinky and empty it is, but every gypsy praises his little one. And regardless of the arguments, regardless of the content that's been presented, and I'll probably have to show it a few more times, because there were no answers to that. And it's not about interpretation, Your Honor. It's not working. It is now an interpolation and it is a serious proven finding, but most of them have not been answered at all. He wasn't even there, not that any other interpretation was given. There was no easy answer. I'm sure I'll have to warn you again or twice. And, Minister, it's not true that we don't want to hear you, we listen very well, but you don't answer our questions. And I'll start again with your words. You, the Minister-designate, have said in your response to the interpretation that you are on a heairing hearing in front of your mother's working body, the Infrastructure Committee, on 2 April, have publicly disclosed everything, I stress, all the existing business relations with Dars. These are your words that you have publicly disclosed all existing business relations with Dars. At the hearing on April 2nd, Mr. Minister said nothing about the business he had been doing for years, this is about maintenance and calibration, so calibration, salinity meters Room 20. There was no mention of this, although the Minister publicly claimed in response to the interpretation that he had publicly disclosed in the hearing all existing relations with Dars. Did anyone answer that question? Did he reveal or not? Yeah, but is that an interpretation, or is that a fact? That's a fact, and he didn't reveal it. And we're saying he lied and at least shut up. Come in. You're the president of the government, and the minister said he'd repeatedly claimed that he wouldn't expand his business with Dars. But do you know what the minister said, Your Honor, literally what he said? He literally said, among other things, that he did not answer exactly what we were asking, he said and committed himself to hearing on April 2nd before his mother's working body when he was acting as minister. He literally said, "I will not sign new contracts in case I am elected Minister. Not that he's spreading business, a new business, but that he's not signing new contracts. Dear Mr Braniselj, this is not an interpretation, read a magnetogram, it says on the magnetogram: "I will not sign new contracts." The Minister made a public commitment on 2 April 2013 that he would no longer sign new contracts with Dars. Is that an interpretation? It's not. This is evidence, it's in this National Assembly, we have a magnetogram of this hearing. Why do we say he lied? And here come these contracts again, which we haven't received any answers to. Salt meters. He shall send salt meters each year before the winter season Dars to the service and annual calibration for this authorised operator with a manufacturer’s licence. In this case, Boschung. And how was he chronological? The minister said there would be no new business, and this business was shut up, as we knew, and he didn't report it at all, even though he said he had exposed all the business. On 8 October, the Minister sent the company Lastinski, the 100 % owner of which is Mr Samo Omerzel, sent an offer to calibrate the salt meters. October 8th, so before the winter season. Why did she send an offer? Because it wasn't meant to work? Because she wanted to do this job. On 21 October the order was followed by Darsa to the company Lastinski, which is owned by 100 % of Mr Omerzel. The subscription is a mandatory annual calibration of the salinity meter, repair, manufacture and replacement, and so on – EUR 12 000 623 without VAT. After coming from the company of Lastinski, he took over from Andrej Vidmar, an employee of the Ljubljana motorway base, Grič 54, 28 salinity meters and these salt meters were also taken over by other highway stations, Postojna, Vipava, Logatec, Hrušica, Podtbor, Vransko, Ljubljana and so on, the acquisitions of these meters were signed. Lastinski came for salinity meters to Dars. Dars didn't send them with a warrant, as you interpreted until recently. On November 22, they were resigned to take back 14 pieces and later others because they were successfully returned. Dearly beloved, from the order to December of the decision taken by Omerzel not to do these business any more, of course this is a week after the media has also revealed that this deal is also being carried out with Darsa, he has sent a note to the Constituent that he will not carry out this business and has returned the order. Now, you tell me how it is no longer clear from this that Lastinski wanted this deal, submitted an offer, took over the metering at the toll stations and gave up after public publication and pressure on the public. Dear Branisel, the interpretation, the maintenance of the time stations on the highways. Once again, the Minister made it clear at the hearing, "I will not sign new contracts in case I am elected Minister." Mr Omerzel has been elected Minister and let's look ahead. On 20 October, the Motorways Company shall forward the tendering documentation for the selection of the operator by the negotiated procedure without prior publication, given that the licence holder was the same manufacturer for the regular maintenance of the Bosch Road Weather Station. Then, on November 12th, the offer and the negotiation. And interesting. Here we have a record of the negotiations. It follows from this record that they had a hard bargaining process. They negotiated 20 minutes on the value of €185,000. They negotiated for 20 minutes and negotiated for 0.6% lower price. These are really tough negotiations. Like with Mr. Struggle around. And now you, Your Honor, are asking yourself that this is an interpretation, and I'm saying that this is about integrity. Give me, Mr Braniselj, how companies negotiate, Dars in particular, with the minister's business company. How am I supposed to say, without a bit of bias, they negotiate, with the minister repeatedly publicly — if necessary, I will also bring the clips here — attacking or demeaning Darsa’s leadership that there is a problem so and so on and that something will have to be done. So, Darsa's leadership is under threat, and here his company comes to negotiate with Dars about business. And the result of the 20-minute negotiations is 0.6% lower. Dear Mr Branisel, this is not an interpretation. This is a record of the negotiations. You can come and see, I'll read it to you. The starting price plus VAT was €185,000 196. The negotiated price was EUR 183 000 976. So they've been negotiating for a good jury, which represents 0.6%, as I said before. And you tell me, Mr Omerzel, that you have just made one mistake, you have forgotten to mention this ownership to the Ministry, and as a result, your company has not come to the list of those companies that are not allowed to operate, and there is nothing wrong with this formality, as this is permissible under the anti-corruption legislation. Look, I'm asking you as many questions as people, do you think it's normal, and you think it's possible to negotiate impartially, without burden, between Dars, between a company under the minister's portfolio and the director of the public attack by the minister, and with a company owned by him? How is it possible, without burden, to negotiate impartially with these matters? And you're saying that it's just some formal stunt, some kind of small, what do you say, a misdemeanor. It's pressure, it's a conflict of interest that can't be greater. And you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Civil Code, which you declare as anti-corruption fighters, against the clientism that you have committed a third of the law on Slovenian State Holding Prevention, as you would say, customerism and corruption, you simply cover and say that this is all true and that this is an interpretation. Ladies and gentlemen, not only is this deception, but it's double standards, and not least, it's worse. We also have here a document on a negotiated price. Believe me, if someone submitted an invitation to tender, if someone came to negotiate and negotiated for maintenance and servicing of road weather stations, he would undoubtedly sign a contract – did he come to do it because he had nothing else to do? Because it costs because every company costs it. By the way, there was also a simultaneous guarantee of the seriousness of the offer. Each guarantee also costs something because it was an integral part of the tendering documentation. This was also included in the tendering documents. The result was a press release saying the minister wanted a new contract, they pulled back his statements a little bit, and the minister changed his mind and gave up. He said it himself, I walked away from it. I gave up that money like it belonged to him. You give up if something belongs to you, and then you don't actually accept it and give up. The minister, once again, said at the hearing, "I will not make new contracts." It's a new contract. And you quoted well that clause of the integrity law, which says that when you do business, you don't include those contracts that have already been signed. But it's not that kind of business, it's a new business, it's a new deal, it's a new deal, it's a new deal, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new job, it's a new This is a new deal, a new deal. More than clear. Because there was also a new contract in the past for each year. And this is a new deal, a new contract, and the obvious deception and lying to the minister at the hearing because he didn't intend to do it. He was going to make a new contract because he'd been working all year to get to it. So, Your Honor Braniselle, I'm actually going to conclude this first part here. You said, as well as some others before you, that there are no authentic documents here, that there are some interpretations and some interpretations. I have here, look, papers, please come look at them, if you don't believe me in those public words, these are contracts, orders, and behind them I stand. More. How the company Lastinski got into this business, I also told you. Until 2008, Tames did this, and we also have the latest documentation with this and the contract with this company. Then there was the invitation to tender, by the way, in August 2008 the company also obtained a licence, after which it was 26. 11. Signed the first contract between Lastinsky and Dars worth EUR 171 000 825 without VAT, 15 months from the date of entry into force of the contract. This is said, if I understand correctly, and probably under bond law it is not otherwise possible, the contract shall apply from signature onward, that is to say from 26. 11th on. And look, here's the account of the company Lastinski, which was issued by 19. 12. 2008 That's what you say, say it and write, a few more than 20 days after the contract is signed is the first account. So, if I said before that the contract value was 171 thousand 825 euros, the bill was issued – do you know how much? For 79,000 euros, after 20, 25 days of contract. And you know how long ago? Seven months ago. Property company issued an invoice for six months when it had no contract with Dars. And you, Your Honor, even in Positive Slovenia, have said that we speak without proof that we just say something like that without proof that there will be no evidence, etc. I don't know what that is. But it's a fake, we made it up, but is that proof? In a presentation by the Group of Members, positive Slovenia said that there is no evidence that we are inventing something here. Braniselle added that this is a matter of interpretation. There's no interpretation. And look, interesting in this account. Do you know what's at stake? It's a month's notice. This, however, is innovation when Mr Omerzel says that the Lastinian is an innovative company. It's true, especially innovative for billing. In fact, by the time Dars was in business with Tames, there was no monthly flat rate, there were half-year checks, road weather stations and, of course, servicing costs, mostly the type we saw. The tip was a problem or sensors or whatever you call it. Gentlemen at the company of Lastinski invented a monthly flat-rate, and they also gladly charged it. EUR 4 000 750 per month, and this has borne a practically good part of the invoice. Of these 79,000 invoices, there were 33 000 250 monthly lump sums, and then there are regular half-year reviews, which is an additional 13,000 euros. This is said to be an ongoing matter without any action, more than half the bill. That's not what Tames used to count. And who made this business possible at the end of 2008 – now you will point to the government of John Janša – who made it possible? Mr. Anton Jagar. Mr Anton Žagar was the proposer of the contracts for this business and was also responsible for this area in Dars. Here I ask the President of the Government, because she has read that it was under the administration of Darsa, whether she checks every contract that Mr Omerzel or anyone else has made for her, if she signs it on behalf of the Government. I have been in a number of governments, and I know that, in particular in such cases, you have to trust your fellow worker, those who are professionally responsible for the preparation of these transactions. Where would every minister and anyone come to check every contract? And we, ladies and gentlemen, do not report to Minister Omerzel that he was guilty as a minister or that any of the ministers was guilty of it. From this document comes his way of functioning as an entrepreneur in relation to, as I would say, the favor of certain now incarcerated and prosecuted people on Dars, such as Mr Žagar. Mr Zhagar, who was on Dars, has been prosecuted and Dars' compensation for fire extinguishers worth EUR 3 million. And we're saying that from this business that we have in our hands, because it could have been another one, but we don't have these documents, but we do, so we hope to say it, it turns out that I think you can charge one company, a state-owned company something seven months ago if you have not a contract for another month. [[…]] How can you do that? Mr. Braniselle, is that an interpretation? But it's an interpolation, I ask you to answer me, it's not an interpretation, because you'll be half I know. These are evidence, facts. And about this, Sir Omerzel, you did not answer me in response to the interpretation with either one sentence or one sentence. And you're saying we don't want to hear you. We'd like to hear from you, only you don't tell us anything. We're very eager to listen to you. And we'd especially like to hear about that flat cable study, which would be interesting. Mr. Žagar, a specialist for the company Lastinski, made it possible for the company and accepted, signed a deal worth EUR 33 000, which was contract 3. 3. or the opening of tenders, the contract was concluded 1. 8. 2008 Look, I have a contract here, the contract is signed, you can't believe it, by Minister Sam Omerzel, and on the other hand is Dr. Jan Oplotnik, Deputy Prime Minister. The Treaty establishing a study on the eligibility of the use of flat cables in the execution of electrical installations, proposed by Mr Žagar, writes. That's 3. 3. 2008 The deal is one. 8. 1008. Date of opening of tenders 3. 3, it may also be 3.5............................................................................................................................................ Actually, it's irrelevant. Because the company's offer was made 29. Two, I believe it's three. 3. That's why I used this date. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this contract, Lastinski started working with Darsa and received a good EUR 34 000, which is also reported to you today by Slovenian news, you have a clip, inside everything holds. I have here a contract and an application for a contract and a contract. And this study, according to Darsa's officials, who know the substance of this thing, is totally useless, no further value of it, has remained in some drawers, and I am asking you whether you are assessing that there was any added value in these studies that you have so beautifully cashed. Those who examined it have found that it is a translation of the prospectuses of these cables, which is a translation of the prospectuses of manufacturers. That that text is less than one page you were able to write for this money yourself, the rest you probably paid the translator to do so. Your Honor! What is the most common phenomenon for corruption or soaking of government money? Various contracts, various studies. Studies work for Dars, work for Telekom, work for a lot of people in this country. And so Mr Omerzel himself signed this contract in 2008 for a study with which Dars, after all, is said after these five or six years, does not know what to do. And also, it was kind of a translation. I would really like to ask and ask whether one revision of the added value of this particular study cannot be made. Gentlemen, you are saying there is no evidence that there are only some valuable judgments, that we are merely politicizing something, I have presented you with documents here. I'm probably going to have to do it again – now I'm just 25 minutes, so I can calculate the time, because you're going to talk again about just cheating and that we're just doing political work. I have contracts here. Orders where you and them are signed. By the way, respectable Omerzel, even if Mr Jean Jan Oplovtnik is signed below, or anyone who has signed such a contract does not untie him, and I do not want to excuse him. In every business that's bad, it's not just one side to blame, but it's more than one side to the bad. That's definitely the way it is. It is always necessary to ask for the health of both parties. That's what we say every time we criticize the giving of bad loans. All credit contracts have two signatures, from the banker and from the company. They're both pretty much guilty. It's usually even more to blame than the one who gives money than the one who takes the money. Not even if it's public funds. Look. Here I have now tried once again to explain the basis of the interpretation that speaks of the integrity of the Minister. The Minister must understand, Mr Braniselj, and here we do not speak to interpretation, he must understand that if the holder of the most responsible functions in the executive branch of power, that is, if he is a minister, he cannot at the same time conclude new business and contracts with companies that are under his work cycle, even though indirectly. Energy is also directly under Mr Omerzel, including Dars, and probably also Slovenian railways. But integrity here is clear. Minister Omerzel tried to get a job twice when he was a minister. He was arguing, here we have all the documentation I've shown for a new contract for the maintenance of road weather stations and he wanted to get a deal on the basis of a order for the resolution of salinity meters. It's not a matter of interpretation, it's a fact. A minister who doesn't understand that he can't be a minister at the same time and work for the country in his field, I don't think he has anything to look for in the government. That is why I think this is a key and fundamental finding and a clear statement from this interpretation. The claims, she said from Positive Slovenia, "is to be proved", I don't know if you listened to me, I hope I proved what I'm saying. I didn't prove it? I don't know how you could, really not if you don't think it's evidence. We also heard a great deal of praise from the minister. There's been a lot of complacency, I've never talked about myself like that, and I never will, but maybe I'm thinking the same thing, but I'm not saying that because it's just not appropriate. It was said that everything he created was hard to earn. See, that deal with Dars in 2008 with Darsa, that commission for a study on the possibility of installing flat cables in tunnels instead of round cables, probably any entrepreneur in that country would want to get such a contract for such a study, probably for a 34 000-euro study, which then includes a final translation of prospectuses. If it's hard to save money, then a lot of workers in this country obviously don't know what hard money is. I don't think it's particularly hard to save money, Mr. Omerzel. You yourself have said that you will not expand your business, Mr Omerzel, but you have never denied your statement at the hearing, in which you said you would not enter into new contracts if you were elected as Minister. And I'm asking you if you really said that. It's just "yes" or "no" because you can't say, "I said, I didn't." Is that what you said? Second question of mine, purely direct: Were you planning to conclude a contract to maintain the road time stations forward, with you actively participating in the contract preparation phase — not you, but representatives of your company? Were you planning on doing business to maintain the salinity meters because you accepted the order and didn't return it immediately? After receiving the order, you went to look for these salinity meters, as evidenced by the documents, and then only within a month did you return the whole thing. These are very clear questions. I'd be very happy to hear your answers from here on out. It's a Chestnut thermal power plant. I know, because I understand you don't want to hear the readings from the interpolation. You are immediately returning to the history of this project, although this discussion is relevant, but this is not our observation. Our statement is only one in this regard, and listen to him well, please. Our observation is only one: the minister did not execute the government's 15th rulings. Seven. 2013 These decisions of the Government were discussed two days later in Parliament and were upgraded by a recommendation from Parliament. Parliament agreed with the government in every way and said, "This is what the conclusions say, just for God's sake, fill them out!" And what happened, my dear? Again, you say these are interpretations. There's no interpretation. Nothing happened. Here, Mr Branisel has afforded even one deceiving. I have this chronology of events, and I can explain all this to him, and I will make this very clear again. On the Committee on Infrastructure and Space in January this year or in Parliament, the Minister said publicly that he could not disclose the State Defence report because he was supposed to be in the disclosure process and therefore has no green light to reveal it. However, the Minister did not say that this report, if we can say so, was an opinion of the State Defence Department, which was forwarded to the Government in October 2013, and we had this discussion this month. This report does not address the enforcement of the seventh decision, except with one sentence. In this reply, the Office of the Ombudsman states that it is not within the jurisdiction of the State Defence to determine the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities in the event of the construction of block 6. That's literally what it says. Attorney General's office is not competent. The State’s Attorney’s Office did not say whether someone was guilty or not guilty, even that it did not say that no one was guilty, but that they were not competent to say it. I can give you this report, too. It's no problem. And what was in this letter of defense or in this report? The report provided only an answer to five questions raised by the Ministry of Infrastructure. The government is 15. Seven. It adopted a decision imposing on the State Defence, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance to report within three months on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities. At the end of September 2013, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space addressed five questions to the State Defence. These questions were not related to questions relating to the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities, but only to the possibility of nullifying Alstom’s and TES — in short, for one thing — and which law is applicable, Swiss and ours and so on. In October, the State Attorney's Office answered these questions with a report. It has practically been said that nothing can be done here and it has been stated by one sentence that the State Defence Office is not competent to determine the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies. On that basis, the minister on the committee told us that he could not give us this report. Deceptive. There was also no degree of confidentiality on this report. This was just a letter from the State Attorney's Office. And what do I want to tell you? That this is not a report on the implementation of the seventh decision of the Government, for this report has only written that the State's defence of what the Government has decided it must do cannot do because it is not competent. From here until now, I do not know what the Ministry of Infrastructure has done on this issue to determine the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies. I don't know what it did. And I want this report. This report had to be made on the basis of the decisions of the Government and has not been implemented. Your Honor, we're reading this to the Minister, that's all. Not a delusion with the story TEŠ 6 and his responsibility for not knowing what. But we are reading to him one more thing that falls within his mandate and which is related to these decisions of the Government. This is that the investment will be conducted in accordance with the guarantee law issued. Because this is the current thing that we have done in this House. This is said to respect the rationalisation of the project to EUR 1.3 billion and to make sure that it does. That's all. Those two things. And here you are selling out and exploring who everything and when and why and so on is connected to this investment. Focus on the subject of interpolation, and I'll be very happy. And we didn't get any answers back then or today. And only one answer is required: when will we receive a report from the Ministry of Infrastructure on the implementation of the 7th Government Decision of 15. 7 They should do something about it, but they are nothing. [[..]] Especially since it strengthens the awareness and behaviour that the management and control boards of TES and HSE are responsible for the situation on this project as it is – in all the suits so far. But it's done to find those responsible, and it's nothing. And once again, fighters for a fair Slovenia and for bringing the culprits before the face of justice, ignore the conclusions of your own government that it is necessary to determine the legality of the conduct of the HSE and TES companies in relation to this investment. It's a license plate. Your Honor, we've read the Public Procurement Act. If I had two offers before me, I do not define myself for any of them, but if I had two offers that are twice as different, even because of the arguments that there is no coating here at the end, at least, which would, even if that other offer, which is half the price, than the reputed tenderer, have repeated the invitation. And for this you have a basis in the law and in the position of the Group of Members, Mr Černač pointed out two cases when he did similarly act as if he had cancelled the call because he thought it was too expensive for him and the authorities also confirmed that decision. And here was a very interesting comparison of the minister with similar business elsewhere in the world. Look, I'm sure that the production of license plates is related to the economy of the scale, that the price of the registration plate produced in Italy, where it works for, I don't know, so many and so many million vehicles of the table, can be a different price table than in Slovenia, where it drove a few times less. And that kind of comparison is, of course, unrelated. That is why, in my opinion, this offer for Slovenia is relatively high. It represents it being lower than comparable countries elsewhere. You really haven't responded to the key things in interpolation here. One more thing. On this basis, I am confident that you will probably put aside arguments with some interpretation and you will express your belief that the minister is fine because he is yours. This is true arguments before faith are not taken into account, but faith before arguments. Just that it's ours, and it's okay. That's more than clear, and we just heard that from you today. Although I must say that I am very sorry that we did not invite the SD to sign the interpellation, perhaps we would add two more points and come together quickly. Because what I've been hearing from Mr. Han on the start, what would be nice to do in this ministry, which isn't done or started at all, I have to say I'm signing right now. I am glad that many in Positive Slovenia also think so, especially if we look at what is happening in Zasavje. If Zasavje has ever been treated so machetely as regards energy as in this mandate, despite the clear commitments made by political parties to this coalition, the devil should take me. Do you know what you wrote in the program on the participation of four coalition parties? You wrote it down under infrastructure and space, and let's see when it was signed. This protocol was signed at the time of the performance, somehow in March, probably in July it should be what I will now read. "In four months, we will prepare and sign a concession contract and design ideas for hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava." Now we're in January. They're just J's together, and the second one, the months are running. Look, it's not done. Now you're laughing, but when I was a minister, every few months we had to report on the implementation of the coalition treaty because the coalition treaty was something that brought this coalition together to work together. You probably signed this to do it, or to laugh when we warn you that this is not done. That's not all you signed. Let's read it a little further. You wrote that in three months, this is until June last year, not until July, until June last year: "In three months we will change the system of contributions to provide support for electricity production from renewable sources with the aim of charging the Slovenian industry with a 10% reduction in electricity prices." That's what you wrote. I must say, you didn't do it. Then go ahead, and I won't be long, I'll have another. You know, I like that kind of specific, not that kind of thing, we're gonna try to make it better. Such specific ones, for example: "In six months we will prepare improvements to spatial legislation that will simplify and significantly reduce the placement procedures." Six months was last August, Sorry September. Dear Mr Omerzel, except that you have put a moratorium on the demolition of black buildings, and that you have destroyed this miserable Kuzmich's house before, what has not been done here. And also, because there is a lot of this line, and there's a lot of things in each one that is worth mentioning in this field. Dear Minister, I expect you to do so, because these were very specific things that I mentioned to you to give me a concrete answer. Then I'll stop asking if you'll explain this to me, but you haven't told me yet. You started to explain in response about the energy concept, even saying that it was created in a closed circle. I think that the energy concept must be at least the result of one broader professional discussion, not some lobbyist document of this or that government, because then it will not have a long duration, and that energy is bad. In energy, it is very good that concepts are in some ways more broadly coordinated, but not in any other way lobbyistically oriented. I would ask you because we have a lot of time, and you also have it to explain these specific questions to me, first on business and then on this, you said you wouldn't make new contracts, even though you did everything you could to make two new ones. I am also interested in this first job, and I am interested in that study, especially the added value of that study and when we will receive reports on the implementation of the Government's decisions on 15 July, which talk about managing the investment in Block 6 – with concrete words answers to specific questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	I would recommend myself for a replica, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Braniselj, but you are not yet, because we have moved on to the debate between Members and Members on interpolation, you have not yet debated as a Member or as an individual, but you have represented the position of the Group of Nationals, so I would like to ask you if you can go through the debate when you are already discussing what you might have wanted at the time. Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you a word at this time, but you can gradually state what is, not on the content, but on the procedure that did not suit you. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you so much for that interpretation. My colleague Vizjak mentioned me quite a bit, but now, if that's not possible, he probably knew he could mention me, because I have no way of answering this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. Allow me, however, to make a procedural proposal to focus the proposaler, Comrade Vizjak, on really those dilemmas that are exposed to interpretation itself. As was the practice in the implementation a little earlier, I was looking at the hall, who is sitting in this Chamber and putting certain topics on the table just after those Members that he knew we would have a lot to add to his debate or, I will say, even from the minister of the department expected some response, but, Comrade Visjak, you know, that at this moment I am coming from Zasavje, that I am a great fighter in order to put Zasavska energy on my feet after this moment, I do not even have the opportunity to discuss. My procedural proposal is to focus also on the proposaler only and only on those observations that are defined in the interpretation. By the way, since I have some time left in the context of the procedural proposal, I must say that I am appalled at the way some people are moving and say that the mandate of this government, the government of Alenka Bratušek and this minister is, or that this government, if I understand correctly, has a machete's attitude towards Zasavje and Zasava energy. You know, it was this minister who drafted a law to correct the mistakes that were made under the previous government with Zuyfa. So I think it is right, even on behalf of integrity, that every debater discusses properly and respectfully what he has done wrong himself or has not done when he has the power, and all those who correct mistakes, those who have done in the past. Once again, Madam President, I ask that we do not go through the entire coalition treaty long and short of what this government has done and has not done in the coalition treaty. Last but not least, I believe that we all know that at the stage when the coalition treaty is also being put forward, and I believe that a number of things that have not been achieved in the first coalition treaty will continue and be realized by the end of the term of office. These are my expectations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Master Andrej Vizjak, you have a procedure, you will wait a while. Mr Marko Pavlisič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear interpreter, let me point out what point we are dealing with here today: interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. This point is not: the interpretation of Mr Sam Omerzel's work and responsibility before he became Minister when he was then the director of his private company. Here you specify what this Mr. Sam Omerzel was doing five years ago when he was a director and expand the debate on what kind of work he was doing five years ago, which has absolutely nothing to do with what is today's point, it is, interpellation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure and of Mr Sam Omerzel's premises. If Mr Just Omerzel is these cables as the minister together "loat," yes, then we can discuss it. But if that was five years ago when he was operating within his private company, I don't think that's part of this point. President-in-Office, I ask that if there is any further need for you to warn gentlemen about this at that time, you should stop this debate and return to this point. Mr Visjak has asked us to focus on what we should focus on in this debate. Mr. Minister, I urge you to also focus on the point that we have here today, so you don't just go out there. Otherwise, I would like to thank you here for the role of the lawyer of the coalition contract, perhaps even taking you to work for this purpose, but let's really, please, focus on this today, we have plenty of time, we can work this out in detail. That was my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Thank you to all those who have made procedural proposals. Let me explain once again that I am also trying to follow Parliamentary Practices as President, which has talked about the fact that individual replicas are also being carried out in the course of the debate, so that there is no misunderstanding. I agree with you and also with your comments that all the debaters, including the proponents, also the representatives of the Government, are holding and holding to today's agenda. The proposer of mags asked for the floor. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	I, Your Honor, in the spirit of these two procedural proposals, have expected to discuss things that are not in interpretation, that the President of Parliament would also warn the Minister, who, in response to the interpretation, has started to talk about the tasks of the Minister for the Future, what he will do, which is not the subject of interpretation at all. And there he mentioned, among other things, spatial legislation, energy concept and energy. You've talked a lot about energy, etc. In this context, I have also pointed to this. I think, however, that if this was allowed to the Minister in his defence of apparent interpretation, he could extend this topic to other important areas of his department, so that we can also do so by proposing. Nothing else, Your Honor! That was very interesting to hear from Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš. I have repeatedly observed the conclusions of the Sava region that so is the macho attitude of this minister to energy and to Zasavje, the conclusions of its environment Yes, yes. I don't know, obviously I'm more there than she is, I don't know. Mr. Pavlišič, we were not talking about "flying" cables in tunnels, because at least it would have some useful value. We were talking about the study. Studies don't say "lot" yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Minister Visjak, I suggest you focus. You're done. Thank you. I really wanted to warn you that we wouldn't have to politicize it. I propose to you, Commissioner, that you really try to focus on the point and not challenge other colleagues and fellow Members and Members, because unfortunately they cannot replicate you at this time. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Your Honor. If you try to interrupt me, then it won't end well, because we're going to have this session any longer than you think. That is why I will give you a warm advice, this is an interpretation, when I now come down with a single word or a sentence from the topic mentioned today either from the Minister or from fellow Members, but you can remind me. I haven't come by yet. And I owe Mr Pavlisic the answer that we should focus on the elements of interpolation. In fact, I devoted much of my time to proving that the minister had clearly intended to do two jobs after becoming a minister with Dars. This prevented him from doing so only by means of a media release and harassment of the public and, as a result, by the National Gazette, probably on those specific intentions and therefore did not conclude them. But when I mentioned the business of studies, I wanted to draw attention to the level of integrity and, last but not least, to the business ethics of these companies, from which there could be a lot of conclusions that I didn't make. But from someone making one such study for such money that someone "sets" 7 months ago after the contract was concluded, it's said to put the invoice back on, you're all witness to this man or this company. This was therefore still relevant in relation to other transactions, which fall within the specific mandate of the previous year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I hope it wasn't a threat. You've got a procedure, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	Just for a little while, because I really don't have another option, but I do hope that my friend Visian and I won't pass on who goes to Zasavje many times. I'm there every day, not the last time I live in the Rippers, and I'm proud of it. But I do know that colleague Vizjak likes to go to our ends because we are good and honest people there. However, it must be very clear to all that, in fact, all governments have denied support in energy concepts since March 2013, when this government swore or was formed, and I really believe and hope that this government will change its mind at the time, Comrade Vizjak, to take the first concrete steps forward. This is mainly because colleague Vizjak mentioned the conclusions of the Sava region, which is supposed to refer to the machete's attitude towards the government's suture energy. I have to say that I know the conclusions that have been adopted within the world of the Sava region. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Procedural, Master's degree [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	That's exactly what I'm going to finish. The three mayors make up the world of the Sava region. At the last meeting, at which the conclusions were adopted, we also took part, and we are aware of the content that was rummaging, and I think that even for the Minister of State, in short, for the Government. It is true, however, that we cannot be satisfied with the dynamics and pace of rescue, either with regard to the Sava region or with the members of the Savoy. But as we say, we are aware of this, this matter is not from today. My procedural proposal, however, is that Comrade Vizjak obtains the content of the conclusions that have been or have been adopted in the world of the Sava region. By the way, the three Zava members are also going to the President of the Government in the near future, where I believe that they will become more familiar with both the situation that is currently in place in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. You have also used a few procedural proposals for a substantive debate. He asked for a word as a proposal for mags. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	Just one explanation. When you know so much about who gave the energy permit for what, I would be very pleased to see that Mrs Barbrana Žgajnar Tavš also examines the archive of the energy permits issued for the Termoelectric Trbovlje, and will see that one of them is also mine. Such an indevelopmental attitude towards the energy facilities there is a little more difficult for me to rewrite than for others who have done absolutely nothing for the future of energy in this region. Last but not least, from the positive experience we have in the construction of the Lower Sava chain, I myself have been personally involved in establishing a similar concept in Zasavje. This is what I, as an opposition Member later in my power, could do, so I simply cannot accept these indications of an equalisation of the inaction of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The debate will take place between Members and Members in the framework of the proposed list of discussers. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar. Mr Franz Pukšič is prepared for it instead of Mrs Jasmine Opec and then Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, ma'am. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, to the fellow Members and to all Members present. Mr Vizjak, before I begin the debate, I must say that the first nail in the baptism of the suspense energy was also made by the law on the closure of the mine, which was adopted in 2001 and then none of the current members of the Sauvage Parliament sat in this national assembly. You, however, have previously praised the fact that you are already a Member of the Parliament, which is why I think you have decided at the time. But anyway, if we focus today on this interpolation. For me, interpellation is an important constitutional institution, which, unfortunately, has been turned by the opposition in recent months into an inquisitor for ministers working for ministers who are doing differently and better than has been done in the past. When I have read the readings cited in the interpretation, I find that for at least three points I should have a mirror with me and point it at the opposite side: to the gentleman in the first place or to the gentleman in the third row, to Mr Chernač and Mr Visiak. If we go in order. In the first paragraph, you read to Minister Omerzel the violation of Article 35, paragraph 5, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. If I'm very human and domestically speaking. Minister Omerzel told the anti-corruption commission everything and also filled out all the forms. We can't claim that to be your client's president. But what he didn't do is he had to report to his ministry, especially his head office, his name, his company name. Look, I think that the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space don't live on Mars or on any other planet, so that not every ficus, all the employees are aware that Minister Omerzel is the owner of the company and that business with this company is not to be concluded. So all sorts of conspiracy theories are your own and have nothing to do with what you've been saying. You're still giving him credit for making a new deal with Dars. The minister used to be an entrepreneur. He was doing something. And if a successful entrepreneur comes into politics, it's not right for us to get into a woman's policy, we'd rather be sent as a stove. There's nothing wrong with you in the SDS except when you're in power. But if you happen to be a member of a party that has broken your plans a little bit, then only God can help us. It should be quite fair to say that Minister Omerzel also earned this interpretation because he is Minister of the Civil Gazette. He's done more than he should. The anti-corruption commission made it clear that even if it had done business with Dars, nothing would have been wrong, but because of all these media attacks, it has decided to give up this business so that it can do in peace what it has achieved for its purpose or for the purpose of the ministry. Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption sets out clearly, I quote, Mr Vizjak: "The operating restrictions do not apply to operations on the basis of contracts concluded prior to the function of the official." If Mr Omerzel or his company had exclusive access to those weather houses, no one else could supply them to Dars. And if we fight about whether it was a new contract or not, the fact is, he didn't crawl for Dars, he didn't do a new job to get one new service or a new material for Dars. In addition, when you spoke and called for it to be threatened now, I don't know, by gliding or doing Darsa, by weather houses and by salinity meters, those guys working on the ground taught me that it was the same tool that helped track the road. One is used on viaducts and bridges and the other on the road. Now you're making a big story of a new deal, and I don't know any new contracts. Director Gurs' invitation. That's a very interesting topic. At the end of February 2013, your Minister Černač authorised Mr Seliškar to lead Gurs. Minister Omerzel has eaten what Mr. Chernač has cooked. I am not saying that this is wrong, but the power vested in them by the internal act of the organisation and the systematisation of jobs is something completely different than the perpetrator of the duty under Article 82 or 83 of the Law on Public Servants. And, gentlemen, the power is to be revoked. Mr. Omerzel didn't cancel it. However, if we have a doer of duty, we have twice a year to perform this function. And even if we use a reasonable perpetrator of an obligation in the exercise of authority, this provision is not provisionally disputed twice a six-month period. Point four. The cars are another skeleton from the closet. When the minister found out about another cancer wound within his department, he acted immediately. He acted as those who were already supposed to, namely, to impose exceptional control over the agencies, to that agency which should also exercise control at the 14 examination centres of Slovenia, and apparently is not, he introduced control of the Directorate and is already preparing legislation at the Ministry to prevent these anomalys from being made. And it seems that this speed or success of rapid action is disturbing you. Probably the same as in TES 6. You tell him he doesn't do anything, but on the other hand, I feel like you're a little nervous and you're afraid he won't do too much. Mr Vizjak, on the matter of TES 6 the second nail in the coffin of the suture energy. Most of the strategic documents, such as the financial plan, the HSE development strategy 2006-2015, the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023, the selection of Alstom and the signing of the contract for the construction of the sixth block, all of which was adopted when it was mag. Andrej Vizjak Minister responsible for Energy and also President of the Supervisory Board of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. The mirror you set for Minister Omerzel is a practical mirror for you or your client. Who first pointed out that we were misled by TES 6 decision makers? Minister Omerzel again. Apparently, some worry and hear that white collars in Slovenian energy are already unbuttoning their buttons because they are worried about a lot of things. Last, sixth reading. This is also a very interesting show, if I may put it this way, for the production and delivery of registration plates for motor vehicles and switching vehicles. Prepared, led, published – Mr. Cernač. Two bids, one bid meets the conditions, the other no. On 12 pages, the State Audit Commission explained and explained why there was nothing wrong with this invitation to tender, but the SDS is clearly above the State Audit Commission, which is an independent State authority. In view of all this, I think Minister Omerzel not only went with a shovel but with a bulldozer to do order and cleaning in Slovenian infrastructure and energy. Of course, some interested groups have also become overly stingy. But look, his job is to make order in this area. If I hadn't done it, then I wouldn't be the Minister of the Civil Gazette because the ministers of the Civil Gazette are working. For this reason, I cannot support this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. At this point, I can't give a replica to Mr Zvonk Blackach because he hasn't discussed it yet, but when he does, of course I will. I beg your pardon? [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't give it to anyone for the replica. Mr Braniselj had a procedural proposal and I said he could not replicate. You know, it's recorded in the magnetogram. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor in a procedural manner, and I ask politely that we stick to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Just like everyone else so far, of course. I presented the position of the Group of Members, so I have already discussed this subject and I do not see any obstacles in the process. But nevertheless, I'm procedurally suggesting that you also formally check these matters. In particular, because, in the context of the position of the Group of Members, I have made very clear the explanation of the two points on which Member Katarina Hočevar hung. I don't know if she heard me or if she's so grumpy, she didn't want to hear what I said. So that her colleagues and colleagues will not continue to repeat their inaccuracies, I say again. About Gurs. While I hear from her mouth that this power, which I conferred on Mr Seliškar on 28 February, is, in her opinion and apparently also in the view of the Minister, still valid. To this day, I have lived in the belief that all the powers of the Minister will expire as the Minister's term of office runs out. I believe that's true in this case. In this case, a new formal legal issue is raised, which is not so insignificant. It can have other consequences if it turns out to be. And I believe that's true. Especially when it comes to authorising the head of the body in the composition. I also told you why this authority came about. Because of the fact that the newly appointed Acting Director of the Gurs day after that, Alenka Bratusek here in this National Assembly announced the lustration of political opponents, if I simplify, resigned, and it would be unfair to the institution, to Gurs, to the future government, to the candidate in the final phase, to any one who would appoint someone at that time as Acting. As a result, the only normal solution was the authorization of someone who had already led this institution in the past. And the most responsible is that the new government would not be politically responsible. I believed that I had explained these things satisfactorily. So it is not the problem of Zvona Černač regarding Director Gurs, sorry, by this logic I expect the minister to have now nine months of authorization by someone on the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, if that is the case. It's not like that. That's what was called V.D. The law is clear. The appointment of the V.D. and the launching of the tender procedure, which was launched not in April, was initiated 18. This year's 12th. There's something similar about the plates. I believe the Minister does not prescribe specifications in public procurement. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	It's already a matter of content, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	In such a case, as was the case with the plates, I acted in another case. When we received offers that I thought were all too high to remove a toll station, I simply rejected all these offers. The same should be done by the minister at the table no matter who prepared the specification. However, the order was published 15. 3. five days before the expiry of the term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It was an abuse of the procedural proposal. Let me tell you, in Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that each debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, there is a replica in the round, if this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. The chairman shall give him the floor as soon as he requests it. The replica shall be limited only to the necessary explanation and shall not last more than three minutes. What am I talking about? I am talking about that you were not the debaters at the time, but you represented the position of your Group of Members. However, when we have the second part where we are talking about the debate between Members and Members on interpolation, it is also about the fact that you can have replicas. However, for a procedural proposal, it is stated in Article 69 that a Member wishing to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure shall have a procedural question that the President shall, as soon as requested, take the floor. Mr Branko Kurnjek has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, you've already answered it yourself. I would like to say that colleague Richard Braniselj today presented the position of the National Gazette and wanted to replicate earlier. You didn't give him the word or the replica, and you explained it to him. He also did not want to take advantage of or abuse the procedural proposal. I would like to ensure that the other Members, who have presented only the position of the party so far, do not discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Kurnjek. Thank you for your explanation or your emphasis, and I fully agree with your procedural proposal or opinion, and I will also agree with this country. That's why I want us to stick to the rules of procedure. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor as a candidate. Get Mr. Franz Puksič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	Yes, of course, I owe here some answers as a proposalr, in light of Mrs Katarina Hočevar, a recent member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am very glad that when the strategic documents on suction energy were produced, you were among us, it is said in the SDS and only then probably because of other higher movements did you join the Civil Gazette. So it is very interesting to listen to such a perceptive attitude toward SDS from your mouth, since we know who the greatest critics are — those who leave their own species. So, look, Mrs Katarina Hočevar, I think you have repeatedly stressed, and your President in general, that zero tolerance should be maintained for the integrity of officials and corruption. And just as you have tried to justify the violation of Article 35 of the Integrity Act, there is no zero tolerance. The fact that an official, a minister, forgets, despite clearly recorded standards, to tell his own ministry and to report to companies where he owns 100 % is not a trifle. This is the provision of Article 35 and the duty of an official. And even if it is merely a formality, this formality is meant for something, if not, not to be written down, and we cannot and must not do it, Minister, you also claim that it is a bureaucratic mistake, a violation, even you used that word yourself, yes, then any mistake can be a crime of a minor nature, but in the mosaic of integrity is ultimately this problem. [[…]] And indeed, your actions and some, I would say, announcements and resounding spells against corruption and zero tolerances simply don't go together. You tolerate some violation of the integrity law, which is beyond doubt, but the minister did not report it, and only in November did he do it, not within the time limit given to him by the law. And you're sorry. It's not zero tolerance, it's a very large indiscretion, and I must point out that. And more. You blame the employees so that they should see and know from his public appearances that it happened. Hello!Oh, my God! That's always one cleaning lady or one secretary then guilty because the minister didn't do it. That's the way it is. You even wanted to tell me that maintenance and calibration of salinity meters and maintenance and servicing of road weather stations is essentially one business. Either way, it's the same thing. Only I do not know why, madam, so far separate contracts and annual contracts have been managed both for each other and for the maintenance of roads through the contract. Although they usually followed the contract. At least this was the case in the case of one contract, specifically from 2008, of that study. I don't know if they also made contracts on the basis of the order to maintain the salt meters, but we never said that there was a contract. But we said that the minister intended to conclude a contract for the maintenance of road weather stations. And that's two jobs, you don't want to, you've always been, and probably always will be. HSE and white collars. See, as far as this is concerned, there is now a new broom that everyone is supposed to be afraid of and that is why everyone is shaking and opening the top buttons, perhaps it is also related to what the minister himself said he wants to rejuvenate Slovenian energy. That's what he said, I listened to him, and he didn't just say that today, he also told the directors of energy companies when it was the anniversary of an energy facility where he was present. He said, "It's time for my generation." Those directors were looking at him a little bit as thick as he thinks, but now he said he needs to rejuvenate, that is to say, it is probably necessary to replace these directors with new, young people, in a likely similar way to what has been done with the Road Safety Agency, where he has been given a fair political advantage, and this will probably be in line with some of the current practice of recruiting this government. Mr Luksic has already indicated that tight political personnel have access and that the doors are closed to everyone else. I'm not going to go to that school, and something has already been answered by Mr. Chernač. Also, as far as Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants is concerned and facility 6. Block. We do not report to Minister Omerzel, nor do we report to anyone in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the decision and the need to build the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj was a poor, unacceptable decision. I would have made the same decision today if 2006 was here and I had the same paper and the same behavior and the same predictions I had at that time on the table. I probably wouldn't have made the same decision if I had the same behavior about today's situation. But the economic crisis in 2006 was not predicted by the Nobel Economics Awards anywhere in the world, and this will also affect the energy market. Now to speak and turn into that mandate all the responsibility for what we are seeing today, Minister Omerzel, is to be misdirected. And that's really cheating. We to Minister Omerzel, I will do it again, and I will repeat it a hundred times, if necessary, we are only two. The first is that, despite the adoption of the guarantee law and the restriction on the top value of the investment, it has publicly said and acknowledged and has made it clear that the investment will cost more than 130 million euros. It's unacceptable to us. We believe that this investment needs to be rationalised and put into this framework. That's the first thing we read. This has nothing to do with the 2006 decision and no decision. The second thing we're reading is that he failed to implement the conclusions of the government, his own government from July last year. To manage this investment in terms of height, to even know how much it costs, he still doesn't know it today. It is still not known today that not all the bodies of the revised investment programme have been adopted and that an international, independent and professional review or review of this business has not yet been made and there is no way forward. Look, and please, let me understand, this is what we're reading to this minister, and it's not done. We do not tell him that this project is, I don't know, uneconomically driven in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and 2012. And you can't run away from what we're reading to him because what we said wasn't done. And focus on what we're reading in interpolation, not on what we're not reading. And you're setting us up, and you're always throwing some mirrors and some sort of obvious things about things that we don't even mention in interpretation. And then you tell us we need a mirror. You need it or read the interpolation again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Given that I am the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, there are only two sentences on this. Today, when the meeting of the National Assembly began, as you can see, five hours had passed, but I am only another member on the agenda for the debate, but I would suggest that we stick to the starting points that Mr Weber, President of the National Assembly, set up this morning, who said, "The contents of the interpretation is much wider, talking forward and backward than any of the amendments." If we deal procedurally today with what someone can and can't do, then things will go even further, more nervously and less connected. Of course, I appeal to you, the Vice-President, who is in charge of this, and who, as a matter of fact, interrupts Members and Members most of the time. I don't think that's necessary. So much for a start. Today, of course, the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, also began the work of Minister Radovan Žerjav in 2008. This meant, by no means, the interpolation event of today's interpolated Minister Omerzel when she spoke about the signing of the contract with Omerzel by the then Minister of the Slovenian People's Party Radovan Žerjav. Except that he probably signed a contract, something else or something else he probably didn't know. But there was no need for him to involve himself in this. However, the President of the Government has this way of working, because he first talks about my government, about my coalition, but when he continues, of course he looks at the opposition, and first he shares the obvious and slaps up, left and right. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, in your response, you will have plenty of time and, of course, you would expect to take some time and say something. Maybe tell us how much more expensive it is today to maintain these weather houses, stations along the highway, than it was when Tames of Ptuj did. Well, yeah, he's from Ptuj, who I know, including his activity with about 80 or more employees. How is it that Tames was suddenly no longer receiving spare parts from Switzerland? How come Tames wasn't picking up phones at the company anymore? Someone from the Ministry, who is not employed there today, said that someone in connection with Mr Omerzel's companies and the gentleman who was a minister in the previous government, who, of course, also concealed his assets before the National Assembly, had intervened. Well, I'd like to know what the price was then, and what the price was today after the signed contracts or contracts you had, Mr. Omerzel, was signed by you. So much for that. There were several speeches earlier about the Minister's forgetting. He forgot to give the company's address, the street and so on, in short, irrelevant matters, when he had already reported them to the anti-corruption commission, including his ministry. If you ask me, I think it's administrative nonsense. And here I agree. But that such administrative nonsense is mea maxima culpa Dr. Virant. He is the Minister of Public Administration and has produced many of these nonsensees in the public sector as well as I would like them in the municipalities. But he's obviously not gonna make it there. That kind of thing should be arranged. Talking about zero tolerance is stupid. Because there is no zero tolerance. She's intolerant or she's not. Well, technically, we understand that very well. It is necessary to amend or regulate such legislation. However, one of my places liked to say about such people that they were "fairass". So "fairies" when they see on everyone else great and every mistake, but nothing about themselves. We also remember how very principled and fair and flat shoulders spoke of lost signatures. How someone's guilty somewhere. And we don't know anything about that today. The same person took first the highest position of the National Assembly, today he is in that ministry, whose minister was also intertwined. But we also remember what happened to the chiefs of administrative units with the best recommendations, but they are not chosen. Or with some calls, three or four times repeated, there was no real candidate. How'd it go with some airline tickets? And so on and so forth. The Prime Minister of the Government said, "Leave us alone, leave us to work, our ministers have a responsible job, we want to do good for all citizens of our country." You could say I won't be rude, I don't want to be, "words, words, words" and a lot of dots, and then we'd be wondering when and where the action will be. You're doing something, that's true. If you intend to owe the country 7 billion euros in less than one year, this is a big job, a disastrous job. You have shown a great deal of yours in the adoption of budget legislation and so on. In all of this, you have taken no account of the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, craftsmen, farmers in short, no one. But I'm really waiting for your promise to hire 60,000 young people in one year. That's what I want to see. And if you're gonna do it, drop the hat. And I'll say I'll give you another vote for one term. But you've never done anything like that before. Mr. Omerzel, in your defense, you said that you were proud of the work, the work, the knowledge you put into it. I believe I too am proud of my work, which I do faithfully, in principle, honestly. But one difference is. Is it true what I said earlier that Tames no longer received certain spare parts, that they did not respond to phone calls and so on? Was there any connection to be found, or was there any connection? Some have them, some don't. So there is no equality here, of course. What you are doing right now in this government is morally highly controversial. Three things like that. One is the one we are talking about today in interpolation and opportunities to get and decide, then step down and so on. The second was the Minister of Economic Affairs, who ordered part of the subsidies to the company where he was alone. By the way, high standards have been set. What, then, are the standards for a member of the National Assembly? Can you do that? So these aren't the same standards as for the minister. I even think, I don't think, I'm sure the Members' standards are higher than the ministers. The Minister can be anyone, and the Member is only the one people choose. What we have listened to and also yesterday about culture, that the Minister of Culture takes one place and that in some institutions where he himself was employed. These are all, colleagues and colleagues, elements of corruption. It's not right, it's not fair, it's not principled. If you're doing it that way, then it's just phrases, "we're going to fight corruption," meaningless, and there's not going to be any bread from this flour. All that's going on is, I'll say, throwing sand in your eyes. Maybe I'll just mention Mr Luksic, the president of the SD party. Do you remember what it was like? Call for millions of euros. Who could have signed up? Just one, just for the Complaints. Today we know that this was a breakdown, including forged, fictitious contracts. These are also elements of corruption, acquired credit assets, etc. Right now, as far as I can tell, his wife got some kind of medical concession. This has also been reported by the media. You know, it's not like we're going to be able to send minds to everyone around and everyone in their position of power. The Prime Minister of the Government, when she was a member of the opposition, also said one thing, she was doing another today. If anything, that's not exactly the policy we should be doing. I will now present another problem to which Minister Omerzel is not responding. He's kind to the state. That's too bad. And again, people from the Ministry are involved. That's too bad. Why is that? Because they have their own interests. But this problem is not the minister's fault until point six, seven when I introduce it. But I have to start over. So I'd like you to give me a picture so you know what I'm talking about. And in the end, he's guilty of not responding. You see one yellow and one green line. Beyond the green, yellow and then purple lines, that yellow part, that's where a new road is supposed to be built. Of course, I'm talking about the Prague-Hodoš railway in Šikol, Pongrce. It started in 2001. Then, of course, Minister Omerzel had nothing to do with it. Danilo Vek was on the railway at the time, now on the road or was already at the Transport Ministry, he is one of the citizens living in this village. He's one of the guys who lobbied to build a green track. The green line meant buying land. The green line means if you look so fast, at least from that intersection of green, yellow, at least twice the length of the road. The Green Line means buying up all the land. Yellow means buying only about 30 square metres of land because the rest of the land is owned by Slovenian railways. The cost of construction is about twice as high. However, safety is greater in yellow than in the green line. It is true, however, that part of security, i.e. for a few individuals, is smaller, perhaps for nine or ten houses, because from yellow to purple it continues on the existing road now, and this is not exactly what Mr Danilo Vek wants, because he has the opportunity to get to the so-called blind street. There are a large number of signatures from this village against such a road. They wrote down why they're against it. And this. This second solution, along the yellow track, is possible, as confirmed by the designer who was at the said meeting. Of course, because of this double twist here on the green side, they're against because it's cheaper, the essence of all of this, why it didn't happen yellow, cheaper, safer, is a corrupt act. Those who had the power, that is, the systems that were employed in the ministry or still are — some houses get a dead end. I don't know, I don't have the data, it was done at the Ministry, and it was estimated at about 200 000 euros over the thumb. Mr Minister, how would you need these 200 000 euros to maintain the Slovenian roads that are in ruins? Well, these citizens have also turned – and now Minister Omerzel – to the President of the Committee on Infrastructure of the National Assembly, Mr Sam Bevek. Mr. Bevk himself wrote the minister a letter correctly. And the minister answered that letter. We know that the minister won't go to study it, that's what the jobs are for, and he's ordered the services to do it. Now I'm going to give you two papers on how these guys at his department did it. When the minister sent the letter to 13. On the 11th of last year, that is 13 November, they wrote to the Minister, I do not blame the Minister here, but I also speak about this in public because in 14 days the Minister did not take the time to organise, at the request of the Member, an appointment to sit together and to try to benefit the citizens, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in short all that he also swore in the National Assembly, to clear up. He didn't want to do it, and that seems arrogant and rude to me. All of you in those meatballs on that side should know that we're not here because of you, but that you're there because of us, because of those who confirm you in the coalition and put you in places. You'll be leaving sooner than we are. We go to the elections, get our confirmation for our fair or unfair work in the elections, and many come to those benches on other standards, which of course is wrong. And, Mr Minister, who is not here now, I hope that he will listen or that you will convey to him, your services have written, "If today," this is what the minister writes on November 13th, last year," if we change from green to yellow, the following should happen. Firstly, project documentation needs to be drawn up. Secondly, to obtain agreement on documentation, to make land measurements, valuations and land purchases." Once again, 30 square meters. "And for the fourth time, that road safety is greater after a solution from the State Spatial Plan," that is, along the green line, as variant in yellow, "is greater and therefore agrees with the Director's decision on infrastructure." Signature: Minister Omerzel. They made this for him, he signed it, and he didn't know when he signed it. But tomorrow, I hope he knows what we're talking about, and that tomorrow he'll call the director of infrastructure and ask him, "Listen, Loyzek," because I don't know what his name is, because I don't even know what it's called, "you, what are you already 13. 11. Did you write it?" "What did you write, Loyzek? 10.?" That means a month before. Signed head of the railway sector Damir Topolnik, prepared by Bojan Vogrinec. What, then, did the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space write to the congregation of Kidrichev? What did they write to her? Normally we'd expect these five, six points, what we'd have to do. That's not true. They wrote, as is in fact true: "Unless you provide us with the possibility of building in green, you demand that it work in yellow", but of course the municipality is not in fact much, "as long as you do not provide us with this, we will be forced to begin the activities of building a connecting road along the railway within the framework of the tolerances of the State Spatial Plan." And that's true. What they wrote here, what the minister wrote here, is a lie, but it's not true. That's right. And then they say, 'the substantive intervention, taking into account all the legal standards, is almost entirely carried out within the area of the State Spatial Plan and the land of the public railway infrastructure. An off-limit of the State Spatial Plan of approximately 30 square metres is required only on a private plot, number 513/1, [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] Sikole, it's an intervention in the execution of the interconnecting road embankment. Well, colleagues and colleagues, how should Members of the National Assembly then make a fair and correct decision if we receive such misleading information from the ministries if we receive it from the services. Once a, twice a. Of course, it's about who it's meant for and who it's sent to. Apparently, when it comes to some private interest, they will do all the work or you will do everything in the government not to take something away. Let me finish this story. You know, when I write a letter, an e-mail or something like that to a friend of Jožet Jerovšek or send him a text, I write to him at the end: "Franc" If I write to the congregation, to any company, to anyone who is not my personal friend, then I write to him, "Franc Pukšič, Member of the National Assembly". [[..]] Well, that's normal. And that's what I'd expect from the Ministry. If the ministry writes a letter to the congregation and is signed under it, "Beautiful greeting, Danilo", then they are some personal friends, it is on a personal level. But when I introduce you to him, your head's gonna hurt. So I don't know if Mr. Danilo Vek is a personal friend of Mayor Kidric's, I don't know that. But to write an e-mail to the Mayor of Kidric, and finally, "Danilo," it's kind of unacceptable for me to say. Once again, this Vek is home in here, he wants a dead end. On what account? Also on account of those mothers who have 180 or 184 euros in pension. At the expense of those who recapitalize banks. Of course, it's all about Slovenian corruption, because that's how it lives and that's how it can be done. Of course, the matter is mature, and that's what I said, mature for the National Investigation Office. Since they've turned to me, I'm going to turn the whole thing over to the National Bureau of Investigation. This is where the minister is supposed to answer. It's just a new story that's concrete and direct. Well, look what this high-ranking civil servant, probably has all the working hours, I don't know, I'm a little provoked now, in the state services, he writes to the mayor: "Please look at the agreement of the Kidricheva municipality to build the Rojk house. Does it really not say anywhere that, according to the decomposition of the State Spatial Plan, it will pass through his house by the bypass?" So let's give us, institutions, let's just now squeeze this little Slovenian, this little man, he's himself, he doesn't have legal services, he doesn't have an apparatus for himself, let's give him, he built a house there, he's got a building permit, he's got kids living there, he goes to work and so on. Come on, Mayor, let's have a look, or maybe we'll turn something around. This sends him a "nice hello, Danilo." I mean, if this isn't the tip of the iceberg, what's going on here is the problem with what's going on at these levels. [[…]] And, of course, the minister doesn't know, he can't know, but those who are subordinate to his system down there should warn him. If they don't, they don't do their job. And, of course, as a result, Minister, you will pay the price. Remember in Sweden, I think that in Sweden, when one of the prisoners escaped during the transport referred to in point (a) in point (b), I think from the prison to the court or something like that. I don't remember exactly anymore. He ran away. At that point, two ministers resigned, but they didn't know why he escaped, but two ministers resigned. This is an objective responsibility, and this minister, that you have ignored the possibility of talking about this subject, of course, I resent you, and you have no right to do so. Mr. Secretary, you have no right to do this except from a position of ignorance. Today there was also talk about roads. How long ago is the 27th not enough, that was Monday. My fellow Member, Tomaž Lisec, asked you about the roads. You replied that you are aware of how much money there is and "according to the current situation and what we learned in December is too little, but I certainly hope that we will arrange it." In your reply, you said that you had only learned about information with a problem in both the road and bridges in December. It won't hold. I have before me the entire document of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to Minister Sam Omerzel, on 24 December 2013, where they sent you: Consequences of stopping investments and reducing funds for the construction, maintenance and management of state roads in the management of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. This is on several lists, not a study on hundreds of leaves, because no one has time to read, tabularly, explicitly presented also in relation to bridge objects and so on. In short, a few sheets of paper signed by Ficko and Tomaž Willenpart, who prepared this. With this material you've been warned, they've told you what needs to be done. And then I have a minutes before me on 18 September: the consequences of stopping investments and reduced funds for the construction, maintenance and management of state roads, a reminder to the Minister. Minister, you have been clearly written here at the end that due to the lack of regular maintenance resources there will be a violation of the road law and the relevant institutions will also have to take an objective responsibility for the situation. With the budget adopted, Minister, you or I, if I were you, would be the undertaker of the Slovenian road system, so I would step down and not go. Minister DeSUS says, "we're leaving the coalition tomorrow if you touch the pension," and that stays what's left. But obviously you don't care about the road system, it's more important for you to sit in this position. It is even stated here that since 2008 these items have been neglected and things have not been done to cost 35 million in one way or another because the contracts have already been signed and so on. More about it, others. Let me finish. Members of the SD have already wondered in their discussions how we do not have a transport strategy and so on. Who is it already, as those three years of the Pahor government were called, who was then the transport minister? Mr. Wolf. He really didn't do anything, and he didn't bring the corridor of Luke Koper into Austria. Mr. Minister, there are some things you're going to have to answer, and what you're going to see in your interpretation is ripe for leaving the city of minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. It's Mrs. Novak's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary, you are most welcome! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for being a good entrepreneur, as he said in his work, with his knowledge, he came to such a company and was a successful entrepreneur. I appreciate it very much, I respect entrepreneurs who have created jobs with honest work, knowledge, the virtue of creating jobs, where people are employed, where they work and are successful. On the other hand, you wanted to be a minister. I think you've been familiar with all the rules or whatever awaits ministers who choose to accept such a function. Last but not least, the Minister was only in front of you for a few days, and you can see for yourself what can happen if you do not meet all the conditions expected of this function. Of course, no one is a saint, not me, not you, and there is probably no one here, but above all, I think it is never good to refer to former ministers and blame them all. Even when you leave, your work will not be finished, there will still be a lot of unfinished work, because some things cannot be completed, some you do not know, some will definitely remain behind you. Of course, it is wrong to put things down and close problems in closets on purpose and to create skeletons. But I'm not reading this, but given the law on integrity and prevention of corruption, we have to give all the officials what assets we have, what interests we have, what interests we have, and so on. That's what you say you did. Okay. But it's more than obvious that you've broken your given word so you won't make new contracts. And it is clear from all the documents presented today that you wanted to conclude new contracts and that you worked with a company that is subordinate to you. This, however, is clear that this is a conflict of interest, that it is a matter of clienteleism and that is why Nova Slovenija has already suggested that you resign. You might also have much less damage in the operation of your company, because now that you have not signed contracts, however, damage is done both to your company and to Darsa, who now has no other contractor or contract. It's a good thing it's not really cold. But I also understand the coalition partners, because Mrs Osterman has said a lot in her honesty. She said that if we didn't have two ministers, you didn't have one, and there was another one, and there was a third of them, and then the government couldn't work. Mrs Osterman also said that the President of the Government said there would be no more exams. The correctional exam is usually when we got the flower. Apparently, the minister's got it, and now he's gonna have the chance to take a retrial. Today, I would like to make a few words to the double criteria that govern our country, which governs our society. We keep talking about how we want to eliminate customerism, how we fight corruption, how we fight for responsible and honest work and so on, and we always find that, here in this Parliament, we are doing very differently or we have double criteria for all things. Just like now with the Minister of State. Some had to give up positions and functions for much smaller things. We have several Members against whom there was a great persecution and they had to move in the last bench for perhaps far more innocent things than this present interpolation or this obvious. I'm going to illustrate this with one banal case that's really banal, but it's real because I was there myself. When I was somewhere busy, we ate in the cafeteria and there the cook shared steaks for sympathy. So my colleague grabbed the plate to go with the steak to the table, and the cook yelled at her, "No, no, no, no, this isn't for you." And she took a plate and gave it to one of her colleagues because he was obviously more handsome, and she gave her a smaller steak. And she did, I don't know if she even knew it or not, but we all ate from the same trough, from the same resources, but she took the plate and gave it to another. So sometimes I have this feeling here in our country that one criterion applies to the other and the other criteria apply to the other. For example, when I was a minister myself, I don't know how many times it was written that I hired a driver whose mother is a member of New Slovenia. He was employed in confidence, so he had to leave with my mandate. Someone with 700 euros to pay. However, someone has employed in his office, we know, the son of an MP or someone has hired his son in the congregation with arranged invitations and so on. But it's nothing. Someone hired their chief of staff for a new one, brand-new in times of saving. When the KPK submitted the report, someone had to step down or there was a lot of pressure because of the report, and the breakup of the government, and someone was still in the same place, and worse, worse things remained. And these cases of black construction. Today there was a gentleman who had been torn down by that house, perhaps even by a congregation or a country or by someone who had built it, irrelevant, so to speak. There may be other appetites at the back, but there are still fairies there, not one, but there are more that are also black buildings, and they are still standing. So we also have double criteria here. Retirement. Someone always yells, "We don't give a pension", but he promised a thousand pensions, and they're not there yet, but they don't bother him that some of them have double pensions or pensions that they have not because of their past work, but because of their privileges. That doesn't bother him. So we also have double criteria here. Bridges. We've closed some bridges or we've partially closed them. If this were the time of our government, I believe it would be a major demonstration. Now they're gone, and we're just gonna put up with it. I hope there's money for these bridges too. That's how we do it. Someone drives drunk, even gets away from the cops, and he's a member of this party, a ruling party, and nothing happens to him. And so we pursue irregularities, irresponsibility, clientism, all sorts of things, and all of them, they just occupy such very important places. Not to mention allocating funds. What happened to the case of the Maribor castle, I'm just wondering how it's possible for someone who meets the conditions to be taken away and somewhere else. I have never done this before, but I will do it in this vote. I will request a copy of how someone voted, and every time I check with anyone who voted against the interpretation when they talk about honesty, customerism, corruption, I will check how they voted in this vote. Everyone has the right to vote in his conscience, in his own conviction, but I will check and see if it is true, it is against the persecution of corruption and clientelism. I strongly doubt if he will vote like this. And voice against interpretation is voice against honesty, against truth and for corruption, for clientism and so on. In this way, this government is losing credibility, as politicians, as political parties, that I am not talking about the Civil Charter, which is always saying that it has zero tolerance, and it is always getting caught again and again. And the opposition, we're guessing because we're putting in interpellations because we're reading something. I think that this government has all the options, has the votes to be able to do everything, you can vote everything, including a minister who worked corruptly or who did not respect the legislation. You can vote for anything. You are the greatest danger to yourself, in my opinion, so in this land of double standards there is double morality. Not to mention cases deleted when they've forgotten everything, and cases of war veterans for Slovenia when they don't belong to them, because they can't even prove medically that they have anything after so many years. Double criteria again. Let me conclude in the same way as yesterday's Reflections began by the leader that this government really works a lot, but most of all it deals with itself. I will repeat the President's words that this government is very successful, even the recorder is in borrowing credits and the biggest hole in the state budget that this government has made, this successful government. A bigger hole than ever before, the government in Slovenia alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Minister, you wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for your floor. I am pleased that, at least Mr Vizjak has returned, I am already afraid that the opposition is slowly despairing because their species have been very rare for the last half hour, and I will try to respond in the package to those eyewitnesses that came from the opposition at that time. First of all, Mr Vizjak, the connection to Darsa, the evidence and papers that you've been showing, it's very interesting how you fought in a fiery and scrupulous way for Dars, which is probably also because the President of the Supervisory Board is one of the prominent members of the SDS and probably comes from here with a little fear about Dars' business and their administration and perceptions to me about the attacks on Dars. What's very interesting is that you have all the copies of the contracts, all the business documents between Lastinsky and Dars, I have no problem with that, that's okay, on my part you can see all of these contracts. However, I hope that you have obtained this information and these contracts in a legitimate way, and of course I hope that you are aware of all this information you are telling the public that you are actually doing business damage to Dars. You're revealing all the numbers, all the information that Dars is paying for some service, I hope you're aware of the dimensions of this disclosure. Let's move on. Mr. Visjak, this is what I learned in this history, very well manipulated all the time, half-truths speak, and when it first serves, then there are still low blows, far, far below the belt. When he was talking about the magnetogram the day I appeared in front of you as Minister, of course he didn't read the entire sentence, even in the interpretation, if you look closely, they cut that part of the sentence that doesn't fit the opposition. That is how the opposition works, and as the leader of our Group has explained, I have made it clear that I will not expand my business with Dars. And when I talk about my business with Darss, the honourable Members and Members, I will stress again, I have promised not to expand my business and I have not. What I presented in the opening speech is being manipulated all the time now, the KPK Senate made it clear that I could continue my business to continue working with Dars. Still, I decided not to work with Dars. And what most opposition Members have repeated today, and they do not want to hear, is that my company and I have ceased our business with Dars. Once again, Lastinski and Darsa are out of business and will no longer be in business. We got the license back. Please let me hear this once in your statements when you keep telling me that we keep doing business, that I, as secretary of the department, do business, that I don't know what unpleasant situation I'm putting Dars in. Please, in the introduction, my company with Dars is no longer in business. Moreover, with the cancellation of this licence, it will never work again, because I will not allow myself to come back to Bosch and explain to them why I returned my license once and that I would like to return. I've given up this job for centuries. Please hear this and understand. I'm getting a 2008 contract. I do not know in what words I would describe how absurd it seems to me that the opposition is dealing with 2008 when I was the CEO of the company and when I legitimately fought for the business of this company. But what I'm saying at this point, all my company ever did for anyone, including Dars, was a decent job. We have done all the services correctly and have also been properly paid for. No doubt about it. The contract Mr Vizjak mentions that we have worked backwards, look, we for every service we have done, and whoever has done anything in the entrepreneurial world will be crystal clear to him, for each service we have an order from the contracting authority, we have an advance record of the services provided and we have jobs. Everything is completely transparent and clean, there is no doubt. Why Dars decided to use the contract we signed from the fifth month forward, you have to ask Darsa's internal procedure. I fought legitimately for business on the other hand, for what Dars put demand on the market. Dear SDS gentlemen, at the time that I signed this contract, Mr German, President of the Management Board, who was a signatory to the contract, and Mr Rigler, who is very well known, was a member of the Dars Board. And if there was anything wrong with that, these two gentlemen were signatories to the treaty. Please contact them. If you feel that anything has been wrong, please inform the relevant institutes. I'm sure I acted legally as CEO of the company. However, if someone has made a mistake in internal procedures and the Dars Public Procurement Act, and if you know it, then please take the appropriate action, even though this year was 2008. Of course, there is no need to mention that you were in the government at the time. I'm starting to feel like I'm going back to history. Yeah, how about I don't go back to history if they tell me the things that this team has done in the past. It is important that we look at the facts of history, but for two reasons. Responsibility must be sought in all the mistakes made in the past. I'm not saying that whoever does this is wrong. And what's important is the mistakes made in the past I don't want to repeat. And what has been wrong in the past, if I know these circumstances, of course, I will not make those mistakes again. I am sorry that Mr Horvath has left the scene, but I have met him as one well-groomed gentleman when I first entered this Parliament. However, what he was saying today is not going along with how I've known him to this day. Everything he said today has no real content. He talked about me still doing business, which he doesn't. I'm the minister. My company has its own CEO who drives this company on his own. And before that, I repeated that my company with Dars is no longer doing business. Mr. Horvat pretends to run the company. Please, that's how it was during the SDS rule. Back when Mr. Vizjak and the secretary and supervisor were at the same time. That's how they did it. Today we have a Court, a Slovenian compensation company operating with state property, and the Minister of State has absolutely no influence on the business of the company, and I have repeated this several times. 'I don't know why Mr. Horvat is moving here. I must say, he let me down with a statement: dirty business. Please! How can he afford to make such a statement? Dirty business. Underneath every level. The jobs that I and my people have ever done in the company have been honest, properly done, we have often done more than less, and we have finally been properly paid for it. That's why we have open doors everywhere we worked. And I will not allow such harsh words to be used and thus insult me and my employees because we have always done what is right and what is right. And even that additional disappointment, Mr Kuzmič was up there today, and they told me, because I personally do not know him, and that we are going to such a low level that one person's misfortune, and leave what was legal backdrop, a personally difficult story that one person's accident is being exploited for political points, I can't tell you what a disappointment this is for me. Mr Vizjak, you asked the Infrastructure Committee about the defence report. It's a misdirection on your part again. Be fair once and say what's true. You asked me if I could give this report, I made it clear there that I don't know if I can give this report to verify that it is of a very sensitive nature, but if we can give it, there is no problem. And what have we done, Mr. Visac? The next day we were in contact with the defence, explained that we had this issue on the committee yesterday, and whether we had a green light from them, so that we could put it forward. And most importantly, the defense gave us a green light, they responded positively, and we immediately put this report forward. Of course, Mr. Vizjak won't say that. The next day we put that report forward. Again one deceiving and conspiring and spreading information that has nothing to do with reality and the truth. Mr. Chernač also had some heavy words. I was surprised how intensely he cheered for a German performer. And I have to tell you, I, as acting minister, what I want to get on the tenders is as many offers as possible, valid, so that we can get the best possible service and the best possible offer for what the Ministry is asking for. On the question of Mr Cernač's parliamentary question on signature and decision. There was no doubt. That's exactly what I said, and they're using, manipulating and deceiving again. When I was on leave, the Secretary of State signed this decision. I really didn't sign it, and I don't know why Mr. Chernač is cheating and explaining that I signed it. Don't hold it. This was signed by the Secretary of State because I was on leave in August. But for the record, there's nothing wrong with that. I made it clear today what the State Audit has decided, what the Commission has decided, and with this procedure everything has been clear and I have finally signed the contract and I am behind it. As far as this invitation to tender is concerned, we know who wrote it. As far as the procedure is concerned, I, as Minister, had only the opportunity to conclude it and to respect all the laws in order for this invitation to tender to be concluded. When we turn a little bit to the readings about TES. There was much to be said and heard. I'm not going into the content anymore, because I think we've really been exhausted on this subject. What I can repeat is that, as Minister, I will continue to work with responsibility at the same pace, including as far as TES is concerned. We will not give in, even though it has been very much presented. But when Mr Vizjak tells me that we have not fulfilled something and we are talking about the days, I will fulfill him in the commitment of his government. Dear Members and Members, Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, was adopted by the Government of Mr Janez Janša, in which Mr Vizjak has always been Minister. And what did they write down? Listen well: "Building of Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, beginning of 2008, end of 2011. " Is there anything else I should add? And then they tell me that I'm late for what kind of obligations I don't know who.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. I am now making a procedural proposal first, which Mr Horvat has, and then Mr Vizjak has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of the fact that I have not yet discussed, I am unlikely to have the right to a replica, but in the context of the procedural proposal, I will propose to Minister Sam Omerzel, who is a distinguished gentleman to me and will remain a distinguished gentleman, irrespective of the fact that he has mutilated me and I have been abusing the abuse of bringing Mr Kuzmić to the National Assembly. How do you know that, Mr. Secretary?Oh, my God! You're just so brutally sitting on a Member and reading something to him. You're used to lying, Mr. Secretary! That's a lie you said. Mr Kuzmič came to this National Assembly alone before nine and made statements to the media and then I saw him. You know, Prekmurci knows each other, but I know half of Slovenia, half of Slovenia knows you, and from now on, the whole of Slovenia will know you, Mr. Minister. And look, I ask you to speak the truth in this National Assembly, Mr Minister – even when you continue to be Minister, even when you are no longer Minister. And I expect you to apologize. And I spoke, not in my own name, it's yet to come, but I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. For me, once again, you remain a distinguished gentleman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. I have to agree with you. In fact, your warning is more about me than it is about the one who runs the session. I should have stopped the minister because his words were getting harder and harder, but I didn't because the debate was very wide. Among other things, he said to Mr. Visionary, "Tell once what is true." If we take a closer look at this sentence and the words, they are very incriminating. That is why I am warning the Minister and asking him to be very careful and precise in his words. Minister, you still want a word because you wanted a word? No, no, no. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Dear Mr Meh, I have heard your call, tell me when I have lied, tell me once clearly and honestly, because I have repeated many times and highlighted when the minister is lying, and I will say it again: today and here. Look, one more time. I am already a Member of the National Assembly, but I have rarely used the word lie because it is a difficult word and I know that I can only pronounce it when I have clear evidence of it. And the minister lied again today, a little earlier. And now I'm going to show you where. You as Members can check this out because you have an insight into the magnetogram. The Minister said earlier that on the Infrastructure Committee, which took place about a week ago, there were exactly 21. On Tuesday last week, he said he did not know whether he could give the defence report to the members of the committee or not and was waiting for the green light. He said he didn't know if he could. That's not what the minister on the board said. The minister lied now because he said he didn't know. He didn't use those words. He said the following because I have a copy of the magnetogram. Minister Omerzel is 21. 1. 2014 said: "... that it is in the process of obtaining all permits, that this material can go forward and because of the sensitivity of the procedure...", which the procedure has not been clarified, and please, Minister, explain to me what procedure of obtaining authorisation. Furthermore, the minister said that he could provide this material and that he was advised by the Attorney General's Office that he was not yet in the press release. I quote: "Of course, as soon as we have a positive opinion from the defence, I see absolutely no difficulty in publishing this report." Dear Minister, these are quotes. I said a little strangely because the minister expressed himself so strangely. Dear Minister, what for one permit, what for one green light, such as you express yourself in traffic, you need the State authority to give the Members the documents. What is the procedure in progress, which procedure prevented you, and what did you get as this green light of yours to give us? Minister, what did you get? Talk to the President of the State Attorney's Office? I spoke to him in front of you, probably because I was looking for him early in the morning, and as a result of your conversation, it was, in my opinion, very substantively related to what I was saying to him, because as President of the parliamentary working body, I asked him whether there was any reservation that the members of the National Assembly would receive a report of the defence to the public. And he said there wasn't one. No reservations at all. No formal procedure, no law, no limit to getting me that. And you said here again today that you didn't know at the time, but here you explicitly said that you couldn't give it to us because it's distracting you or preventing you from having the green light of the ministry. That's the truth. Look, I believe that all Members of Parliament can read magnetograms, that it's written in a magnetogram, and that's unequivocal. But if we're going to fight about it again, what's in the tape, then God help us. And you didn't want to give us this back then! And you know why you didn't want to give us? Not because of some bureaucratic thing, but because this report does not say anything because you have not fulfilled your task, because you should report to Parliament, as well as to the government, on the legal or illegal conduct of HSE and TES authorities in the event of such Islamastics happening with Block 6. And this report, Your Honor Minister, is not here until today. And I ask you once again publicly, and please answer me: do you have a report, yours, the Ministry of Finance, or the State Attorney's Office on the legality of the actions of HSE authorities in the case of Block 6? You have been entrusted with this by the government to obtain it within three months. Today the government has been out of this decision for 8 months and there is no report. Come in. In your well-known manners, you've somehow linked what I'm giving you to Darsa's visa, like some kind of conspiracy SDS or, I don't know, anything. You even objected to us winning contracts and hurting Darce. Look, if these contracts were to be classified as business secrecy or in any way defined in the context of what you said, of course I shouldn't have done it. And I didn't do it because these contracts don't have any trade secrets or any marks. And I know, Minister, that you are probably ashamed of some of these contracts and that we have direct evidence of what you have done and how you have otherwise spoken or lied in Parliament. But the fact that you're attacking the possession of the contracts we have will not make it easier for you to bear the burden you have, and the weight of the readings that are on your account. I imagine revenge will follow. Today the coalition has promised to help you, because they have, I see, spoken in advance, read them, regardless of the additional disclosures we have made today, and I know that Darsa's control council will fly away in my own way in a relatively short time. Even though you're going to say you had nothing to do with it. Mr. Omerzel, I'm going to tell you one thing and I believe her 100%. And it's my opinion that I don't have direct evidence for. That you have remained a minister, you have also been "exercising" for one project, such as the Control Board of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, where you have included representatives of the Positive Slovenia and the National Gazette in this Supervisory Board and have deceived, of course, the Social Democrats, who have no insiders. You solved the old supervisory council, and this human resources solution was also one thing in this struggle for survival. Yeah, look, these are the sweet benefits you have after the arguments run out and when you need to protect your threshold. Now there's one more thing. You said the KPK made it clear that you could also continue to work with Dars as a minister who owns the company Lastinski, which has a contract. Even if the KPK said that, with all due respect for the KPK, but according to a healthy farmer's mind, I swear on it because it led from a variety of conundrums and not the last answer many times. Imagine that the district minister Dars is in his domain, and it is ultimately up to the district minister when a law related to Dars will go forward, what solutions will there be in such a law and so on. In short, one district minister over Dars, at the same time 100 percent owner of the firm that deals with Darsa, and you'll tell me there's no conflict of interest here. That is to say, without any reservation, you can do business here. If that is our legislation, and that makes it possible, and I believe that the KPK has probably taken this position out of the law, then God help us fight corruption. That the minister, who is a professional minister in a particular area, may also own a company that operates with a company that belongs in the domain of his department. Actually, Dars is under the Ministry of Infrastructure. It is true that he is managed by the Soda, later probably SDH, but in this confusion, when SDH is not alive, he is very, very attached to the Ministry's decisions. Very. At the same time, it can be a company owned by the minister, a business partner of Darsa. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission considers that everything is in order. Understand if you can. I don't understand that. If this is our fight against corruption, then God help us, and it's no wonder that everyone finds out that it's as much as you want it to be with us. And you, Mr. Secretary, said you would no longer do business with Dars. We're not talking about your sins after 5. 12. 2013, but before that. Before that, you wanted to do business and you did all the activities, you made an offer, you participated in negotiations, you gave guarantees for good business, you did everything. Here we've shown you all the documents, the papers, and now you can look at them if you don't happen to have them. You had a deal. Your negotiators of the company Lastinski negotiated with Darsa for the contract price for maintenance of road weather stations. They had a very strong negotiation. They negotiated for 20 minutes. They negotiated by 0.6% of the value of the contract. These are the negotiations that we are talking about integrity and corruption and so on. And you, Mr. Minister, are trying to tell me that you will no longer be doing business and that this is now. But you're ignoring the signs of interpolation. The perception from the interpolation is that you said at the hearing on April 2nd that you would not enter into new contracts, you still did not deny it, it is in your hearing, that you explicitly said: "I will not conclude new contracts if I am elected or appointed Minister of this Government". You were appointed Minister of this Government, you were planning to enter into a new contract, and if the media hadn't disclosed you and the public had accused you, they would have made a hundred percent. And you don't deny it either, because you don't deny it. And once again I ask you: "Would you like to conclude this contract or not, if Kanal A did not impal you on what and then also the Slovenian public and probably also your sacred National List. By the way, it's about the Civil Code. Look, this is really interesting. Your former fellow Member, Truda Cinderella, had to leave your species because she issued an operating permit for a restaurant over business hours, perhaps a day or two later. And because of the sacred consecrated struggle against such deviations in our society, she had to leave the seat of the Parliamentary List. Now tell me where the same vats are. Here you defend your minister, as I would say, a political province that has apparently broken it has lied to the Members of Parliament. He said he wouldn't make any new contracts, but he did everything he could to get it, and he would have concluded it, 100% if the media hadn't published it. Listen, you shouldn't. He submitted an offer, negotiated, negotiated the price, gave a guarantee for a good performance of the business, in short, made all the activities to conclude it, then decided, the data would be concluded and transferred to another [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	I would ask Mr Meh if you would calm down and not comment on every word, but if you would, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Listen, look, my dear fellow Members of Parliament. The minister said he always did everything right, everything right, and so on. I'm not going to say it's not true, but I'm going to say that I'm doubtful about the information that follows from the document that I have, the document that I've already shown twice or three times, and I'm going to do it again. When he worked and obtained a business in 2008, he made an account seven months ago or six months before he concluded the contract. If someone makes an account for a period that is not covered by the contract, and in this case it was so, then whether on the other side of the lunatic or has someone who is bribed, or has someone who is connected to it, someone must have someone who actually has an interest to freeze on everything he has, and does not see, sign and approve it. And who's that supposed to be? Mr Anton Žagar, who was later appointed as Acting Minister of his ministry, is today watching over investments in the Slovenian Railways. Does that hold up or not, that you put a bill up seven months ago? That you signed the contract at the end of November 2008, on 19 December 2008 you issued an invoice seven months ago, since May, you said so yourself earlier, and you only obtained a certificate in August. Hold it or don't hold it, I'm asking you directly. You did this business before you got the certificate. You charged the management of the flat-rate before you got the certificate. Take a look at this. The Treaty, which was signed, first defined the monthly flat rate of EUR 4 000 750 per month. You charged him for the period when the contract had not yet been in force and when the previous contract with someone else did not even have this monthly flat rate. These are the facts. I don't know, Minister. I'm asking for answers. I'd like specific answers. Not only is Vizjak lying, Vizjak is deceiving, he has not heard the truth from him. Tell me if that's true or not, on specific matters. I've got papers here and watch what you say. You'd just like to vote because you've decided to support [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid of something. I am afraid that if this Parliament is to continue to function in this way, we will listen to ministers who are saying something so that we will have to verify every matter, I fear where we will come. I've put my trust in the ministers so far, and I knew exactly what I knew was that if the minister said one word, and I'd been myself, by the way, I was a minister for over five years, I was holding on, and I don't know if you'd ever found me lying. I hope not. You didn't find me. I hope not. I just want to tell you that this is a practice with this minister, which speaks so little, up, down, here, there, some green lights, permits, procedures, no one knows which green lights, which procedures, which permits, we just don't get the papers. Look, we can't work like this! And you support, I see, that it will continue to happen. And I ask you how we will function in this House if we have credible ministers in this way. I don't know, I'm already so completely disappointed in what I hear. Otherwise, the will is slowly passing, because I see that a lie becomes a rule, and I wouldn't want that, really. And once again, please, let's at least try to pour some pure wine on this, not drink that cloudy turd.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	Madam Vice-President, look, I thank you for reminding me, because I have really commented and it is wrong. Mr. Vizjak said the Holy National List. Who gives him that right? And you keep your mouth shut and you run this choir here, where someone behaves like they don't belong in this National Assembly. You warned the Minister that he was talking about lies. Did you say anything to Mr. Visionary who throws so easily out a lie, a lie, a lie because it's allowed? Ladies and gentlemen, whether your claim was correct or not, it's none of my business, because I'm not a judge. But how you act here in the National Assembly is mine, because when you talk like that, you give me that accent that I don't want. By the time I entered this Parliament, I had a sufficiently distinguished reputation, and I do not want it to break down with such an act and also with words like that. Madam Vice President, be equal for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Meh, I have to admit, I don't understand your business proposal, not this endlessly impossible relationship, the World Civil Code, I don't know what's wrong with it, I don't think anyone was offended. If there has been, someone will say, otherwise you have misused the procedural proposal, so I must also warn you. Procedurally, Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the procedural proposal, I would like to thank Mr Meh, but it is good for us to be labeled as the Holy Civil List. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	So you confirm, I didn't understand Mr Meh's business proposal and I didn't know what was wrong. So I was right. Mr. Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Look, Your Honor, I'm not going to abuse you because I have the right to speak and I'm going to make amends. Now, if you're not holy, that suits you, then you're unholy. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Well, the procedure has begun, and I hope that you will not all abuse procedural proposals. Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I would just like to point out, here I would like to ask that we all use only the names of the Members' groups, the so-called Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the Positive Slovenia Group, the Parliamentary Group of the National List, the DeSUS Group or the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Group of the Social Democrats. Did I forget someone? Oh, the Slovenian People's Party, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, without unnecessary adjectives, and also the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	You have not listed everyone yet, we have someone else in this House, Mr Pavlisic, but first it will be necessary to discuss within your parliamentary group what we would like to be called. We will proceed with Mrs Alenko Pavlič's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Well, finally, thank you very much. After seven hours, while I was fourth in line as a debater. I will speak a little more quietly, because after all seven hours of shouting and shouting Mr. Visiank, when he cannot convince the audience with the strength of the argument, but he is convincing with the argument of power, I would first turn to you, Mr. Minister, and tell you that I am also extremely disappointed with the New Slovenia Group, because it has to date been considered an extremely correct party and a parliamentary group. As you have been disappointed by Mr Horvat, Mrs Ludmila Novak has only proved to me that she has run out of content to justify the interpretation under which she has so gladly signed. Mr. Visionary. Fighters for a just Slovenia, as he has appointed us, I inform him that I am aware that defence or attack is the best defense they, as a paramilitary, half-military party, seem to know this very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Madam Ambassador, how did you react now?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Please allow me to discuss [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Stick to what you're alerting yourself to.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Can I please say that if you were absent from the meeting when the President of the National Assembly said that interpretations allow for broader debates and everything we have discussed today, please allow me to conclude my debate. You were obviously not in this House at the time because half of you were missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Member of the Commission [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Whether you're having an argument with me or not, if you don't give me back my time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Please stop time. I've been following the debate, and I know exactly what the President of the National Assembly said. You too can have a broader debate, but stick to what you remind yourself of and do not insult your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	I protest that you interrupt my debate. I'm protesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Keep protesting. Time's stopped. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. You're very kind. If we go back to interpolation. As has already been mentioned many times, we are already at the third interpellation, and obviously we have already learned what the Institute of Interpellation means to coalition Members, the opposition is obviously not there yet, and obviously never will be. I believe that the interpretation that was staged by the opposition party SDS, where Nova Slovenija landed or stuck [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Mrs Pavličeva, please use the words that belong to the National Assembly. Slippers and similar indications don't have a place here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	I'm sorry, Madam President, but I'm obviously going to be able to protest somewhere else, not just you. Because what's happening today [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	With all due respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Because what you're doing today, you're only doing to me, to anyone else. Can I finish the debate, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	You finish, I'll give you my word, you can debate, you have plenty of time. As chairman, I want to take care of the right level, and I would like to warn you, please, remain on the level.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Not only does the investor occupy a media space with all the previous ones, which we know to be extremely expensive, but also with extraordinary meetings, which are so empty, without any conclusions, and with the requirements of the first examinations of the laws. He's doing this because he's buying a media space that's extremely expensive. We know that European elections are at the door as well as local elections. In this way, we gain free media space and spread untruths. I actually understand the proposaler, because I can see the water running down his throat, squeezed him into certain conditions for the door, and the president's strangling them, so to speak. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Mrs. Pavličeva [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	And she's unforgivable. [[…]] These interpolations [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	I am warning you, Mrs Pavličeva, and I am giving you a warning in this place. First warning. You may continue to speak, but you will have to consider that you are in the National Assembly and that you must maintain an appropriate level. Please stop time. Thank you very much. Madam Member, also by taking the Chair into account at the meeting, you are making your contribution to this national assembly and to your colleagues. Once again, please maintain the level and speak as you say about the content of the interpretation, not about the client, one or the other. Here you go. You need to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	I believe that Minister Omerzel is disturbing you, because by working his way out of the past, because he comes from a different environment or from there because so far the ministers have been politically oriented; he comes from an economic environment and is used to working. I believe that he is determined to investigate irregularities, leads to a difficult and extensive portfolio and is successful in doing so. But if there is any dispute with him, then let the authorities investigate it, not the National Assembly, not the Members. With these meetings, respected proponents or respected bidders, are you just wasting your taxpayer's money because you're stalling us and keeping us here so that we can't deal with other more important issues, such as raising competitiveness, worrying about health reform? Can you please calm the Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	If you make order in the hall, I'll tell you all about it. It probably hurts a lot because none of these things could be settled when you had a government. And we've arranged a lot of them in just 10 months. Of course, I will not support interpolation, as well as not all future ones already foretold, because they have only one goal, to overthrow the government of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pavlich. A very constructive contribution. I can't help but mention it. Mr Ljubo Žnidar is next. Here you go. My apologies, Mr Žnidar, Mr Tonin, had already asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I must protest Mrs Pavlic's brutal attack. I think that similar statements and similar performances are not necessary and merely undermine the reputation of this Parliament when they give the impression that Members are only arguing, fighting and not doing anything smart. I think your phrases were inappropriate, overstepping that we "slipped". I think that expression is completely inappropriate. We were invited to the interpolation. We supported this interpolation because we are assessing that it is on the ground and perhaps the most justified in this mandate. To use the grave expression of how your colleague's fellow Member 'enclosure' debated, I think she correctly represented her views. And such discussions as you have had only deepen the differences between the coalition and the opposition and prevent us from taking any important measures for the future of Slovenia in the future; as you know, such discussions increase the mistrust between the coalition and opposition Members, which is very bad. If you judge the attractiveness of each party on the basis of whether it agrees with you or disagrees with you, then probably New Slovenia will often disagree with you and will therefore be an unsympathetic party. This is a matter for each individual, how and in what way he appreciates benevolence. However, I would like to see you overcome a slightly more cultural and mentioned debate and that this debate of yours today was unnecessary and there is no better culture and has contributed to no progress in Parliament. You have reported to this opposition that it is only by interpolation that it restricts and makes it difficult for this government coalition to work. You had a very simple and simple solution – you would give up the minister who is burdening your government coalition. The solution is very simple. The President of the Government would have resigned to the Minister, the National Gazette would have appointed another minister, and your government coalition could have acted smoothly with the work. This is how we talk today about the work of the Minister, for a long and broad discussion of the subject, and there will always be a certain doubt over the Minister, which he will never be able to wash again. Whatever he's doing in the National Assembly, everyone's gonna be watching him. We'll be looking at him in a position slightly lateral. And especially because our country is facing important challenges, the government coalition should relieve all these backpacks that prevent you from running faster to the final goal. And Minister Omerzel, you want or don't want to make your backpack difficult. I think my colleague Brultz described it most perfectly when he said, "That's some bullshit, let's vote, let's go." What did he say with that, at least I think he said it. He said that the arguments of the treaty that you are presenting here do not interest us because we have decided politically to support Mr Omerzel. And that makes it seem like a complete waste of time to listen to your arguments. Let's vote, support Minister Omerzel and go home! But I'm asking you then, coalition MPs, what's the interpolation institute? Is it not intended that the opposition is trying to present to you the arguments and reasons why we oppose a minister and why we are proposing to get rid of him? On the basis of these arguments, you will then decide whether or not to support this Minister. But with your discussions, even a little nervous and nervous, you only prove that you are politically determined today, how you will vote, and that no arguments are of interest to you. I think colleague Vizjak has made an excellent, phenomenal presentation of all the facts. He didn't speak up, he did things he said, he backed up with contracts. And the answers or counterarguments he got were not how and how we're going to get rid of these obviouss, but the problem was how these contracts came about. So it was the one who revealed the sinner, not the sinner himself, if I speak a little in parable. Minister Omerzel has engaged in tactics that may be very effective in the field of war. He's defending himself with an attack. And today, virtually in his defense, he attacks all the time by blaming the ministers in front of him or more or less by saying that all things are unfounded and unfounded. Sometimes he's pretty grave in his attacks, but he doesn't answer the questions he's asked. I am sure that the Minister would answer the questions raised by Mr Visionak with a "yes" or "no", with a few sentences at the same time, in order to exhaust him very quickly and also prevent Mr Visionak from continuing to ask the same questions. If you could give me exact and precise answers, you could close this debate very quickly and save me more than half the time. So another argument when you say that it is all the opposition's fault to waste your time; even exact and precise answers would help to reduce this meeting considerably. Minister, you said you quit your job. Even certain promises you made at the hearing. But if your interest and purpose were to be so, then you would have done it immediately at the beginning of your term, not only when you were exposed to the public. Perhaps you can use the example of an American finance minister who served in the days of George Bush as a precedent or direction. When he became a finance minister, he sold all his shares in a large financial conglomerate and only dealt with politics. I think it would also be good for you to decide whether to go to an entrepreneur or a politician because of the sensitivity of the moment. You can both go at the same time, but then you have to be aware that you can't do business with the country. And what else does Dars represent, or not a country? However, Dars is 100% state-owned. There's a lot of dissatisfaction in the halls over your explanations, over everything that's been going on around you. But in a way, the coalition has decided to maintain its current position, the current political picture, because perhaps your replacement would be quite dangerous. Even before this affair began, your president, Minister Virant, said that the Civil Code would not give any ministers. She already had to give one, one former minister was prevented from participating in that government or he himself refused to participate because of the policy that this government represents. I'm going to be very exact so that no one in the Civil War can tell me that I wasn't being precise. It is understandable that the resignation to resign to another minister may drop over a edge that this party could no longer digest. If this party has problems, then it also means a kind of coup against the government coalition, because the government coalition is now composed so that any party breaks down, sinks or otherwise makes it impossible, the government coalition breaks down. And that's why I'm going to say, in a way, I understand Minister Omerzel that he's being scrupulously defended because it's important money, it's important business. But I don't understand a government coalition that's willing to support these things. And here it is crucial and essential what the government coalition will do, because by voting on the support of Minister Omerzel you will in some way take responsibility objectively for all that is evident to the Minister. You know, it would be fairer and better for you to simply say that you support Minister Omerzel because you want to ensure the existence of this government coalition in the future. We would politically understand you, not try to find some hair drawn arguments to attack us and in some way defend the minister. I think it would be much better, even for our relations, between the coalition and the opposition, that you might say, on your coalition side – with what Minister Omerzel did, we do not agree; we think he was doing the wrong thing, but unfortunately we tell you, colleagues, brothers in the opposition, that we do not have any other options than to support him, because we are still putting higher value on the existence of this government coalition than the problems of Minister Omerzel. If you said that, I'd understand you a lot easier and better. However, as we are now hearing discussions on who is more responsible for the past situation, this is just another one of the additional debates that will not contribute to anything in order to raise the reputation of this house. I'll finish here for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, do you have any comments? Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Then I'd like to ask you to comment more quietly because you're very receptive. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! I must say, unfortunately, I understand the low level of debate between coalition Members, interlocutors and so on. I believe that there is anxiety in them, and I believe that they have set themselves a value, that Minister Omerzel must be kept at all costs, regardless of the consequences, regardless of his actions, whatever his suspicions, such and other, regardless of his untruths, which are more every day, in short, to go over everything. Moreover, in your debate you are trying to cloud today's topic. Today, the fog is both the response of the Minister, who avoids it and its political parties – the Civil Gazette. Creating such a fog that I don't know if they're going to close the highway soon, such a fog is in Slovenia today, and such blurring is by the Minister and the National Gazette. I believe, and I can see why you're so nervous today. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, as well as viewers in front of television screens, will not today expect any response from Minister Sam Omerzel, you will not get an answer. For on the arguments, on the facts put by Mr Andrej Vizjak, I believe that the Minister has a great problem. And I am very clear, and I do not expect any answer from him today. I am very pleased to have, in my professional capacity, a new fellow Member from the National Gazette, Mrs Katarina Hočevar. I'd say she's very well-trained or she's learned a day or two before interpreting the construction profession in defense of the minister. And her statement that the Minister is working. But when I look at the assignments, what exactly is the minister's job, what is his job? But when I put my things on paper and look at what tasks the minister did. Last year's 15th. 7. His government ordered him to prepare an answer and initiate all procedures concerning responsibility for the construction of TES. The minister said he wasn't responsible for this investment. I agree with him. That answer is correct! But he did not perform the task of initiating procedures to determine the responsibility that led this investment in one way or another. This task has not been carried out; it has not carried out a task to determine what the level of risk of this investment is today. In my opinion, Minister, the investment of TES is a level – extremely high risk. The state has given its guarantee, which is now under question or question. He'll be questioned tomorrow. The question is whether this investment will sink HSE, TES and Velenje lignite mines. These are very high levels of risk. And you vehemently with this task, with this question you do not bother at all, you have not performed this homework. I'd like to ask myself what you've done with the other tasks in the field of the Ministry, in the premises. Then I wonder what you did to the transport corridor strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. We know there's been a bit of a blur in the past, something that's been successful, not to say five minutes past twelve, set up. You have met with the Croatian Minister, who is extremely hasty, intensively planning railway corridors. He works very intensively with the Republic of Hungary and Austria; Slovenia is nowhere. It's like we're not interested. Croatia intensively builds, renews, upgrades, increases the port capacity of Luke Rijeka. This has a very important impact on future traffic flows, she's our first neighbor. We need to talk to our neighbor, we need to follow her, we need to coordinate. Minister, this year there was no one on your side. It is also necessary to cooperate with the neighbouring country of Italy, and it is necessary to meet with the Minister of Environment and Space in order to harmonise the environmental agreement for the construction of the second line of Divac-Koper. Consent alone will not come overnight; it is necessary to agree; it is necessary to coordinate; it is necessary to be constructively with one another. Then he's here, I'd say, unprofessional concern for his department. I highly doubt that the Ministry's professional services have proposed such an enormous reduction in investment maintenance funds at the Roads Directorate. For 90%, this profession has not been advised, Minister – this is your decision. But I now conclude from this that this was a very well-thought-out decision. This is a very good reason why Mr Ficko's former director has given up, logically. Pick up the money and then do it. That's the way you picked it up. It's perfectly logical that the director resigned, because without money there is really nothing to be done. Minister, as I am discussing here today, I believe that now that you have brought the new director back to this place, you will return the funds to this item. And I'm gonna ask you again after a year if that's not the case. Instead of being economical, rational; you burden citizens. In both cases, you burden them once more than you could, both at the price of the board because you have deceived, you have confused the price of the tables across European countries. Why haven't you mentioned their wages yet? At home, however, you had a 100% cheaper offer. You had that jurisdiction. They would cancel the invitation to tender and all citizens today would have 50% cheaper boards than they will actually have. Then here's the energy card that you made a real family in the Energy Act, and you raised the famous price as if it were a professional document. In fact, it's a collection of design data. But the citizens will pay for it, and pay it high, pay it dearly. And for that you have prepared a legal basis in the Energy Law itself. And even your suspicious, I would say, business both in the past and in the present, there is a certain suspicion. And I don't know the case of a minister getting a job in his department or doing business. And I would like to express my thanks to the media in this place for preventing two things from happening here. First; they prevented that after a concerted contract, they agreed that you had not done the job, that is to say bad two months ago, when you were already a solid minister, thank you to the media. Then also thank the media for exposing and preventing when you appointed a traffic director at your ministry, who had complaints or who was, to say no, your Godfather in preparation for your business at Darsa. This has failed you, but you have succeeded in taking care of this frame and today it is the leader of projects to optimize major projects on the railways. It's not much of a pretty good job. In short, there's a lot to take care of. Minister, there are a lot of things, but that's not what I'd say, those talkative political ones, but here are the facts, here are the documents. I'd like to, because I made myself a list of "Minister of Work." I'll ask a simple and brief question. Minister, just tell me one task that you've done at this time. Just one. You don't have to do that. Only one assignment from your performance to this day, which you have prepared and performed at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. It's Mr. Bevk's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The House of Honor! The minister has government support and has coalition support. This has been said many times today. Today, the Minister was also made clear about the poor state of the state road infrastructure, especially on the main and regional roads, and the lack of funds for the reconstruction and maintenance of these roads. If there's anything we can't report to the minister, that's the point. Look, we have 6,000 kilometers of main and regional roads in the country. We have 2 000 483 bridge facilities that are more than 3 meters long, although today traffic is hampered on 15 bridges due to partial closure. But the minister's fault is not one year's worth of state roads, not one year's term has passed, and we really can't tell. I think that this is the responsibility of all governments after their independence, especially all governments, to build the highway cross; state road infrastructure, and certainly no one or much less than it should have been. Between 2008 and 2012, more than € 210 million were taken away from the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and left and right governments, all of which were listed at the time. I think everyone is responsible for the poor state-of-the-art road infrastructure. Today we have only 35% of the main and regional roads that are in good or very good condition. Last year's exceptional winter, more than 82 million damage to state road infrastructure, also caused great damage. If we count local roads here, this damage increases to more than 200 million euros. The cost of winter service alone was estimated at 32 million in last winter. When I speak of a specific congregation from where I come from, in Idrija we have given for winter work in last winter as much as for all social activities together — for education, culture, education, social and health. Things are very problematic. Before that, I mentioned the highway cross and that success that was made, whatever we're looking at. When this highway cross was built, I have the feeling that no one is interested in other state-owned road infrastructure, perhaps with the exception of the Ministry and Directorate for Roads, which in the governments of the past 6.7 years do not have enough support, but also for most, unfortunately, Members and Members of Parliament, not the last 3 mandates. I almost don't remember any of the Members and Members in the budget debates putting in some kind of road amendment, but sometimes there were 100, 200, 250 amendments to the state road infrastructure. Nobody does that anymore. We are all responsible for this situation together. When answering my question on Monday on the issue of the 4th development axis, the Minister announced that they were preparing a resolution on the national transport infrastructure programme in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's very good that the minister announced it. If that works for him by the end of his term, I'll congratulate him. Indeed, no one in the country has yet been able to prepare a national programme for the reconstruction and maintenance of state roads. No transport minister, no government. We only used the highway cross. Only a few state road infrastructure projects are covered by this resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. Here I am referring to the development axes: 3, 4 and 3a development axis, but not all state road infrastructure. Minister, I would like this resolution prepared as soon as possible to come to the National Assembly, to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, and to receive support for a more intensive solution to the problem of building state roads as well. And I would like to, but I don't know if this is going to be heard in the coalition, to draft a gas bill and thus provide funds for these projects. Something else has been said before or reported to the coalition that we do not stick to the terms of the coalition contracts or the coalition treaty and that something was not done within 4 months. Well, I mentioned this resolution earlier. There are schedules here, and I'm not going to read them. There's 35 of them, almost half of them have passed. This has happened in all governments and some of the timetables in the coalition contracts are not correct, I think. Only one painting case, the Sydney opera began to be built in 1958, was completed in 1973. Or a better example, the famous Sagrada Familia, in 1882, began to build it and is still not completed today — but these are the greatest sights in the world. I hope that any of the projects contained in this resolution will be as real as it was, even if it was built some year later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Visjak as a motioner and then Mr Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The perceptions of the interpellation candidates also went that, despite the clear records in the coalition contract, this coalition did not implement a number of important projects for the Slovenian economy and for one region, specifically Zasavje. We have read that within 4 months of the conclusion of the coalition agreement, no concession contract was signed for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, as you wrote down. And we have seen that within 3 months of the conclusion of the coalition agreement, the economy was not burdened by 10% at the price of electricity, as you also wrote down. These are relatively short deadlines, probably when the coalition signed this coalition contract, it was aware of the short deadlines for this implementation, and it probably had the solutions already to do so because such short deadlines are not given. And that's why we read that she didn't do it. And even today, there is the same coalition in this place, and we have been a few months away from these final dates. You, Mr Bevk, have shown a resolution of the national projects adopted in 2006 and in force until 2023. Most projects start somewhere in 2007, 2008 and last 2010, 2011 and 2012; some even longer. But, Sir Bevk, in 2008, your government, the government of Borut Pahor took power. And she is probably also responsible for failing to comply with any of the deadlines set out in this resolution, because she has never taken this resolution off the agenda or annulled it. So wave with responsibility to the government of Janez Janša, who has been alive for two years in the life of this resolution, which is still in force today; and your government for three years thereafter is nicely said to be incorrect. The Government of Borut Pahor and the Social Democrats, as a portent of the former Government, are also responsible for the implementation of this resolution and for the delay of some of the deadlines set out in this resolution. But if we shake hands, it's good to stick to them. Otherwise, let's not give them to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Mr. Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak would be good for the Head of the Disciplinary Commission in Parliament. That would even be legitimate, and I would support him because he's remarkable. However, there is no legitimacy to be or to play the role of the Head of the Disciplinary Commission in the government. What am I talking about? First of all, it was a problem that the Minister did not respect the conclusions of the National Assembly. And then he changed his mind because he realized that they weren't bound because they were just recommendations. And now the problem is that the minister did not respect the government's conclusions. Government conclusions are a problem for the Government and the internal relations of the Minister, the Ministry and the Government, not this Parliament. I would therefore suggest that we leave these decisions to the government and their internal situation. If we go to the next detail. The Minister made it clear that he would not sign new contracts and would not extend the scope of the operation. This part, it's not going to expand the scope of the business, you're missing out. And now tell me where the minister expanded the scope of the business, which he even reduced to zero in the end. However, as regards the signing of new contracts, the Minister made it clear that his quote made it clear that he would not open new transactions. 2008 some transactions started and were renewed annually, contracts were renewed and so on. And it is not properly interpreted as a new business, even though the new agreements were concluded. These are transactions that have started in 2008 and have been renewed every year. The minister had this in mind and it was clear to all those who sat there and listened; but he did not extend the scope of the business, which you want to keep up with and want to trouble him. In 2008, the Minister was a long way from being a minister, a simple director of a company, and not with the help of his ministerial position came to this business, but he got them on the market with his competitiveness, we are talking about 2008. And then you read to the minister some lack of integrity and you're developing some theory that someone was supposed to pay an invoice on Dars that wasn't properly invoiced. So what's the problem with the one who pays, or the one who issues the invoice? On the other hand, we're going here to dissect some bond relationship that we don't even know what was going on at the time. If you have reason to doubt these matters, file a criminal complaint, you are obliged to file a criminal complaint, the act is not obsolete and the matter should be processed if there is anything on it. You mentioned the minutes of the negotiations earlier, and you keep them in front of you all the time, and you're saying that there were some negotiations. Please tell me if the Minister has participated in these negotiations, tell us where the Minister's name is when these negotiations are to take place. It's perfectly normal for the company to continue operating. Previously, a colleague of Horvat spoke about shutting down his company in his integrity. It was not specific as to whether it was s. p. or d. o. o.; from a status perspective and from company law there is a huge difference. S.p. is tied to a person and shuts down; d.o.o. does business his life forward in legal traffic, replaces the director, whatever. And I would like my colleague Horvath to explain this to us that we then know if this is the same thing, whether it was different things or if my colleague Horvath was misleading. The opinion of the defence, in which the problem is that this government has ordered this opinion, has received it and is what it is. And the minister and the government can't help each other. But it would be better if you didn't order it at all, or what the problem is now. What's the problem now? And if any irregularities have been detected in terms of civil matters, that matters have been null and void, whatever they may be, here I am not interfering with the expertise of our defences, which we would expect to examine in detail these matters, but then to draw some sequences. And with regard to these sequences and findings, I do not need to be informed if it is necessary to react, to react to the defence or the authorities responsible – police, NPU, the prosecution and so on. The Public Procurement Act. Before that, a colleague of mine said that he would have done things differently. For objective and substantial reasons, he would cancel the invitation to tender. For objective and substantial reasons, I would cancel the invitation to tender! Now let's see what article 80 of the Public Procurement Act says. The contracting authority may terminate the procurement procedure at any time before opening tenders. Before we open! There's already been an opening here. We've had offers on the table. So this procedure was not possible. There was no will or reason either. Nevertheless, it may reject all tenders, and in the same case it may carry out a new procurement procedure where circumstances have changed significantly, which has led to the rejection of all tenders. If circumstances have changed significantly. And go ahead. When it comes to these substantially changed circumstances, the law says so. Where the subject matter of a contract no longer needs or does not have the resources provided for it, or if the contracting authority has reasonable doubts that the content of the contract was or could be the result of the crime committed or other exceptional circumstances have arisen. What exactly is the reason for the hair attracted here? I don't see him. And if I had a colleague, Blackwig, so much more money, I'd go down into it by knowing what that means. It can mean different responsibility, damage to the country and so on. And one more thing. You know, we need to be careful about this, because then we look incompetent, unprofessional and ridiculous. We cancel the invitation to tender if we are approached by someone who does not like us, or God forbid, if our favorite is not chosen or if he has a weak offer. Let's not play with public procurement, we already have a problem in the performance phase and I think that the Minister's conduct was the only right, not the minister, the commission. Such conduct is also legitimate in the decisions of the State Audit Commission. And one more thing, Comrade Vizjak, is not right to mention the names of our Members after carefree. It's not about the same things, it's not about the same things. I would like to operate as little as possible on specific matters as we know them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Dear Mr Branisel, I must respond to your allegations. I believe that you are disgusted that we are discussing specific matters, including concrete actions in similar cases on your part or on the part of your President. Why? Because Mrs Truda Cinderella was a member of your party and she had to leave your species because of your principled posture, if you also did not allow small offenses in your own kind and that you would set an example for the world in the introduction of high standards in Slovenia. And what is Mrs. Truda Cinderella? From the media posts – I met this lady when she came to Parliament, I found that she had issued some kind of permit to extend the working time for the restaurant as a member of the administration. I said, okay, these are very high standards, okay, okay. Then, with time, it is complicated, including the existence of this coalition and your principled insistence, there is the case of Mr Sam Omerzel, who has clearly stated not only that he will not spread the business, but also that he will not conclude new contracts. And since Mr Omerzel said that we are always out of context, they only have part of the statement, I will read the whole paragraph of this magnetogram. Mr Omerzel literally said: "The second work that is connected to the country – the first is that Eureka for €75 000 – the second work that is connected to the country is our share with Darsa. Lastinski has maintained road-time stations since 2008, and this contract has been implemented since 2008. And as far as working with the country is concerned, we must respect these existing treaties. We will not increase the scope of our operations with the country and will not sign new contracts in the event that I am elected Minister." I read it correctly. This is said not only not to spread the business, we will not sign new contracts either. Minister Omerzel did everything, not the minister, sorry. The company, 100 % of which owns Lastinski, has done everything to obtain a new business for the new year with a new contract for the maintenance of road-time stations for 2014. It therefore submitted an offer or responded to the invitation to tender. That's what I showed you. I've shown you the document here, I can show you once again, the record of the price negotiations for this new deal. This is a new business if it is a new contract, if it is a new tendering document. In the tender documentation, he had to give a guarantee of the seriousness of the offer. All of this happened. In short, Lastinski was just before the signing of the new contract for the maintenance of road weather stations for 2014. Probably for a while. And then the media discovered it, and in early December, the minister announced he wouldn't do it, and he brought a license to another company. In short, the minister acted for a year in accordance with the conduct, beliefs, awareness of these statements; at the same time he worked as a company owner, he certainly knew about it and worked in this direction to regain business for the following year. I would believe you, and it wouldn't be a problem if Lastinski had a multi-year contract and would just continue this business. O.K. It's an old contract that the minister had before he took office, and it continues when he has this function. This also covers the Anti-Corruption Act and is in some ways in line with this statement he has made. That would hold. But the minister wanted a new job because the existing one ran out. And he said he wouldn't make any new contracts, and he did, and he would if he hadn't been exposed to the media. And now, Your Honor, I don't know where I'm going here. Where I'm doing something right now or manipulating, like you say. These are the facts. I can show you all these papers again, I've done them twice for this pay phone today, and I can do it for the third time because I have them. That's what we're reading to the Minister. Moreover, we read that in his response to the interpolation he said that he revealed at the hearing on 2 April 2013 all the transactions he has with the country. I stress, all the transactions he has with the state. He mentioned two jobs, Eureka's business and the business of maintaining road-time stations. But he shut up the business of maintaining and calibrating salinity gauges for Dars, which he's been doing since the year, I don't know which, 8 and so on. And he did everything again to keep doing them, because he made an offer, based on the offer was the order, the price and everything. He's got the gauges. Neither is theirs. That's what the company Lastinsky authorized a man on highway bases, all over the country, went looking for them. He came looking for them physically. That's what we have the pre-delivery logs on. Isn't this a new deal with the state? Is this an existing contract? Who's cheating? Who speaks and contradicts the facts? I've got papers here on purpose to prove it. I'm telling you, I've shown them twice. It seems a little silly to me that for the third time, but please don't say that it doesn't exist, that it doesn't exist, and that we're making things up and that we're doing some construction. Because we don't. And you say what's wrong if Lastinski, Mr Omerzel, who was the director at the time, obtained a business for that notorious study called the Study on the Eligibility of Use of Flat Cables in Performing Electrical Installations in Tunnels and Other Objects with Specific Requirements. Dear Sir, this was not obtained on the market, it was a low-value order, there was no invitation to tender, there was no invitation to tender. It wasn't! A contract for EUR 33 000, a deal of EUR 34 000 plus, that's a job for you on the market. And who is proposing such a contract by Dars? Mr Anton Žagar, Taisti Anton Žagar, who was criminally accused by Dars, who is suing him for €3 million and proposed by Minister Omerzel and appointed by the Government as the Directorate of Infrastructure, who is now responsible for major projects on the Slovenian Railways. Taist Mr Žagar also participated in other business activities and the link between Lastinski and Darsa, of course. And if you're telling me that this is the success of one company on this market, then you little entrepreneurs who are looking at you now, who want to do business like this, are really listening and hoping that they can make a study to install LED lights in the National Assembly, which they would charge 50,000 euros. But it wouldn't be nice to sign a study with one electroinstructioner so that instead I don't know what kind of lamps are installed by LED lamps, and to copy this study from some prospectus and then we'd decide not to use it, we'd pay 34, it's a business for you on the market. It's not for me. We're probably different here. Now you're talking about the D.A.'s report. Dear Mr Braniselj, the content of the defence report is not a problem. The problem is that the Minister has thereby blocked the decision taken by the Committee on Infrastructure to have Members and others obtain this report because we have doubted everyone. But you know, in this case, the TES – unhappy or happy, whatever the name is – is in some way quite commonly known the fact that the TES and HSE authorities have broken it the most, and probably some other authorities in Velenje, that the price is now the same as it is. And the Government's decision was to authorise the State's defence to establish, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, the legality of the conduct of the bodies of these subsidiaries. These decisions were adopted in July and it was 3 months' time to do so, so three months would have expired on 15 October. The Ministry of Infrastructure did not send any questions to the State Defence until late September, but it did not have anything to do with establishing the legality of HSE and TEC's conduct, but it did ask questions about the possibility of termination of the contract, the exercise of nullity or anything between Alstom and TEC regarding the technology equipment for Block 6. This was asked what the possibility of the State in this particular case was in view of the conditions of the guarantee under the contract. This has nothing to do with the Government's decision to establish the legality of HSE's conduct in the case of TES. In early October, the Office of the Ombudsman replied and sent this reply to the Government and also stated in this reply that it is not appropriate to identify what the Government has concluded, saying that it is not within the power to answer questions about the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies. And we're the 21st Minister. 1. In the National Assembly, it is said that they are in the process of obtaining permits, so that they can, I don't know, publish or give us or anything. That's a lie, Your Honor. I can't say anything else here as direct as that. That's not true. There was no authorisation process and they had a green light because they didn't have a red light. But you know, you don't have to have permission for every single thing in this country. As far as handling government documents is concerned, the rules are very clear. Even if the documents were confidential, if they were strictly confidential, I do not know what nature, we have the right of Members of the National Assembly to see them unless any special provision prevents them. Unfortunately, in the case of a bank, a banking system, we can still see this today, but in the case of state defence reports, it is not a rule that prevents this. So the Minister had no reason to say this at the committee meeting and to inform Parliament that he did not then accept my proposal to obtain this report from the National Assembly. That's what I'm reading. And it's not true what you say. It's not just what you say and read to me here. Once again, with regard to the Government's decisions and not least, the Parliament's recommendations. You know it was an extraordinary meeting of two committees, both the Infrastructure Committee and the Finance Committee, regarding Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. And that's where you hit our conclusions, but the government dealt with this issue and 15. Seven. She also adopted important conclusions at the letter meeting. In short, it is proposed that an audit be made by an international, professional, qualified institution, propose different scenarios and what to do to make an amendment to the investment programme. And like this decision, as I said, these institutions, such as the Defence and the Ministry, check or establish the legality of the conduct of HSE and TEC authorities. And let's do that in three months, that's the government's conclusions. Then he received these conclusions from the government, and at the plenary session, as we are sitting here today, he decided to support this; and he suggested to the government, according to our division of power, that the government report to the National Assembly on this matter by 30. 11th last year. And we say, Sir Braniselj, that we have not received this report. We didn't get him in Parliament until 30. The 11th, and the 30th, 12th, not at all. It wasn't until after we put in the interpolation and the extraordinary sessions that the minister came and presented something to us. While this report on the implementation of the 7th Government Decision, i.e. reports on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies, has not yet been received. For that report by the Attorney General was the answer to questions about the Alstom and TES Treaty, because the defence said it was not proper. These are the facts. If you have any other truths, please support them with magnetograms. I did my best to give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Pavlisic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I propose that we give the gentleman here the opportunity to Mr Visiank to apologize and correct his possible lie, which he has said will not remain written – or will remain written – but to respond accordingly. He said, "The minister transferred the license to another company." As has been explained here several times before, the company has returned the Lastinski License and what happens then is that this is a Swiss company which grants this license in accordance with its business policy, just as this business policy has been chosen. And I don't think it's up to us to decide whether the business policy of a Swiss company is appropriate, whether it's not appropriate, whether we'd rather see that it grants these licences, whether it doesn't grant them, or whatever it is that it's already doing. To repeat, Mr. Vizjak, you said, "The Minister has transferred the licence to another company." If you don't believe that you said that, you can wait 10, 15 minutes, half an hour to get it in the magnetogram, and then you'll check and then you'll react accordingly. In short, my procedural proposal is to give Mr Visiak this opportunity to respond appropriately to his stated claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Dear Mr. Pavlišič, I have an answer for you here. This is a letter from Lastinski Darsu, who speaks in the second paragraph: "The Company of the Machines has already been Bosch's partner for representation, servicing and sale of comprehensive solutions in the field of municipal activity for Slovenia and has gained the trust of the principle through its past activities. The Council of Machines has already obtained all the necessary certificates and confirmed that it is from 3. 12." – it has been said since the day the Lastinski returned the certificate – "the exclusive representative of Boschung for Slovenia". What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	And you said, "The Minister transferred the license to another company." Did the minister do it and did he transfer the license? I still have to say procedurally, I propose that we give Mr Visiak the opportunity to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Yes, because I'm actually trying to follow your procedural proposal and give him my word. He's already given an answer. Do you want to do it again? Mr. Visjak, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	In response to the interpolation and everywhere, Mr Samo Omerzel, Minister, made it very clear that the 100% owner of Lastinski is not doubtful about this. What are you asking yourself? That's what you're saying, now you're saying that he didn't operationally find out, but someone else did it on his behalf? Look, one more time. Lastinsky was the exclusive holder of this licence up to 3. 12. On the same day, the license passed to the Council of Machines, which had already done so or similar things for this principle, for this Swiss company. And now you're telling me that this Swiss company has made a public competition, a choice in one day or a half a day, that it has chosen by chance the Council of Machines for this. I'm asking you nicely, are you really that naive? This was transferred by agreement, and this is also clear evidence. That's what they wrote down. They wrote it down the same day. Listen, this letter is the same day it happened, 3. 12. This happened, and at the time this letter was, and they already knew everything. Now tell me they have nothing to do with this. Yeah, that's for the naive, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Renata Brunskole, to prepare Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague, the President! Today’s session is extremely tiring and varied. And I don't think the people watching us are most pleased with the level of debate today. In particular, I think that the people of Posavia who are accompanying the meeting today would ask, in view of the heavy words of accusations such as the words of lies, the words "lie" may not be born Breščan against the born Breščan here today at the meeting. The main focus is today's varied dialogue between the proposer and the minister, both born in the Posav municipality of Brežice. However, I believe that this is not the case and that today's debates must also be seen as a broader political dimension. Especially loud and strict were those fellow Members who had been in government or state-owned companies for many years, employed or supervised by state-owned companies. So they were responsible, irrespective of the government, and had in their hands scissors and canvas in the area of infrastructure, from design to road construction, from finance and monetary policy all the way to the Bank of Slovenia. We also know which government was given the most credits, when that period, as we say, of fat cows, was 7% of economic growth. At the time, however, there were so many credits that apparently due to lack of prudence, risk management and too little control, there was – even in connection with Banka Slovenije – a bank hole and this bank hole must be solved today by this government. You want — you don't want a very envious position, a very ungrateful job, you'd say at home. In the past, some who are discussing today, because they know the area well, have been in their hands, and they have been direct or indirect leaders of energy and the economy. I myself recall the beginning of my parliamentary mandate and the debate on 7 November 2008, when, as the mayor of the Belokran municipality of Metlik, known for its textile industry, I drew attention to the crisis of the textile industry. It was not yet Pahor's government's fault, because the mandate had just begun. However, the textile industry had already had a crisis and people in textile factories had lost their jobs, and White Krajina as a demographically threatened area had already been neglected, even though there had been a good economic period before, economic growth. In this area, we have still been neglected, and we have also been economically involved in transport infrastructure. I remember that even then it was said when I spoke about the crisis – there is no crisis. Soon it turned out to be different. And we were all together, as far as this is concerned, united that the crisis is still true. However, today is once again one of the tests of strength, support for the government and at the same time the strength of the ruling coalition. It is now the third interpolation in less than a year of operation of this government, which may also mean that in the opposition we would like to trigger a government crisis and possibly a government collapse. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is certainly one of the most demanding and wide-ranging resources. It is infrastructure, transport and safety, energy, as well as legislation on infrastructure and space. And what is very important in these days is road maintenance and thus road safety. Not that I am defending the Minister now, but I cannot say that all that is related to road safety, which is linked to roads and infrastructure, is suddenly the fault of only 1 minister. This is probably the process of the entire period of independent Slovenia, for sure for decades. In this area, it is also a number of very important strategic projects of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the operation and work of state-owned companies. This is the second line of the Divača-Koper railway, it is the strategic importance of Luke Koper, it is about increasing the construction of the Port of Koper pier, it is about primate whether it will be strategically kept by Luke at the level of Europe or not. On the other hand, it is about building road links, such as developmental axes, including from Koroška to White Krajina, as well as other developmental ones — fourth, third, and so on. It is also about further orientations of Slovenian energy, from hydropower plants on the lower Sava, from hydro power plants and these projects on the middle Sava. At the bottom of the Sava, the projects are more mature, mature to be implemented. The Central Sava is in the second, even in some less mature phase. Until TES 6 is completed; leave it and have a bunch of iron; finish and some of it also survive, but not just go back to where – I mean European funds. So the current coalition is working right during the period of the economic and financial crisis, and I am convinced that this is a period when it is right for all of us, the coalition and the opposition, to try to resolve matters by also saving the period of our successors, for the next generation. And it is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space that can help relaunch the economy in Slovenia, thereby creating economic growth, reducing unemployment rates and new employment opportunities for young people. These are also one of the priorities of this government. It is difficult to say that today more than 20,000, 30,000 unemployed young people are to blame for anyone ascribe to this government. It would be unfair for us to discuss it this way. Or that this is the fault of the present Minister Sam Omerzel, who has been subjected to interpolation. We could discuss this in a big and broad way. The debate was large and wide. I also wonder if all the documents presented here today are documents which are publicly available, which can be said to be all b.p.; this is not my decision. If there is anything wrong with the Minister present to whom the interpretation is being made, we have law enforcement agencies, we have judicial authorities and all those who should decide. I believe that, personally, as a Member of the National Assembly, I cannot make this decision alone, let alone condemn it. I understand that this is a political debate that Members and Members of the National Assembly are elected politicians. However, today's findings, arguments, materials in interpretation, I think they go beyond my powers as Members to judge. I believe that the authorities responsible should decide. And if that's the case, then we'll have to make a different decision here. At any given point in time of this interpolation, because of all the above, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor, and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	Ladies and gentlemen! What Ambassador Renata Brunskole said in the last part would be very good to hear again. Now that there is a crisis, it would probably be right for us to step together and try together to set up those projects that will drive the train forward in this country and will not be particularly complicated. Therefore, it could be my procedural proposal that the interpellation's proponents withdraw the interpolation, thus concluding this debate and doing something for the good of this people. So, this is a purely procedural proposal. Of course, I will not support interpolation, as the SDS in its manner uses heavy words, heavy accusations, even today they have been made here. Three interpretations, extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, an emergency, and above all, I find it unhygienic that the former ministers today in the National Assembly are accusing or interpreting the current minister. I think it's unhygienic, it's not right, and maybe it'd be a whole lot better. It's about what you did or what you did. You are not, but today you are here in the National Assembly as a member of the current minister, who simply could not even begin his work. I also find it interesting, secondly, how the SDS acquired Darsa's documents, and again I find this interesting. I think that we have the right to these documents and that we have the right to be informed, but of course the question is how the SDS got this, how this secular group got it. It could also be that they still have influence in Dars, that they have confidential people who have done this, and that from here these documents came today as a copy and as what they have presented here. It's not right. I personally had a lot of problems, and it seemed almost impossible for me to obtain copies of documents, say, about TES when we talked about this. There are a lot of problems with that, and I find this very interesting. Thirdly, I find it interesting what the Member and former Minister Cernac said that the Member has greater freedom of expression than the Minister. I don't think so, no one has more freedom of expression, but it's true that we can say a lot of things and we're not responsible for it. Fourthly, all of this has been discussed today, I find it interesting that today it has been said that Minister Šuštersič was responsible for the guarantee. Yeah, for the guarantee, the conclusion, yeah. But I'm sorry, about 1.3 billion investments, and Mr. Chernač, the then minister, said that the investment was worth 1.3 billion; and never was the right number, not the right one. He claimed that the investment would remain at 1.3 billion, this response was given to the National Assembly, and today the interpellationer, on behalf of the SDS, still claims that it is possible to make this investment by EUR 1.3 billion, although we know that 99 per cent of all contracts have been signed and that there is therefore only one percentage. Everyone can calculate how much it is. And let me put it this way: the company will pay €70 million for the state budget guarantee. Fifthly, let me find a quote, and don't mind me, a quote from the former minister, Mr. Visiak. Today's quote: "As soon as the minister gives such information to those who are attached to this project," he said about Block 6, "the free hunting for these 130 million euros is open." Then he goes on, "We have quite a case today." And he says this, "and what's better for all those who are stuck on these tits, and those who haven't yet." The quote goes on and anyone can read it. President, Minister, if former Minister Andrej Vizjak knows that people are stuck to the curtains at Block 6, why he didn't react. If he knows why he didn't do something, he had to know all along that it was done, if that's what he's saying here today. But if you can't prove it, Mr Vizjak, you know what claims you've used here today, you're confusing, you're not trusting in Slovenia, and that seems totally inappropriate to me, so talking is wrong. If someone says something like that, someone is sniveling at some of the boobs; but when the person who was most responsible in this area says so, it has a completely different weight. I don't think it's right, but it's even less good for this country. He should also talk later, as a sixth time, about what is also recorded in the magnetogram that the eternal director Milan Medved is responsible for what is happening in the coal mine. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, for as long as you are eternal Members and Members of Parliament here, you do not speak so long about others that they are eternal directors, because in some ways the owner has appointed them. You don't have this right in some way, and it's not right to say it; but still. It is also said that €2.25 for gigajoule, i.e. magnetogram, is not a real number. Ladies and gentlemen, €2.25 for gigajoule is a real number, for which the number in the coal mine can be mined and dug. However, they said that the cost price in the coal mine was 2.4; 2.5; 2.45 due to investments not made in the coal mine. These investments were a new shaft, and these investments were the closure of some routes, including forest damage and damages arising within the coal mine itself. And interestingly, if we built everything block 6 needs, we didn't do it in Velenje Coal. Coal Velenje has invested in everything he has done for the production of 3 million tonnes for the next 40 years, for 2.25 gigajoules, with its own assets and resources, perhaps HSE. This should also be said that they did nothing or did not do enough in the coal mine. The coal mine has reduced the number of employees and has greatly modernised its production, with 5,000 miners today being 1 000 300 miners. And in the subsidiaries of 1,000 300 employees. So 2,000 600 people, higher-ups to 5,000. And people say he didn't do anything. Productivity has increased significantly and today we can argue that the investment made in coal is also what a coal mine needs in 2.45, so that it can also place coal in advance for the Chestnut thermal power plant. An interesting interview with Mr. Noběg, Director of the GEN, happened on Monday’s work in the sense that Mr. Noblego comments on good Slovenian energy and speaks of the need to use all Slovenian energy to build NUK 2. I agree with that. But when we are talking today about investment in the Chestnut plant, whatever anyone thinks about it, we are not talking about how it would be right to pool energy resources for this investment and that it would be necessary to make the maximum effort for this investment to be completed quickly and, of course, to be successful. For this reason, it seems to me that there is some way to comment or at least to know. And the last thing I want to take advantage of today is to say. Interesting is the investment in the Brežice hydroelectric power plant. This investment is extremely interesting when we're talking about Block 6, so I'm doing a comparison of what happened there, what someone's obvious to Block 6, to the current minister; and what I'm reading to those who led. For example, in addition to the hydroelectric power plant itself, a recreation area has been built in Vrbina pri Brežica. There was a parking lot, a road connected to the town of Brežice to Šentlenard 2 000 meters long, a two-way road, 5 square meters wide. Of course it's also like a maintenance road for a stream. About 200 meters north of Brežice is on land [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] parking arrangements relating to the levelling road. [[…]] It has also been built in several places on Krona, a rowing platform, for recreational sailing or boating, a stream of stream stretching about a thousand meters long and also the location of a sports area in Krske, on the northern part of the area is the ground complex with functional surfaces and parking places that can be carried out as a combined swimming pool. When we built an investment on the lower Sava, we built all the necessary infrastructure in addition to the energy facility, with which they provided security and probably the second one that people needed. And they used the Water Fund to do that. Water fund not used by Drava power plants and other power plants, not used to regulate watercourses, but used for infrastructure at these hydropower plants. The Environment Fund. Two funds not earmarked for this investment. I am trying to say, however, when we are at the same time criticising the Italian Power Plant and the Velenje Coal, that theme 2 has not been allocated a single euro for infrastructure. Not a single euro. That seems unfair and unfair to me. And again. This debate today shows that we will continue to have extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly; as soon as they can prepare the next one, it will be the next. We will also constantly have extraordinary committee meetings, a debate that re-enters our country with some tension, what the hell is going on. I would like to say this if we decide to dissolve or end this story, then we will certainly not ask the current proposalr, but we will do so, as they say, alone and certainly responsible. For the time being, I believe that in this coalition we are capable of such commitment and we are also doing a good job of carrying out projects that we have also set ourselves up. Once again, I propose procedurally. Under Article 252 third paragraph, I propose that the proposer withdraw the interpretation because it is based on nothing and is simply a repetition of the stories we have heard on the committees we have heard since we spoke about the Šostanj Termoelectricarium. And he doesn't have any basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you. The drafter of mags has the floor. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Dear Mr Meh, I think it's a waste of words. I invite you to come to Brežice tomorrow and see what was done by what you read that was done. I think the eyes say the most. You'll find that nothing has been done since what you read. The Brežice hydroelectric project began by standing next to the Brežica slaughterhouse one container to symbolize the start of the preparatory works. Nothing was done. You spoke in the past. Please apologize to the Brezians and to me, because what you have said is a lie. It wasn't done. Given how everything is going to happen in this energy in connection with Block 6, it's actually a question if it will. This was not done, Sir Meh. That's one thing. Second thing, you said 99% of the contracts were signed. Yeah, yeah. But that doesn't mean that 99% of the price is fixed. Because some contracts don't have a fixed price. That is why I said that those who have now received a message that this project could be worth more than 100 or 130 million euros have received a message that this variable part of the contract is tenacious and that many agree that it is tenacious. That's the problem. The problem is the ones who are stuck to these tits. I really don't know them, but I know they are. Otherwise, 99% of the contracts would not have been signed to applaud the minister's statements that EUR 1.3 billion is not a real number, but that the real number is 130 or EUR 128 million higher. That's the problem. And one more thing. That's my opinion. We know why there's been a dispute with client really close to block six. Why did Mr Gregor Golobič, as President of Zares, through Mrs Darje Radic, Minister of Pahor's Government, so beat after this project? Because he wasn't allowed to do this project. You know that, Mr. Meh. They did not want to do business with companies close to Mr Golobič and give them part of the journey. I guess that's how it's gonna be today. Mr Omerzel, from Zares, did not deny this, was very closely associated with Ultra, even with their subsidiaries in Croatia, as he himself said at the hearing or after the appointment. Count these numbers and facts a little bit, and you'll soon understand why this thing is being teased.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Replica, Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	I apologize for the E Brežica because it is a programme for the execution of objects. But I forgot to say this, but at all the other hydro power plants that were already built, they were the same interventions and they were done the same way. The project stands. I said there weren't any of these in Block 6. First of all, Mr. Vizjak doesn't know who they are, but he knows they are. One more time. The former minister, the responsible man, today, here, in the National Assembly, says he knows who they are who are. Unacceptable, Mr. Visac. Tell me, tell me. Have what a man should have. Don't talk like that in three days. Don't just mess around like that. In fact, when a person knows that someone's possessed, and he doesn't say it, he committed a crime. And you're the former minister who should know. And if you know, tell me. And even if you know what happened to Res, I don't know. I've already sued for my words, and I'm prepared in advance for my beliefs. And there's no way I can say that this happened because some company wasn't left to do that because it's a matter of management. But let those who know how to do research and not you do research. But if you know that, tell me!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you. Master Andrej Vizjak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Dear Mr Meh, I have said that this is my view that the ambition of the leading parties has always been – always attached to state projects – they have proved this constantly and everywhere. And I think that's what they wanted here. That's my opinion. That's what I said. I'm talking about the client, really, and Mr. Golobic. As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna know who the subcontractors are, but I know 99% of the contracts are signed. That's what you mentioned. They're not signed with Martians, with concrete companies. And part of these companies, part of these contracts is signed not at a fixed price, but at a tensile price. A stretching price, you know what it's like. This is such a price where arguments can also speak of higher contractual value. Last but not least, an annex is possible. And if the Secretary of State doesn't know, because I don't know who these companies are either, but I do know that, because 99% of them are signed, without knowing what these companies are, if the Minister gives a signal that the contract value, the maximum value, will be raised by 130 million euros, or if it's not a signal for these companies that already have contracts, and for the 1% who don't yet have an open hunt for a higher price. Isn't that a signal? It's obvious to me without knowing which company is behind it. And that's what I'm talking about. And I'm behind those words.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Meh, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	We can talk about everything. You claimed, Minister Chernač, who was responsible for this at the time, that one billion is 300 million the number he holds. And today you insist that there are 300 billion, even though we know that the contracts have been signed for much more than was said here. Still, you insist that this is the way it should be. That sounds like a head-to-sand thing to me. From this place we should be careful to speak, what we know and what we stand for; if not, we should apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you. He's a magi-proposer. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Mr. Meh, if that's true what you just said, then I'm ten times more concerned. Indeed, Mr Montenegro has not set the price of EUR 1.3 billion. EUR 1.3 billion as the value of this investment is determined by the revised, revised investment programme number 5, the most recently adopted, revised investment programme 5, which has experienced the review of KPMG, an international review firm. And the government in which Mr Černač was the Minister of State, and this Parliament, relied on these only credible, professionally supported figures, which were also supported by the Administration of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj and Holding of the Slovenian power plant. On this basis, the guarantee law was passed. And, Mr Meh, you are now speaking to me and saying that there are contracts signed for more than this number. If this is true, you must immediately sanction the person who signed such a contract for violating the terms and conditions. I don't think that's true because these contracts, like chewing gum, are stretchy. The price at the end, when paid, depends very much on what messages and what the final contract price will be. You know it or you don't know it. Or even you know someone signed for a larger volume of contracts. If that is true, for the first time, I ask you once again publicly whether you know and are behind your words that on the block 6 project it is already signed for a larger volume of contracts than EUR 1 billion 302 million. Do you know that and do you claim to be responsible?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you. Replica, Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	Yes, Mr. Visac. At that time, a responsible minister came to the National Assembly, claiming that the project was worth 1.3 billion. That's when you didn't ask him how he grew from 600, 700, as you like to say, to a billion. Today, we have heard from the current minister, the current minister, who said that the project is a project, that you have said in interpretation that the project is 130 million more, and that 99 percent of the contracts are signed. So I conclude from here that 99% of the contracts have been signed, that the price is therefore higher than that proposed by Minister Cernač here in the National Assembly, and that he has then misled us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	Procedurally, Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. In 5 minutes or 10 minutes, Mr Meh lied three times and deceived the public three times. For this reason, I would suggest that you give him a warning, which is the first step. When you, Mr Meh, heard me talking about the value of EUR 1.3 billion, not as Minister, not as Member. However, I have talked about the responsibility of the current minister to do all he can to ensure that this value remains. However, you have never heard me talk about what the real value of this project is, unlike this minister, who is now in the ministerial chair, who said on the home committee last May – 1.3 is a fact and we must keep this price if I simplify. And that's what I was talking about in the presentation of the Group's position. You must have heard that, but you got it all wrong. The one who spoke about the value of the project was Minister Omerzel. On May 31st, he talked about the fact that 1.3 was a fact, and then a few weeks later he turned the board around and said that this value was completely unrealistic. It was already known in 2009 that the project would cost over €400 million, as a value of €424 million was set in the second investment programme at the time. It would be irresponsible for me, either as a then minister or as an MP, to politically define the value of the project. This value was determined by my predecessors at the time of the Pahor government in 2011, and was based in NIP 4 on the value of EUR 300 million. Our government has adopted conclusions on the need to do everything to reduce this value. It was justified that this could not be done, of which NIP 5 remained at approximately the same value, billions and 300 million euros. This investment programme has been endorsed by both supervisory boards, both TES and HSE. And it was also reviewed, where it is written in the review, quote: "From the point of view of the level of the budget and other costs for typical time sections we find that this is appropriate in relation to the assumptions taken into account in the NIP 5." So whether or not I should doubt what the competent authorities have concluded is calculated by experts, mathematics and others, or whether I should speak in such a populist way — no, it's not a value of 1.3; but it's 1.5; let's just give a little bit more of this investment. I expect you to call on Mr Meh to make a public apology because he has told a lie three times in 10 minutes that I have politically defined the value of this project. I didn't do it. That's what Minister Omerzel does.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr Chernač, I cannot take your procedural proposal into account. However, it is very important that the dialogue is carried out among those present in the Chamber. And that is also proof that if Mr Meh has spoken about you, you have the opportunity to respond and this is the best way to debate in Parliament. However, I do not have enough data to assess who provided accurate data, who did not provide accurate data. However, I will always warn the debater if he tries to involve someone who is not in the Chamber and to say that he has done so and otherwise. This case is indeed the case which I am reminding because the case mentioned in that case cannot be included in the discussion and contradicts the statement. Mr. Meh, or before, he had a mag. Andrej Vizjak doesn't want to. On a procedural proposal, Mr. Meh, you can't. Next, if any debater mentions you, you can apply to the replica, so I suggest we proceed with the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Marjani Kotnik Poropat and the mag is prepared. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Minister! You just said that people who aren't in the hall shouldn't talk about them. And I wanted to tell Mr Tonin, whom I greatly appreciate and respect, but his debate on the backpack, when he said today that we are putting together members of the coalition, by supporting the allegations against what is clearly the interpretation of Minister Omerzel. This has really hurt me because I think we want the members of the coalition here today to say what we believe is true about this interpretation, or to give us the information we have about Minister Omerzel's conduct; and that this is not unacceptable and that we are not imposing a backpack on ourselves. And I would also like to say that today I am sorry that this debate is developing at such a level that we can tell individuals that they are lying. I'm really hurt by that word. If we feel that someone did not tell the truth, we would express it in a more appropriate tone or with a more appropriate word. So much for that. There's been a lot of talk today about the interpolation itself. Because the eyewitnesses go from one side to the other, or the eyewitnesses on the one hand, it is said that those who demand interpolation and us who advocate Minister Omerzel that there should be something else to say. I will therefore state again some facts about these points listed in the request for interpolation. Under point 1, when a violation of Article 35 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is apparent to Minister Omerzel. I would like to say that it has already been said, and I would like to reiterate that the Minister has provided this information in due time, that he has forgotten – and I believe that he has said it here today – that he has forgotten to tell some of the data in his ministry; and that he did so as soon as he has been warned. That's important, too. Then, point 2 speaks of misleading the public with regard to the conclusion of new transactions or the provision of services for the company for motorways, that is to say Dars via the company Lastinski, after taking over the minister's office. As has been said several times before, the Minister also stated in his statement that he had resigned or that his company, Lastinsky, had renounced further business with Dars, and had not accepted any new business with Dars. And, of course, also with regard to these statements to the Minister, Sir Omerzel, I believe. Thirdly, it is a violation of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws, issued on its basis. This is about the fact that already respected Minister Cernač should proceed with the procedure for the appointment of the new Director of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This was not done, but was appointed Acting Mr Seliškar, who is still in this position today. We have also found today in the debate that it is probably good that Mr Seliškar knows things in Gurs. At the time when we are introducing the new Real Estate Tax Act, it is very important that it is in this position. So there was no breach of legislation in this area. Point 4 refers to public fraud in relation to the situation in schools. We have heard that the Minister has not been familiar with the situation in the schools, which has been going on since 2010. You heard correctly, 2010. And even in the pre-departure record or at the handover itself, he was not warned about this. It was only on 8 November 2013 that he committed the infringement and then took action. Please, if you'll allow me to speak now, because I have my word. If you think that I did not give the exact data, you will be able to replicate it or tell me in the debate. Thank you. Point 5. Ignorance of the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the project TEŠ 6. We know that this project has been under way since 2003. An ideal presentation of the project itself took place during the time of the Government of Rob. However, the signing of the investment agreement took place at a time when Prime Minister Janez Janša and Minister of the Ministry Mr Vizjak, who was also, as has been said, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants. The holding was then led by Dr. Jože Zagozhen. And the value of the project was then EUR 602 million. We have heard that this value was such that it did not express true value nor for equipment. So, the responsibility for TES 6 is somewhere else, not the minister. But it is necessary to know that the project is run by the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, so it is the responsibility of the management of this thermoelectric and supervisory council and, of course, Holding the Slovenian Power Plants, where the administration and the supervisory council are again responsible. The Minister presented the measures he intends to take in the coming period. I believe that both the Minister and the Government are aware of the seriousness of the project and that the measures envisaged will also be implemented. With regard to registration plates, this is point 6 of this interpolation, when it comes to the apparent injury of taxpayers, it was found that the invitation to tender had been issued at the time of Mr Cernač's appointment. The Calling Commission at the Ministry, the Minister spoke about this in particular today that the Commission was completely sovereign and received 2 tenderers. She then chose Kik d. d. as the provider that met all the conditions. The other tenderer then complained, of course, and the State Audit Commission reviewed the whole procedure and found that the procedure had been corrected and therefore confirmed the choice. With regard to the price itself, it must be said that the price was €18.60 and that this is an acceptable and appropriate price. Today, the Minister has cited comparisons of certain prices in neighbouring countries, according to the European Union countries. We have heard that Kik offered 18.60, in Austria this price is €18, in Italy €40 to €44, in Germany €25, in Sivic €40, Sweden €20 and so on. Now I've listed all the points, and I'd like to conclude with this. Today, there were also some other things that were not on the agenda in the National Assembly regarding this interpretation of the speech, and I think that is not right. And that in the future it would indicate that we are indeed all Members and Members of Parliament sticking to this agenda and that we are not talking about pensions that do not have paid contributions and so on because they are not part of this agenda. Let's leave that to the point where we discuss it when it's on the agenda. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you, too. I give my word to the magician. Matthew Tonin. Before this procedure, Jože Tanko. Excuse me, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Kotnik Popotat tried to focus the debate on the content of the interpretation in order to discuss agenda items. And since the meeting is now being held for 9 hours and the Minister has spent 13 minutes on a general answer at this time, I expect the Minister in particular to respond specifically to the questions raised – and now 10 times, 15 times. Does he claim that he came for the salt meters, that he was agreed for the price, and that he returned them in part such, in part different? Just yes or no. Does he claim to have concluded a contract and to have charged back services that had not been performed? Because the invitation to tender was later made and his company was not licensed at the time. The answer is yes or no. May I, Minister? We're talking about the topic of interpolation. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 15 Ten. On 15 October, the government should receive a report. We ask whether or not he has fulfilled these commitments under this Decision? Just answer yes or no. On 30 November, following the recommendations of the National Assembly, he was obliged to report on the conclusions and implementation of the agreements that were adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Coalition, namely the Government and the Coalition. I'm asking if he reported to the National Assembly on TES by the 30th of November last year, didn't he? The answer can only be yes or no. We are further asking and asking whether, when Mr Pojbič was present with the report, he took note of the problems with the schools and the measures to be taken or not. The answer can only be yes or no. These are the things and some others written in the interpretation that Mr Vizjak and other colleagues who have discussed in this regard have already repeated several times. And we expect the responsible minister to answer these questions. We do not ask about who signed the first contract and the second contract with TES. We ask whether the commitments made in the agreement and decisions of the National Assembly and the Government have been fulfilled, whether they hold the interpretative statement on salinity meters and weather stations and so on and so on. And that's all we want. The topic of interpolation is these statements that we wrote down. The minister should answer that question. And he's sitting here smiling and there's no answers. And I'll repeat the same thing next time, in 10 minutes, if there are no answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you. Minister, you want a word? No, no, no. I give my word to the magician. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Dear Minister! We could certainly shorten today's session in 2 ways; one is simply to make a statement of resignation and solve all these problems. Or that you have a specific answer. I think this could shorten today's debate for several hours. It's all in your hands. I would like to apologize to Mrs Kotnik Poropat, if I have hurt her, that was definitely not my intention. In fact, she herself has found that we have the same goal, which is to get real and concrete data. Today we have been working hard and asking the Minister specific questions, not invented, not for the hair drawn; but questions arising from official documents, questions arising from contracts. All we want is a concrete answer from the ministers. And when I said what had affected Mrs Kotnik Popotat, that the government coalition was sure, with the Minister's continued support, even though the Minister did not provide the necessary explanations, he was putting an important and very heavy stone in their backpack. This stone will burden them on their way, one way or another; today's debate, which will last for several hours, could be devoted to certain other things if all these stories did not happen and happened to the Minister. And look, absolutely, if you support him in the final vote, you will also take political responsibility for him. Like I said before, you have different values, different scales, what matters to you. Some political figures defend themselves slightly more intensely, despite their sinning. But to others, he gives up very quickly. In this House, there are quite a few such cases, Mrs Porotat, even from your parliamentary group, the case of Simčič being aroused when the Group of Members at some point gave up or excluded him because it did not want to take political responsibility anymore. And I'm saying exactly that you are now carrying a similar story to the level of the entire coalition. If you support Mr Omerzel, you will also take political responsibility for him. But I hope it's not such a thing as hurting you or hurting you. I spoke quite simple facts, including the case of the Civil Gazette. Look, Mr Omerzel is very fragile and very defensive, and things have turned out very differently with Trudy Cinderella. Again, it is just a talk about how it seems important for one individual to defend a particular political figure. In order not to speak only of DeSUS and the National Gazette, I can give a similar example for Positive Slovenia. In the case of Stank Stepišnik – they gave him up extremely quickly, while, say, Minister Jakič is being defended more clearly and more frenzydly, which only speaks of assessing that Minister Jakič is indispensable to them, while Minister Stepišnik is indispensable. These are simple political calculations. In my introductory debate, I said that it would be better and fairer for our relations if we simply admitted and said that Minister Omerzel is a member of you that you cannot miss, that he must remain in this government coalition if you want this government coalition to continue. And you'd be much easier to understand. But if you're looking for some forced arguments just because you're countering us, it's only deepening the depth between the coalition and the position, which is not good for all future decisions. With Darsa's business today, a lot of things were presented, and a lot of things were documented. Read the magnetograms, read the facts, and look at the contracts. You'll find that the minister unfortunately didn't keep what he promised he would. Even more, because of all these complications Dars is in trouble today. The company owned by the minister, for example, provided Dars with special salinity meters, and today there are quite a few of these gauges that are damaged. And since the minister said that I would no longer be in business with Dars and another appropriate company is not yet qualified, today certain salinity criteria are not working. That's why Darsa's workers put highways on their minds. At least that's what the experts told me. And because they pour their minds out, they can also use more than 30% of the material they need to pump the road. I do not want to be dramatic here to create a conspiracy theory, but also because of such a decision that the Minister defends his position at all costs, it is precisely today that certain economic damage is caused to Darsu. It's about TES. I don't think I'll miss it very much if I say that the Minister in this matter didn't feel much. On this subject, my esteemed colleague Happy Meh was much more active. We could hear him on this subject much more than the minister; and that is not even the task of Mr Meh, but he does because he believes in it. However, we would expect the minister in charge of this area to fight and do everything possible to avoid these escalations. Minister Omerzel himself says he's good at it, that he's business, that he's persistent, combative. This is exactly the kind of fighting and perseverance I miss in Project TES 6. Because when we listened to him at the last meeting, the minister was primarily looking for arguments as to why something could not be done, why certain prices could not be reduced. From the successful minister, from the Minister with a vision, for which Mr Omerzel is concerned, I would expect him to devote all his energy to how and how to bring this project to manageable costs. I'm sure there's no overactive activity here. Regarding license plates, this is the case: the minister was or is an economist, most likely very well known for his business. Since if these procedures were initiated by his predecessor, in the sense of a good master, he would certainly be able to put a stop to this deal in some way, cancel the call, or do something in the direction of getting to these tables as cheaply as possible. Well, he didn't do it. However, we can reasonably assume that some kind of agreed invitation to tender was made for these tables, because the cheaper bidder only dropped because it did not meet some relatively insignificant administrative condition. And you know, this invitation may have been very similar to when a high official of the State Council wanted a new vehicle with which he was transported, but he didn't want to write the exact brand that the car wanted, but he wrote all the characteristics of this car, so at the end of the day another car, like he wanted, couldn't even be chosen. What do I have to tell you? Even in this invitation to tender, in the case of tables, if the Minister were a good master and if he saw that the second offer was so low, he should simply cancel the invitation to tender. I don't think it's the minister's job to evaluate and explore the price of these tables across Europe. The cheaper Slovenia gets them, the better for the country. I don't care if they pay more in Austria or Italy. It is important to me at what price we pay them in Slovenia. And the minister, as a good host, is responsible for ensuring that Slovenia, as a country, gets these plates as cheaply as possible, not trying to prove with some numbers that the price of these tables in Slovenia and the selected supplier is fully adequate and comparable to other European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. I could get the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, but I don't see him in the hall. That's why Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we are talking about the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Before the ministerial function, Sam Omerzel was an entrepreneur and, in my view, after everything we've talked about today, he was a very good entrepreneur and a very good economist who took care of his company so that he could pay his employees as well. Each company acquires transactions on the basis of contracts, contracts of work, service contracts. And also Mr Sam Omerzel as an entrepreneur signed contracts. He signed them in 2008 and also in 2011, as before 2013. In 2013, Mr Sam Omerzel became Minister, and when he became Minister, as I know, and also you, he did not sign any more contracts as an entrepreneur. He gave up the contract if he were an entrepreneur, for 150 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, 150 000 euros seems very large to me, and as a former entrepreneur herself, I would consider whether to remain a minister or be an MP or be a businesswoman. Minister Omerzel himself has decided to proceed as Minister. And this is a good minister, a minister not only for his own good, but for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Let me say that Minister Omerzel is doing his job well. At the initiative of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, he also took part in the construction of the Bachelor's Railway, and at the initiative of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, he also had the $8 million guaranteed in the 2015 budget. Let me say that he is also committed to solving the traffic load of the Bone Road, Kočevje-Ljubljana, with reversible belts, which I am very pleased with. But it saddens me that the previous government has done nothing for Kočevsko. She was committed to upgrading the railway to Ribnica, but not to Kočevski. I'm not going to support interpolation for all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Jožef Horvat is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	Your Honor! The Minister's interpretation is the right of the opposition, the same is the right of the opposition to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and so on. However, most of these 8 or 15 hours, for the duration of these discussions, show only a great deal of chatter, today also insult, one and the other, which is of course unproductive. There are already two extraordinary sessions at the Lager and I think that some of the SDS – which are not here all day – are already moving the udbov archives and something else – are preparing for the next round. Just so things don't run so the government doesn't do what it's set up to do. The beginning of the Minister's interpretation was partly done when we discussed the TEC. That's when I said the interpolation had already begun. Today it's just the continuation of this farce, and it just needs to be survived. I don't know how the minister could be responsible for the skeletons falling out of the closet. Let me mention TES, let me mention auto schools, bridge maintenance and so on. If he can do more than he can, and I don't believe that's possible. You're saying he didn't initiate proper procedures. As far as I can tell, investigators walk around companies, carry document wagons, question those who have performed certain tasks at some point in time, and open investment maps as well. All of this is an effect that this government can actually attribute to itself, because somehow it wasn't possible before, but it didn't want to. That is why some of the debates here are painful and screaming, because attention needs to be focused on the other side and the attack is always the best defence, they say. The Minister's doing his job well. If he's at peace, he'll do a lot more, and I'm sure the fog will blow, as one of his colleagues said, that now it's all in the fog. It is my desire that these 15 hours be spent talking about investments in infrastructure, energy, how to obtain funds for all these investments, and who to personally charge that things run faster than they do. What is the fault of the government of Janez Janša and what the government of Borut Pahor is, these debates do us no good, and we have absolutely no use at all. It's a waste of time, and I think it also shows the situation of how many people are here today, that there's actually no interest in listening to the same line indefinitely. You said that in three, four hours there was that middle of a debate, and now we're just repeating ourselves and we have six hours left. I believe that you will insist, but because there is no vote, there will probably be fewer Members and Members after nine, ten hours. I will not support the interpretation because I don't think it is necessary and the Minister, with the support of his position, will be able to do much more in the mandate ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you, too. The drafter of mags has the floor. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	I thank Mr Brultz for pointing out something that we repeat through interpellation. He said we were talking about things, we could talk about new investments, including energy. It is true, therefore, that we insist that the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica is limited to what has already been voted in this House – 1.3 billion euros and not 130 million more. Because this 130 million euro can be the money of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant for other investments, and for other urgent investments in energy infrastructure in this country, even for the start of the mid-Sauce chain of hydroelectric power plants, even for the faster completion of the construction of the lower Sava chain, I think there are still several other energy projects, which is why I agree with it. But this is part of the interpolation, we do not read anything about the management of this project in the past, with regard to the responsibility of all those involved in this project, especially at the Termoelectric plant Šostjanj and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. We simply acknowledge that, on the basis of unverified and unaccepted documents, he has begun to make public the fact that this investment will cost about 130 million euros more and that money will not be provided by others other than those who finance Slovenian energy. And this Slovenian energy, instead of spending this money on other projects, will devote it to this project, which is already a fact. That's the problem, that's all. Mr Brulc, you mentioned the point of discussing this, you have already decided as you have decided, and the end and the end. Look, I just can't agree to this. If a minister and a candidate for a minister such as Omerzel was in April last year, clearly speaking the facts in this House, I have said that he is lying to Members and Members, that is a problem for me and I cannot go through it. On 2 April, the Minister publicly said that he would no longer enter into new contracts with Darsa, and he kept his mouth shut, he made it clear that he had disclosed all the business with Dars, and this did not happen because he did not disclose that he was still working with Dars in the area of salinity meters. The minister then worked intensively throughout last year – sorry, his company, whose 100 percent owner, worked hard to obtain these businesses. The media, specifically Channel A revealed this thing. Then there was the harassment of the public, and that led to the absence of this business. If the media did not disclose this before the contract was signed, but after the negotiations, when the offer was made, when they negotiated the price and negotiated the price, it was only then that the media revealed it. Only then did the minister give up his business and say he gave them up. I have a serious problem trusting a minister like that. How can I believe a word he's given in the future? I find it hard to believe if he's pissed me off a few times, if that's better for you, if we don't use the word he's saying. Then there's that meeting last Tuesday, when the minister obviously says he can't give us a report because he doesn't have a green light on the defense. It turns out that this is a pure lie, that it has every opportunity for Parliament to adopt this decision and to receive this defence report. And when we add to this, Mrs Osterman, even the past work of Minister Omerzel, when we see how this company was doing business – we have published here, as I told you and showed you, a document on how it obtained a business to produce a study on the eligibility of the use of flat cables in the execution of electrical installations in tunnels and other objects with specific requirements. On the basis of a closed procedure, I think closed, the tender was short for 30 000 euros. The result of this job is completely useless for Dars. Mr Žagar, Anton Žagar, who was then proposed as Director, appointed Director of the Infrastructure Directorate at his Ministry, is now taking care of major projects on the Slovenian Railways, and this is what Mr Žagar says will enable this company to do such a fine job. Today, probably a lot of entrepreneurs who are following us are asking, where else is such a nice business for me to do one study on the use of some cables, or some cups, or some lights, or I don't know what for a state firm, I get 34 thousand euros, and that's it. And then more. When we talk about Lastinski's first business with Dars, we find that the contract was signed in November 2008, an account issued in December 2008 for 7 months ago. This is said to be an account for a period when the company has not at all had a certificate. It says you obtained it last August or August 2008. And the calculated monthly flat rate of EUR 4 000 750, which was not available until then. That flatline wasn't there. This is some innovation of this company. Thus, Your Honor, it is possible to earn money and be a successful entrepreneur if you have one friend of Jagar on Dars who proposes to sign you all lively and professionally watch over this area, studies, flats and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we also report other things to Minister Omerzel, both in interpretation and today, which are more or less worrisome and will also bear witness to our problems. I seriously ask you, we are also talking now about the integrity of how one minister can continue to carry out his work effectively with such a backpack within the framework of the challenging resource covered by it. You've actually united here, a coalition in crisis, in trouble. You've got each other practically on the shot. You, Positive Slovenia, have Mr. Jakič with a nice backpack for the Stožice and the signing of some fictitious contracts, an obvious signature of fictitious contracts. The SD is worth Mr Pikal with Lukšič, with regard to very interesting studies and various issues concerning learning programmes and content. And then the coalition got in trouble and in distress, you decided to sweep it all under the rug and move on, just to rule. Bravo. It's the way you operate. If you think that's what the opposition is telling you, because it's warning you, you're wrong. We have to warn you about that. This is our constitutional role and duty, and we will see you in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you. Before I give the word forward, I would only warn that we are not using or burdening people who are not in the hall today. Mr. Jagar, mentioned earlier, cannot answer your claim. Please try to really focus your discussions on those who are in the Chamber and who can have a dialogue. Unfortunately, Mr Jagar cannot answer these questions. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Wait a minute, Mrs. Osterman, did you want to proceed with the procedure? Okay. Then he now has the word Mr Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear President, you were in the Chamber earlier when I made a procedural proposal. On the role of Mr Žagar between Dars and his company, the Minister can answer, which is why he is here. He can give a concrete answer as to whether Mr Žagar was an officer for the relationship between Darsa and his company. We have also asked the minister a number of other matters, including the document by Mr Vizjak, which tells us that things did not take place regularly, in accordance with rules and legislation, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, because some documents were issued retroactively – for a period not covered by a public contract. The contract shall cover the period from the invitation to tender and from the choice forward: not back 7 months. But the minister does not answer these questions, nor does he say whether the documents are accurate or not, nor does he say whether the statements we wrote in the interpretation at these points hold or not. It does not even say whether this role of Mr Anton Žagar is what it says in our interpretation, or not, and what Members are repeating now. This, Minister, is primarily your task today, not sitting, but answering the questions we are asking members of the opposition bench. It's not like that. And every debate we are more convinced that these documents are authentic, that the allegations recorded in the interpolation hold, and that what happens when we vote on your suspension will not respond to the authenticity of the documents, but will be achieved by a majority vote to cover your responsibility and non-compliance with the laws. That's the key problem right now. And once again, and please, Minister, answer the questions that have been asked. You can answer all the questions, yes or no. Only with a yes. Very briefly. You have issued an invoice for seven months since the contract was signed or not. Did you issue an account in what covered the contract or the invitation to tender? Yeah, but no. It wasn't answered. They hold the information that Mr. Visjak has and showed you, don't they? Yeah, but no. Simple. Have you fulfilled your commitments to the government, the government's conclusions? Yeah, but no. To the recommendations of the National Assembly? Yeah, but no. Last time I asked you, you didn't answer. Now we repeat, and don't answer. So it's no different than he's holding it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you. But I must point out once again that the Minister cannot answer the way he acted and what Mr Jagar thought. Perhaps Dars, who is employed, can then be asked. However, the Minister certainly cannot respond to Mr Jagar's actions and his thoughts at the time. Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the replica. Were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, President. Mr. Vizjak, I think, misunderstood me. In my debate, I merely limited myself and wanted to stress the work and responsibility of Mr Sam Omerzel as minister, not as an entrepreneur. I also said that as a minister he performed his work in 2013 and previously acted as an entrepreneur. I would also like to say that I do not think that we are competent here to assess his work as an entrepreneur, but to limit ourselves only to the work and responsibility of Mr Sam Omerzel as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you. As a candidate, please, you have the floor, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I see that Mrs. Osterman understands perfectly well. I repeat, because this is our key observation from the interpretation that the Minister does not understand that he can be a public official or a minister and that he cannot be an entrepreneur at the same time and operate with companies that belong even under his department, such as Dars. And he was at a time when Mrs Osterman, a respected minister, he, his company, a company of 100 % owned by him, was competing for new jobs on Darsa or for new contracts on Darsa. There's been a fight. That's what we documented. You probably don't need me to give you those papers for the fourth time. I have contracts, orders, everything. In short, Lastinski, which owns 100 % of Mr Omerzel, competed for 2 deals with Dars in autumn 2013 with a company under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure; probably not under the Ministry of Culture or, I don't know, education. We agree. And that's exactly what we're reading. The Minister is an official who can't do it at the same time, and his company, too, is engaged in business for this country whose minister he is. Simply put, this has to be separated and probably you, not him, don't want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get ready, Mr. Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much, President. Although he is not a colleague of Mirko Brulco's in the hall, first of all, I would like to say that I very much agree with him. Of course I'll vote differently than he does. However, I would rather see that in the working bodies of the National Assembly, in plenary sessions, we have discussions on those documents, the legal solutions that would draw Slovenia out of the mud. Slovenia is sinking. In Brussels, the money available is grants and we are not ready. And I would also like to be discussed on the committees on a partnership agreement, on smart specialization, on other programming documents, on an alliance for young people, on an alliance for apprenticeship and so on. If you expect, fellow members of the opposition, a respected government to prepare this for you by the New Slovenia Group, then say so. We will. And it would probably be a better document than the government sent to Brussels, at least as regards the partnership agreement and smart specialisation. And this is where I make a dot. Because I would not like to see a respected Mr Sam Omerzel once, when we may no longer be in politics, look at ourselves or look into our eyes, if we meet on the sidewalk, or if we may not have afforded coffee when we remember, I want to apologize to him for misinterpreting, and I must have made a parallel in the attitude of the Group of Members between non-hygienic transactions, which we are seeing, and dirty business. Excuse me, Minister only Omerzel. True, I understand very well that dirty business is just a subset of unhygienic business. Of course, I also expect from you that you believe me, you don't have to apologize to me because I've already told you that you will always be a worthy man for me, because you are a minister. And the minister can't be who he is, probably not a messenger. Isn't that right, Minister? And I would expect you to believe that I did not abuse the unfortunate homeless man from Prekmur who was, in my choice of words, his house or home was broken. I don't know who's here next to you if you don't have the police - the police certainly don't, because someone's given the job and someone's made a scenario on how it's going to work. And I said, in the position of the Group of Members, that is not how citizens of this country are dealt with. We're too few, and we're too precious, all of us, two million. And you are the minister of all, and I am the messenger of all. Comrade Richard Branislju, tell me if this Horvat fails, although the second most common last name in Slovenia is, but you will probably get used to it in the second half of this term. I'm not sensitive to these things, but I'm not intertwined, either, but I'm going to answer the question you asked me. I didn't need two minutes on December 4th, maybe a week later, when the official results of the 2011 early elections were published, I decided to close my s.p. This tortured you as a lawyer. And not just you, each of us brings into this house some professional deformation that is probably positive. And other scenarios were possible, and now I'm thinking about it. I could borrow money I didn't have at the time, do d.o.o., and if I had the qualities of a greedy man, d.o.o. would still work today. And perhaps, especially when we were in the government, this company would have worked well, but no, Mr Richard Braniselj. I didn't need two minutes when I decided to close the company, and I probably had to cancel some contracts that were concluded before the elections, but no, Mr Braniselj. Here stands the heart of the problem or the core of today’s content. They may be all acts of an inter-interpreted minister after the letter of the law, but the question is whether they are ethical. And what have we said many times? A man stands and falls on ethics, an entrepreneur stands and falls on ethics, politics stands so early and falls on ethics. These are your president's letters, Dr. Gregor Virant. I'm afraid, dear colleagues and colleagues, that these supreme demands of Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Slovenian Government, will fall tomorrow. I would have a very specific question for the Minister. When we quote laws, you know, 98% of the citizens who look at us probably don't understand these things. They will surely understand, however, if the honourable Minister will agree with us to answer what it means to maintain the contract, to maintain the climate stations, if I have spoken correctly. I don't know exactly what the object of the contract is, thank you, mags. Andre Visiak, who described the philgratical details, and of course I trust them and believe them. It would be interesting, Minister, to tell Slovenian taxpayers what this contract means, what this maintenance means, what hours there are, how many stations, how many spare parts, what stocks, etc. Unfortunately, this is your private company, this company we're talking about; but you're a public person like me, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week we're public. As a result, this company of yours, in your 100 percent ownership, must also be given to the Slovenian public at the table in some way. One part of it has already been done, but I want to know how much it costs when a technician, anyone, comes — it's probably in the contract — to come and look at this weather station, how long it takes to get there. Because I have some information, but you better tell me what it looks like. But surely, Minister, you understand very well, because you are an intelligent human being, how the system works when you combine a demo and a cratein when democracy arises. After that you are asked by Member Horvat, but you do not only answer to Horvath – you answer to all those who have put me and my colleagues in this house. Not only to all voters, $2 million and $50,000, you're all answering my question. I believe that you understand that, with this, unfortunately, now I'm going to abuse a little bit, a little bit of trouble for the president of the government, when he's always after that with the questioner. But this is where I make a dot about it. Perhaps even with regard to the unfortunate Premur homeless man, since 5 November 2013 homeless. If I hadn't noticed him at the gallery, I wouldn't have mentioned him. I'll bring you some, and I can show you on the computer when the document, called the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, was created for today's session. I added that when I saw Mr. Kuzmich at the gallery. I will be very grateful to you, Minister, for your answers to the questions I have asked you. The point is that the Slovenian public, I think not only the opposition, including coalition colleagues and colleagues, demand that the work of the minister, the work of the government according to the provisions of the law, the Constitution, as the minister swears, and also according to the principles of high moral, ethical values. And ask yourself the answer, or answer the question, what difference did she make between you and the former Swedish minister who bought a chocolate bar for her daughter at an airport in duty free, knowingly or by mistake? The next moment, when the cabinet found out, the Swedish Prime Minister signed a resignation statement. I didn't make that up, and you can find it on Google, anywhere, any ambassador can say that. And I like this minister, even though I don't know her personally. I still have the hope, and my sincere desire is that you will continue to be a successful entrepreneur and that these issues regarding the unfairly clean business with Darsa will not burden you in the future in business life, because there are probably many years left to go to retirement. I conclude by voting for the Minister to leave and for someone else to come to this place. We note that the expertise that applied to the former Minister of Economy is mag. The stepfather was rejected by today's debate and tomorrow's vote because clearly those criteria no longer apply. I do not want a government crisis to occur, but we know that this is actually very close, because if Minister Sam Omerzel left now, and there was another one that should go, we were suddenly without a third of the government – and this is a problem for the country. As an opposition Member, as a citizen and as a taxpayer, I want a government that has a large basket of money ahead of it to act responsibly. Not only is he buying social peace for a while, for a period of rule, with debt, a new and new debt, which is likely to reach again 7 billion in this year's year 2014. I hope not anymore. Here I wonder what this government's concern is for young generations. What concern does this Government have for young families? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister. Mr. Just Omerzel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr Horvath, I am very pleased to hear what I have heard from you, regardless of the result of the vote. I am most pleased that our communication misunderstanding has been smoothed on a substantive level. I am pleased that the opinion I had earlier on you as a distinguished gentleman, that I will continue to have this opinion, and that, of course, regardless of today's vote, we will be happy to look each other in the eye, to look into each other's eyes, even when I am no longer the Minister and when you will no longer be a respected Member. Especially because of the use of hard words, but I think we've understood that it wasn't meant to be. I apologize to you, too, if, by chance, a heavy word has been said on my part; but what is crucial, we have cleared up the matter. We know that neither of us wanted to be offensive. This is what is important, not only in our communication, but also today in my explanation and explanation of the content, why I think this interpretation is unfounded. With regard to your question on road weather stations, Mr Horvat – when the question is properly asked, with a proper and fair purpose, I am truly pleased to be able to answer. As far as the road is concerned, I have to say that this is a system that is very important for the operation of the highway cross. On the one hand, we have a central system where software managers control everything that happens locally on the highway and on the local system itself. We have a bunch of extremely important sensors in the case of Bosch's headquarters, a road weather station, there are also quite a few patented technologies that have been used with extremely positive, good algorithms to predict everything that's going to happen, Bosch also uses. And as for the use of the system, there is no doubt. The whole of Europe, Switzerland, Germany, especially Scandinavian countries, practically all roads operate on Bosch equipment. When you talk about the price and structure of the services themselves, I will bring you the full specification that is truly extensive, and I am prepared to explain to you all prices in detail both for spare parts and for the services we have provided. I speak on purpose in the past and will also be happy to explain to you all the price differences we have created, so that you will see at what level this service has also been done. On the one hand as the quality of services and on the other hand also the price we have offered for this. And I'm going to get to – I don't know what to call it – Mr Tank's performance and Mr Visiak's performance. Mr Tanko imagines my answers that until they get the answer they want, they will ask me. That's how the Inquisition used to act. They also mention, as has already been said, communication officers and mention gentlemen who are not here today. I must say, it is unfair to mention Mr. Zhagar, who cannot defend himself today. The president of the National Assembly also made it clear how he is. I can't know what he was thinking or what he was doing. The only thing I can say is that our relationship was strictly professional and strictly outside of it, anything else would be redundant. Mr Tanko, you mentioned Mr Pojbič, who was the Director of the Transport Safety Agency. I have not replaced Mr Pojbič, Mr Pojbic's mandate has expired. Please note that you are correct here when you provide incorrect information. Mr Pojbic's mandate has expired, we have made a regular call, the Commission has decided and has chosen the best candidate. When you talk about Mr Pojbič giving me information about the state of the school, and you want an answer from me that – no. Mr. Tanko, how can you ask me to answer that? I can't imagine it, and I think it's inappropriate. On the other hand, I will answer as far as Mr Pojbich is concerned. My question would be, why would Mr Pojbič, if he really knew all this and if he informed the Minister about it, why didn't he mention it in the pre-receipt record? Didn't he think it was important enough for this to be in the pre-receiving record when he handed over his business to the next director? There you should write about what was wrong with these schools, where you should warn your successor what needs to be done next. And again. Mr. Pojbich has actually been to my ministry once. When Mr Pojbič was at my office at the time, the only thing we talked about was his wishes and lobbying to become director again at the Agency. I made it clear to him that I absolutely don't mind him running, the conditions will be transparent, and the commission will choose the one who will be the best candidate. If he's the best candidate, I don't have a problem with him being there. I'm going to touch another detail, although as far as my company's business is concerned, I've made myself clear. The opposition has repeated the same questions over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, the same questions have been repeated. I made it clear at the opening presentation today that my company gave up working with Dars. And I said it would never work again. Please don't talk about me not being able to make a decision and being a parallel minister and entrepreneur. Because you are incorrect, all that has been heard today, I have made it clear, and I reiterate. My company won't do business with Dars, it won't do business with state-owned companies. In particular, the 2008 contract. Gentlemen, I really don't understand that you draw most of the readings from the 2008 period when it was my legitimate right to fight for business because I was the CEO of the company. How can you not understand that? When you point out that we did not have a certificate for Bosch – those gentlemen who provide you with documentation to deliver complete documentation. We've had a license for Boschung since May 2008, gentlemen. And don't say we didn't have it if it doesn't hold. And when we're talking about this particular contract, where you tell me that we don't know what we've been creatively creating, please. In the introductory part, I made the question clear, Mr Vizjak, when you first put it. For this work we have an order from the contracting authority, we have all the signed pre-transmission records that the service has been performed, and we have all the jobs. Dars was the one who decided to apply the contract from May 2008. We have done the service and it is a fundamental right that if you have done the service, you will also issue an account. Those who have ever engaged in entrepreneurship know that this is the basis and then all the documentation goes on. The service has been done, and I ask you not to manipulate and put our work in vain. On the other hand, I'm gonna ask you one more time. I said that one more time today, and I'm gonna ask you one more time. At the time this contract was signed, there were two signatories. The President of the administration was Mr German and Mr Rigler was a member of the administration, they signed the contract, the procurement procedure was conducted in Dars. If you feel that anything with this contract is wrong, anything has been wrong, I am calling you today publicly and I ask you to inform the official authorities to investigate it. I have a perfectly clear conscience, if you think something is wrong, please give the competent authorities what they need to be given. Mr Vizjak mentioned the flat cable study four times today. I'm not going to go into the details of the content, but I must express deep disappointment at what contempt is said about the work being done by the doctor of electrical engineering. The electrical doctor led the team that did this study, and then Mr. Vizjak speaks so distastefully about the people who did their job properly. From below each level, and I ask you, as far as the work done properly by the employees of Lastinski is concerned, not to treat it with such contempt and in such an improper way. It was also very interesting to hear Mr Chernač's statement. Mr Černač stated that he never spoke of 1.3 figures. Mr. Blackach, now I'm worried. But you were the district minister when the guarantee was signed, and there was 1.3 of that number that was operated on, and you never talked about it. I really don't understand this statement, and it's hard to understand. What I can understand is that as a district minister, because you're a lawyer, you haven't dealt with the content related to the technique. I totally understand that. But if you are not of this profession, I would expect you to ask your colleague from the government, Mr Visionak or any other additional expert to explain whether you can believe or not what they have delivered to you. Dear Mr Chernač, I will not agree and cannot agree that the Minister is not the one who will review the content of such an important investment as the Termoelectrica Šostanj, before defending his government and before this Parliament that this investment is the one he believes in. I stress once again, and maybe someone will look at me strangely, but when we talk about a billion-euro project, the minister has to be competent, he has to! If he does not know the content, he should be able to ask the right questions and ask the right experts around him who will trust them and who will provide him with the relevant answers in which he will believe what he will stand for. And what I did with TES and what I stand for is this – I used my knowledge, my experience. I've made some investment plans in my life, and I've used all the knowledge of people around me, and today I'm behind what I said. When we had the Infrastructural Committee and when we presented in Parliament the facts about the investment in Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, we represented the facts, I did not present my wish, as the opposition wishes today to show. I presented the facts behind the profession; and the facts, why and where these differences occurred, were clearly presented. But, Your Honor, you just don't want to hear it. Five times you repeat the same question that you initially received the answers to. Mr Tanko, I have given you all the answers, but look, I understand what the opposition is saying, I was, as far as you're concerned, condemned long ago and you don't even care what I'm saying. You're not interested in arguments. That's about the way it is in electrical engineering when you have a device where the transmitter is turned on and the receiver is not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. You have the procedure, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. The minister allowed himself a lot of dirty work against the MP of the National Assembly. I think it took him a long time to get his receptors caught and that after 10 hours he could get a 15-minute response or 10 minutes. However, what is important, despite what he has just said, is not entirely accurate and he has clearly stated to the public whether he has issued an invoice on a public contract 7 months ago or not. He fought for the company, says he did his job, says that Mr Omerzel did his job before the contract was made. In what way – with a public undertaking bound by public procurement? You're also talking about Mr. Pojbich doing something. He gave you the final report in due time and probably also introduced you to the conclusions of the final report. And if he introduced you, you probably looked at it in detail, but you didn't act until six months later when the interpolation came in. Only then did something happen. As far as Thermal Power Plant of Šostjanj is concerned, I asked you very unequivocally, Minister. Did you report to the government within a period of time on the measures taken or not? Have you responded to the recommendations made to the National Assembly within the time limit or not? There are not yet those reports that we requested today, and it has been two months since then. They're not here today. So you haven't done your duties after the conclusions and commitments you're about to make. And don't underestimate us not to read or understand anything. We understand damn well because, for the first time, we read a lot, and we've been here a long time, so we know how these things work. And some are ministers with longer internships than you are, and they also know how these things run. Someone who comes for a pay phone after 2 days or 14 days and teaches everything around him is wrong with him because he bought all the knowledge of a source very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	First of all, there are no answers that we've been asking for, consistent, but we've been around, and we expect that from the minister. I'm asking him to say it again. And it's likely that there's a lot to be made clear by now because they didn't want to answer. But I want very specific answers, just as they were put in place. And one more thing, do these documents we have in our interpolation hold or hold, Minister? The foundations of interpolation are documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The Minister has been here with us all day, answering questions, and I think he'll answer, even whenever he can apply for a word. There is no such dilemma and this procedural proposal is not really necessary. Anyone else want a procedural one? Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you, Vice President. I would just like to warn you that the Minister is indeed responding to the National Assembly, but this does not allow any Member, nor does the leader of the Group of Members, to insult the Minister. On the contrary, Mr Tanko said that after 10 hours Mr Omerzel began to function as a receptor. Firstly, the Minister did not answer for the first time today, now, but has responded before, so I would like to, please, if you could warn the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I've alerted Mr. Tank to a procedural proposal. Now he has the word, Mr. Tanko. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Madam President, I understand that the Minister is from your parliamentary group, I understand that you have a great problem in the Group of Members with the conduct that is evident in this interpretation, because you are significantly derogating from all the conduct and statements of your Party President. And the kind of intervention you've allowed yourself, and the kind of reproof is unnecessary, and it's pointless. I think it is the Chairman who should ensure that those who are obliged to give answers also respond to this. The Minister does not respond to this today, it is clear to us that we refer to persons who are not, the gentleman is written in interpretation, Mr Žagar, Mr Pojbič is also written in interpretation, but he refers in his reply to Mr Pojbič, who is not. It refers to the former administration of Darsa, who is also not here, he can use it without a problem. We who wrote this into interpolation, these claims, with the names and surnames of the people who did it, are not supposed to be possible. The Chair would be very good if you, as a member of the same party as the Minister under interpretation, allowed and demanded that things be properly clarified. It's not like that. And I think it is inappropriate that this is how the debate in the National Assembly is conducted, as is the case, to deal with prehistoricity, with things that do not have any facts to interpret; it is not responsible for the concrete findings that are the subject of interpretation. This is the task of the Minister and the President to ensure this. Everything else is, I'd say, your personal opinion and it means subjective judgment, not objective matters. We are here to determine the objective circumstances and to verify the facts that are recorded whether they hold or not. So far, all have been confirmed, not one fact has been rejected. And if the minister has other facts, we've been calling him all afternoon to explain, explain and document them. And I suggest that you provide this to the members of the National Assembly, that the interpretation will not be empty or that the decision to interpret will not only come to mind because someone is a member of a party and a coalition. Interpellation and voting should rest on the facts and it is the presidency's task to ensure that the facts come to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to tell you that I have not given you any reproof, but I have just reminded you to make a procedural proposal when your time for a procedural proposal has expired. Second of all, I do belong in the National Gazette. But as chairman, I am the chairman of the National Assembly, and here my Group of Members has nothing to do with this. I would therefore ask that, when you address me, you address me as Vice-President, not as a member of the National List. Mr Meh has the next procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Yes, Vice President, that's actually the point. We in the National Assembly, Mr Tanko specifically behaves as he does not treat officials or officials of the National Assembly here. It is not right that he behaves this way and I also protest that he says that you are a member of a party, but who of us is not, if you say so and that he uses it as a tool when he speaks of his procedural proposal. I'm surprised to see his way, he wasn't on the Infrastructure Committee, he wasn't here this morning, he wasn't anywhere when there was a bunch of these answers. I believe he listened to them, I believe he heard them. But it comes here with procedural proposals, because it can't discuss otherwise, and procedurally requires an answer from the minister. And I don't think that's a procedural procedure. I'm procedurally proposing simply so that you don't let him do it anymore because he's doing it all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Meh, just a question – on which committee was this interpretation addressed? Can you tell me something that didn't happen in the National Assembly? This interpolation is being discussed for the first time here today. And I'm a signatory to this interpretation, so to speak, I've been preparing it, I've read it, I've been working on it, and I've been monitoring this debate in the National Assembly. And even what you're reading to me, this is a debate on the committee on TES, it didn't go away, not to be afraid. I've been keeping an eye on her. And it's also an integral part of this interpolation. And not on the committee, not at the meeting of the National Assembly on TES, not here in the handling of this interpolation, there is no answer to what is written in the interpolation, no answer. And that's sad, and the minister should know how to answer that. Agreements and conclusions have been reached within a period of time whether they have not been reached or not at all, which is most likely and most certainly what I have just said. The conclusions have not yet been reached. And that's worrying about such a big investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I might suggest that we proceed with the debate. I think it's important that we move the matter forward. Master Vizjak, you have the floor as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	Your Honor! I can't help but say that the minister is getting more and more complicated. Look, the minister claimed, for the first time, that Mr Franz Pojbich had expired his mandate and that he had left this choice to the Commission and had nothing to do with it and had just been chosen by another. Mr Omerzel, I have here a record of the Council of the Transport Safety Agency, which has proposed to you to appoint Mr Franz Pojbič, Director of the Agency. You've made a political decision and you've named another. You are now distanced from appointing Mr Pojbič as Director of the Agency. Look, here's the minutes, the Council of the Public Transport Safety Agency, and you've gotten a little confused again with your statements. What did you just say? We'll read the magnetogram. That you had nothing to do with the election, because that man's term expired and the election committee did its thing. Yes, she named Franc Pojbich. She proposed to you the French Pojbich. And that didn't happen. That's the first thing you've ever gotten involved with. The other one's worse. You said you were working to get a May license, service road weather stations. On what grounds did you do this, Mr. owner of the company Lastinski, who did this business? In fact, the contract which has been the basis for the billing since May has been signed 26. 11. 2008 26. 11. 2008, here is this contract, and Lastinski concluded a contract with Dars on the basis of a previous offer from October of the same year. And this contract bears the number 1519/08. And look at the fraction, followed by the account of Lastinski, which refers to the contract 1519/08, that is to say that the contract was concluded in November, and this account was dated December 2008. And the bill also contains 7 months of flats, that's seven months ago. So it's said that Lastinski was working for Dars on what grounds? Based on what, I'm asking you? If the contract was the basis for the issue of this account, otherwise this account would have been referred to something else, issued in December 7 months ago, the contract would have been signed in November. And you say she did everything right, everything right. Now you're making excuses to some administrations that aren't even here. This contract, Your Honor, is not obvious to you, but a witness to your character and your business, how to say, activities and ethics. You're ready to fight for business. Normal, over dead bodies, over everything. Even through regulations. Fine. If this is a message from the minister, then I don't know what to say. One more thing. You spoke and praised your study on the purpose of using flat cables. Now I can think of flat cables in tunnels and other objects with specific requirements. You were talking about what a pearl it was, because it was made up by a doctor of electrical engineering. After the name of the manufacturer of the study, it is not yet sufficient to conclude on the quality of this study. Not at all, if he claims that he has received this study and paid for it, it is Dars, at least the expert team that examined it a little bit, that it is actually a translation of foreign prospectuses and a completely useless thing that Darsu has not come up with since then. In short, totally no added value. And when you get so familiar with all the contracts and all the business, I ask you what added value this study was for Dars, except for the fact that there were 34,000 euros in the company's budget for you. And that's a benefit, direct. I'm not saying anything. Only Dars, who ordered and paid for it, today claims, or at least those who fear that they will be suspended, do not even hope to point out that this study is a mere copy or translation, pardon, of the brochures. It has no added value, and Dars has been of no use to Dars from then on until now, which is five, six years ago. And the fourth. The Honourable Minister. There's nothing we can tell you at the interview that you're not working for Dars anymore. However, it is clear to you that in 2013, after you served as Minister, despite the public commitment to hearing, that you will not enter into new contracts with Dars, you have carried out 2 procedures by December last year in order to reach such contracts. And if the media hadn't exposed you, they would have signed those contracts. Then you decided not to do it again. And now you're saying, "I don't do this anymore." I said I'm not doing this anymore. Yeah, we're reading your attitude towards interpolation, not on it. And this interpolation is also a revelation of these facts, which were argued that you gave up, because you also said it publicly – I gave up the business, which means you were going to do it and you gave it up. You're admitting it yourself. Nevertheless, the Minister-in-Charge, please answer this question whether you stated to the Infrastructure Committee, where you were interrogated before you became Minister, that you said you would no longer enter into new contracts if you became Minister. Is that what you said? I'm rhetoricalally asking you this because you see a magnetogram, which is a public document, everyone can see it, and everyone can check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kurnjek, you have the floor. Mr. Daniel Krivec should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the debate, it was said that we would act immorally if we rejected tomorrow's intervention against Minister Omerzel. I think, and also in the National Gazette, we are convinced that Minister Omerzel will never allow us to act immorally, for if he ever acted unlawfully and harmed our country, I believe he would resign himself. In the Civil Gazette, we had this opportunity and the privilege of meeting the Minister also on his personal salary. We know that he came to the government not to serve, not to stick to authority, but to do something really good for this country. We're sure of that. And the Civil Code guides us in supporting his ministry. Any citizen and any one of us who has had the opportunity or time to read such a submitted interpretation, as well as the reply of Minister Omerzel to it, can see that the interpretation is empty and without basis. It contains six points, which are to be read by Minister Omerzel. I would like to focus only on the sixth one, which speaks of the selection of the bidder for the production of vehicle plates. The Minister says that he has done nothing wrong with his conduct, and everything that has happened in this process also confirms these facts. Let me just give you a brief history of this procedure. The procedure for awarding public contracts by the preparation of the estimated value and by all tendering conditions were prepared during the time of the previous Minister, Mr Cernač. That's not a big deal. We all know that. The invitation was opened by two companies, Kik and Erich Utsch, in cooperation with Utsch Adria; I will jointly name Utsch. Kik, offering poor 13 million euros and Utsch, with about 6.5 million euros. We all know there's a big price gap here. Personally, I'm surprised that you were only two for such a job, and I must say it, very unusual. I would also like to know how these things happen in our country, that there are only 2 offers for such a business, although this is a business that has been published not now in Slovenia, but throughout the European Union. When the tenders were opened, the Commission found that the Utscha offer was incomplete and incorrect. As a result, Kika’s offer was rejected and the only other one that still existed was accepted. What's a Kik? Is this some new player on our market? Is this a new player on the vehicle plate market? Of course not. It has been operating for several decades and has also produced plates in Slovenia. Utsch is also a global celebrity company. In response to the interpellation, the Minister also said that he was aware of this and that the company also knew. However, that the selection commission had made the right decision, the State Audit Commission also found that the application of the Utscha for revision had been submitted. And the State Audit Commission gave the selection committee at all points, i.e. that it opted for the only other option, or that it excluded Utsch from the selection process itself. As my colleague Braniselj has already said, in the Public Procurement Act, we have article 80, which states exactly how or when a public contract should not be repeated in its entirety. And if the Minister had done so, because nothing had changed so much that he could justify this act, he would have acted unlawfully. And now I'm wondering if you expect the motions from the minister and the ministry to act unlawfully. The Minister does not have this opportunity to interpel a Member if he is given such advice. I would also like to express my thoughts on today's interpolation and also on the interpretation of Dr. Virant, which we had last month. Interpellation without content and drinking water – the evidence was both in writing and today, and at least from our point of view, they are credible. I personally adhere to the principle that there are no coincidences in the world. This principle was evidently followed many years ago by Socrates, who said that nothing would happen without a particular reason, if we knew that reason or not. When reading online comments, one of the commentators reminded me of the work of Sun Cu's military debate The art of war, which speaks of the way war – under the terms, do not misunderstand me – takes place. And if I paraphrase the little thing, we could understand that this is obviously one of the fundamentals. It is the work of the Art of War, which the Members and Members of the SDS, gathered around their President, not only read but also say after it. And now I'm paraphrasing the commentator as well as Sun Cu and I'm going to tell you my version of what it might look like. So, SDS works strictly through Sun Cu's book The Art of War, you just never let your opponent relax and do his job. If you can't beat him, you're exhausting him with constant incursions and petty assaults. Therefore, interpellations, themes on commissions that do not belong there, calls for urgent meetings of the National Assembly and working bodies without the right content, which would in any way contribute to the recovery of our country, pointless accusations, ideological themes and so on. And in the end, just one more thought. In the face of our minister, it is often obvious that he should act in the interest of some lobbying and that he should kneel under their pressures. But the truth could be different. If these lobbies existed, apparently the minister himself could not be besmirched, they might be using others to stun him instead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I can agree with the predecessor who said there were no coincidences. I'll prove that in the debate. But as for his debate on our thinking and our functioning, he can only say it on his behalf and on behalf of his client; he cannot speak for us. This merely shows how they work, has a leader behind whom they stand, and apparently listen to his moral teachings. However, I am increasingly wondering when I am listening to you and listening to the debate, whether I am actually sitting in a Parliament that gives something to the facts and documents that we have before us. Whether next week we will convene a meeting in which we will rehabilitate our colleague Stepišnik, because there were significantly fewer problems with him regarding his inconsistencies or violations that he would commit in terms of integrity, the legality that we have in today's case, where you have evidence, we are talking with paper evidence that the Minister does not respect the integrity and, above all, the integrity of this House. For throughout the debate we have shown him that he is repeatedly lying to Members or in some way not expressing himself according to what he wants to say or speaking in a double way. And the first two points we have in interpretation are the fact that the Integrity Act stands and we must all respect it, both us Members and all the other officials. And you are also speaking in response to the fact that this part that has not been fulfilled through the Integrity Act is a minor error, a misdemeanour, nor is it dependent on him as an official, can be attributed to officials at the Ministry. If we do so, then we do not need to give some documents to individual authorities, but I wonder how long it will take for someone to ask us for health. In the procedure, we have a new Act on Slovenian State Holding, which you are investing in a procedure in which even a chapter is intended to do so – measures to strengthen integrity and accountability and to limit the risk of corruption; conflicts of interest and misuse of internal information in managing the country's investment. Dars will also be part of SDH and must respect the Integrity Act at this time. There are quite a few specific requirements to be met by the official, and this also applies to the Minister in this case. Then I'll read some things. "Restriction of conflicts of interest: members of the administration, members of the supervisory board, employees of SDH, members of the human resources commission, business compliance officer, members of the consultative bodies of SDH must, in accordance with this law, disclose circumstances that could lead to conflicts of interest and must consistently avoid conflicts of interest, as defined by the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption. They shall not use their services or positions and information acquired in the performance of their work in order to achieve an illicit private interest to themselves or to others." It would be difficult for me to agree with you that in this case, which we have in this interpretation, everything is clear under this Article and the Minister has no obligation to provide information on the basis of his position. The following indent states: "The candidate for members of the Management Board of the Personnel Commission, the procurator, the business authority or other management position in SDH and the candidate for a member of the management or control authority in companies in which SDH has a majority or dominant influence must submit a statement before deciding on the appointment of the appointing authority by which it discloses whether or not it has been in circumstances that could lead to a conflict of interest in accordance with this Article." We have a problem in this case, too. At the hearing, at the hearing – at the time I was still the chairman of the committee – I will make it clear once again that it will be clear: "The other work related to the country is our work with Dars. Since 2008, at Dars, ownership has maintained road weather stations, and this contract has actually been implemented since 2008. And as far as working with the country is concerned, we must respect these existing treaties. We will not increase the scope of our operations with the country and will not sign new contracts in the event that I am elected Minister." This is also in the context of this article, which you are proposing in the SDH Act, which is already in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The third article states: "Member of the Board of Supervisors, the Staff Board, the Procurator, the Business Officer, a member of another management post in SDH and a member of the management or control authority in companies where SDH has a majority or dominant influence, shall, within one month of being appointed to any of those positions, disclose information on ownership shares, shares, management rights held by itself or by its family members." That's what the minister said at the hearing – he's got company and another company owned by his brother. Even so, he said that his brother had to ask him to register this company because he first registered this domain. Correctly, but the first part, we'll be back. Secondly, information on functions or work performed in the past 5 years or still carried out in persons of public or private law. That's what he said about these contracts. He also made it clear that he would not perform new contracts, but he silenced the part that spoke about dealing with salt measurers. That's a fact. That's what you've learned from all the debates. My colleagues have repeated this several times, and the Minister has not denied it. We didn't hear that, and it was shut up. Also in past mandates, someone has silenced a matter and there have been severe sanctions, if not others, in the next elections. The third indent states: Data on debts, liabilities or assumed guarantees and loans held by itself or entities referred to in the first indent. Then there is another indent: Whether it has data, its family members or entities in which more than 25 % of the ownership shares, outstanding tax liabilities and other circumstances may affect or affect the impartial and objective management of its tasks or its personal integrity. These are the things you record in this law, which you have been referring to in the coalition all the time – to preventing corruption, to improving the situation in terms of integrity and all the other things that are linked to some dignity in these procedures. Earlier, there had been talks about these unfortunate salinity meters, which had been silenced by the National Assembly and for which contracts had also been concluded further, despite the Minister's assurance that this would not happen if chosen. Previously, it was also said that certain rights were being transferred. I will read the document that says – Subject: Return of the order for inspection of hand salt meters. "Dear, authorised representative of Boschung and so on, at our request on Tuesday, 3 December 2013, he suspended our exclusive licence to represent this company in Slovenia." This is a document sent by Lastinski to the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, 3 December. On the same day, he appointed a new exclusive representative for Slovenia, the company Svet machineów, representation and sale d. o. o., based on Belorusska ulica 5, 2000 Maribor. The company Svet strojev d. o. o. was already Boschung's partner in representation, servicing and selling comprehensive solutions in the field of municipal activity for Slovenia and gained the trust of the principle through its past activities. The Council of Machines d. o. o. has already obtained all the necessary certificates and has confirmed that since 3 December 2013 Boschung Mecatronic is the exclusive representative of Slovenia. Now listen carefully. "With the termination of our licence contract with Boschung Mecatronic and with the Commission's decision to prevent corruption to place our company on a list of business entities which are not allowed to deal with contracting entities that are bound to operate under public procurement rules, our ability to execute your contract will formally cease this number and this one." If we listened carefully to the minister, he said that there was nothing wrong with these contracts and that he could do business with Dars. And he says that, given that in this report, which we read under the first point, the law violated the law because he did not ensure that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as the body in which the Minister is acting, would, within 15 days, transmit to the anti-corruption commission a list of entities to which the Minister is associated or subject to operating restrictions. That's what we're reading to him. And since this was not transmitted to the KPK, the KPK, because it did not have this company in its records, also wrote the opinion that this is not a problem. When this was mediated, this same Lastinian notes what I have read and I will quote once again, "that by the decision of the Commission this is no longer possible". Thus, when the data were officially sent to the Commission for the prevention of corruption, it could be concluded that it was not in conformity with the Integrity Act and probably with any other legislation. Until this information was transmitted to the Ministry at the KPK, some of them probably acted ignorant. It is therefore clear that in this case it is a violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption because these data have not been transmitted. The Minister says that this is a minor offence, and he could even be understood if there was no document by the Lastinsky, who, in explanation of why he returned the licence, said that it was in line with the Commission's view to preventing corruption and therefore could no longer carry out the business. These documents exist. The minister says the commission had nothing to do with it. Of course not until it was official. Until the Ministry referred the related persons or related undertakings to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, it could not issue a decision. From this letter, Lastinski makes clear in his explanation why he is returning this concession, that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption places this company on a list of business entities which are not allowed to deal with contracting entities that are bound to operate under public procurement rules, which Dars of course is. This actually confirms our explanation at the first and second points, where we are talking about the violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and that, at this stage, there was some way of misleading Members in Parliament when we did not know about the business of salinity meters and the Minister did not know about it. I will not go to the second part, which we also acknowledge to him, that despite the fact that he has declared that there will be no new contracts, there has been a procedure that has led to negotiations, otherwise at a very minimum level, between Darsa and Lastinski. While the minister here says that according to the anti-corruption committee's opinion, it was all right, but because the media pressure is so great, it is a departure from these contracts. But it's not true. When the Commission received data from the Directorate or Dars to prevent corruption and from the Ministry concerning the linkage of these companies, the Commission had to clearly decide that there was a lack of consistency and non-compliance with the legislation on these links. Here I would expect more specific answers from the Minister on this matter. I think you'll find it hard to convince me, too, if you're talking about us talking in our head and we don't have any arguments. I also have to say that I was kind of very happy when the minister performed and he said at the first hearing that he came from the technical services that he was an electrical engineer. I expected him to do business this way, not to look for some, as I would say, secret ways to keep the business going. Since I'm also in the field of electrical engineering and that I know some things, it will be difficult to convince me of certain things which it claims to be as impeccable as it is in its reply, where there is a lot of recognition between the lines and the documents that prove it. But as for integrity, we probably all have some experience. I got it out of this myself. Last but not least, I had to graduate twice for certain anonymities, and I know what that means. I am truly surprised to see the Minister answering in such an easy way in response to the interpretation and also in the National Assembly so unconvincingly the answer to specific questions, to specific documents, including with regard to the 2008 Treaty. I myself have been in a public company for quite some time, including the director, and it will be difficult to convince me that you can issue invoices back for the way it was written in this evidentiary case. There is a clause in this contract that also speaks of some of the costs previously incurred. I'd expect you to settle these costs with another contract, a contract or something. However, even if there is no article in the contract that speaks of certain works, pre-costs or anything, it will be difficult to prove. This is not what we are dealing with right now, but it is some way of working, which we certainly find very difficult to accept, that this is the right way, and that this is a good way for someone sitting in a ministerial office who has to take care, in fact, of maintaining their integrity in all ways. Previously we saw, the new law stipulates that data must be transparent for the last five years. If the U.S.S.D.H. were to be in force, the minister should also report it, so that this contract is not so far back. In the third indent, we are talking about a violation of the appointment or extension of the contract to Mr Seliškar. This is also some kind of scheming and blaming of the former minister. We are only talking about the fact that the legislation is clear that after 6 months the procedure must be carried out, or the extension must be signed by the new minister. My colleagues will explain this even more clearly. Regarding the misleading of the public with regard to the situation at the school, colleague Cernač will say more. The Minister himself admitted that he had received a report, he had probably read media articles on these matters, and I find it difficult to believe that he had only learned everything in October, November, and that he had previously been unable to act on any matter. The pronunciation of pre-transmission records when we read it in response to interpolation so someone can buy it. However, in view of all the other interpretations that have been in the media, it is only possible that the Minister reads nothing, watches nothing and knows nothing, because they are also other things. Ignoring the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on TES, I think the correct question is when will this report be received by the National Assembly. I think the questions the Minister should have answered were about his work. We are not going back into things that are back-to-back, and we are not even asking him this question in interpretation. The whole procedure or request for an answer shall refer to the decisions of the Government and the conclusions of the National Assembly and nothing else. And all the time you're back in history, I can tell you, I've supported this project all the time, because I know how electrical projects are set up. It is likely that some errors were made in the initial phase, especially when the block was increasing. But I don't think politics plays a major role here. The Minister explained that he was competent to deal with any project, including in terms of finance and technology. I have to say that I have never seen such a superman and a hat down if he can also evaluate the second track and check which variant is the best. But then I'm afraid we're not going to do any more projects in this country, because the minister has only two hands and more papers than he can look at. I think that, through your statements, you are putting too much responsibility on your shoulders if he claims that he is competent to verify the correctness of the procedures concerning TES or technological procedures and also the financial evaluation of this matter. Until he's sure it's okay, but the thing won't work. I think that what he said earlier would be expected because it comes from the technical profession, that he would not attribute it to himself and that he was also burdening himself in some way. There's a lot of talk about the value of TES. I hope that all Members are aware that there is a document, including a guarantee, which we accept in the National Assembly, binding both on us and on the executive work, this is the Government. I don't know why such perversion, when we point out that when a signal is given that this value can be a matter of discussion, actually opens the way for another annex to be written in this project; and that contracts that are also linked to non-fixed costs actually increase now. I don't know how you Members feel about such things. I do not allow myself to accept something in this House, but someone would go through it smoothly and leave the door open so that these things could increase, and also in some way risk that the European Commission, which has also accompanied us and confirmed us, asks whether there is anything in this country that can lead to the end, especially because, from the law of guarantee to the statement of the Minister, it has not expired more than a few months. But we were the same MPs in the National Assembly. Even if the minister says that's what he knew, that's not what's going on. And if someone expects Members to deal with the professional work of each investment and that we will also review investment programmes in terms of credibility, this is, in my opinion, a little too much of an expectation from the Members of the National Assembly. And when we get the documents to the National Assembly, to the Committees on Finance, Infrastructure and later to the National Assembly, which are verified by those companies that run the project, which confirm it on their supervisory boards, which are behind it, I don't know which of the Members has so much knowledge that they might reject these documents. Now we have the opposite. We have the documents we received in the National Assembly, on the basis of which we accepted the guarantee and also committed ourselves to a certain amount of investment; on the other hand, we have the position of a minister who has changed practically within 1 month, talking about this investment increasing by approximately. 130 million without any of us seeing any document without the supervisory councils and other authorities of these companies confirming his claims; but the minister knows. This logic is going to cost us a lot of money. This logic, previously developed by the Minister, is that each project must be evaluated by the Minister in terms of financial design, technology and the like. I really can't imagine that everyone at the Ministry and all the other business entities in this country are incapable of carrying out a project. This will probably continue as the minister forgets that magnetograms are public, and more than once, not just at the moment, and that such statements can be very, very repetitive in his future career. Probably forget about it too soon. With regard to registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers. Much has been said about these two offers and about the fact that the Minister had to do what is legal because the audit also confirmed this. However, remember how many audits were made regarding purchases, such as medical equipment, about the bypass in Škofja Loka and so on. A lot of revisions, but nothing useful unfortunately. Corruption went on as well. To refer to an audit, in this case to the decision of the commission and the audit, but before that, the Minister for TES said, until he is sure, he will do nothing, he is in a great conflict with himself. Even in this case, if it were so decided as to speak for the TEC, where it is necessary to ensure that the finances are under control and that we do not damage state property, in the case of these 2 offers, when the difference between offers was 100%, 6 million and 12 million, it refers to its committee. That's why I'm saying it happens very quickly for him to say a little too much about the magnetogram. In TES he is the supervisor of contracts and everything, and in the case of this unfortunate contract and choice for these car plates he speaks of the fact that his commission and his subordinates must do so. One day, he will have to decide who decides what to do and that he has nothing to do with this choice. However, I am interested because the reply refers to the Public Procurement Act and to Article 80, which refers to the exclusion of tenders, etc. However, there is also Article 78 of this Act, which states: "Acceptable addition to the offer". I would ask the Minister whether this provider, which "as" did not meet the conditions, was not exactly an exclusion factor, if we are talking about not submitting a certificate of this special colour which should have been on the tables, and whether it did not provide assurance that it had a secure warehouse, which some company could probably have arranged very quickly in completing the offer. I hope we agree on that and would save taxpayers 3 million and a half. And in that case, he didn't make the decision, but he said, "The commission has made the decision and let's move on." However, the Public Procurement Act itself states that additional offers are also admissible, and the first article, the first indent of Article 80, is true: In so far as the contracting authority finds that the tender is formally incomplete, it must allow and allow such an offer to be completed. And further, what the contracting entity later requires from the tenderer, etc. I expect the Minister to answer whether this procedure has been fully respected. It refers to Article 80, which refers to the termination of proceedings. I believe him here, but this law also speaks of inviting the tenderer who made an incomplete offer to complete the offer. And if he keeps talking about the need to protect the budget and seek the most optimal solutions, he or the commission over which he or she is in charge would also be expected to ask the tenderer to complete the offer. This would only make sense and logical in the event that the offer is twice the size of the offer he has decided to make. I believe that all those who have ever been in any position where you should decide and decide on an investment, or as mayor or as director, I think it would be damn hard to decide what you choose twice as high as an offer without using all the instruments and checking, but it is relevant or not. And colleague Cernač explained earlier how he decided in the event, even when someone probably suggested to him that this was the only way to solve it when the bids for the demolition of the toll stations were unworthyly high. And in this case, it's the same procedure. I must say that I am quite disappointed with the minister, especially because it comes from the professional side of the same industry – an electrical engineer. I don't think that all the laws that we've seen in this physical work in college haven't exactly read it all, and that he's very self-explanatory about certain differential equations. Above all, he wants to tailor the conditions of the goods in certain cases, but unfortunately there are magnetograms in this House, there are more records, there are contracts, there are documents to which he will also have a clear answer. And once again, I do not understand you as a coalition that, in the case of other interpretations that have been in Parliament, but also in the case of a fellow Stepišnik who is now sitting with us, you have different criteria than you have in this case when there are evident irregularities, I wonder how I will be able to take into account the Minister on the following committees and in Parliament when we find that he has actually lied to this Parliament several times. I am interested in what tomorrow's decision will be, and I really expect a meeting to take place later that rehabilitates my colleague Stepišnik, because obviously there are double criteria in this House for the integrity of individual ministers, obviously for someone else. It is difficult for us in our parliamentary groups to agree to this. I will absolutely support the interpolation because it is justified in all the articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, mag. Andrej Vizjak, followed by Mr Franz Bogovic, then Mr Branko Ficko and Mr Borut Ambrožič. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	Mr Krivec pointed out a very interesting thing, which is completely unanswered, and the Minister obviously does not want to explain it, but I think it is worth putting it more clearly or unequivocally. At the first point of the interpretation, we report to the minister that he forgot to tell the ministry within 30 days of his appointment, says where he is employed, that he is also 100 % of the owner of the company. The Ministry should inform the Commission on the prevention of corruption within 15 days and then find out what to do with these companies, whether to list them as companies with which the Ministry, public official or someone else should not cooperate. Well, the minister said that he did it wrong, that it was a crime, that he forgot it. In his response to the interpolation, he also said that he had done so after 28. 11. When informing the Secretary-General of the Mags of this limitation. Andrej Pagon, who notified this to the anti-corruption commission in accordance with Article 35 of the Integrity Act. It further notes that the Anti-Corruption Commission Senate, after a full review of the documentation, found that there was no dispute in the business between Lastinski and Darso in return and that it could also continue to do so. It is said that Dars could also deal with the company Lastinski in the future, because it is a matter of some legal entity, that he is an official at the Ministry and that there is a legal entity. Look what Lastinsky said to Dars. He says: "With the termination of our licence contract with Boschung and the decision of the KPK to place our company on a list of business entities which are not allowed to deal with contracting entities that are bound by public procurement rules, we formally resign." This is said to be exactly the opposite of the Lastinian witness's document, as the minister claims in his defense. Lastinski's letter says that the company Lastinski is listed on a list with which the contracting parties are not allowed to operate in public procurement. Who is now deceiving – Lastinski, whose 100 % owner is Mr Omerzel, or the government or Mr Omerzel, who is writing us an answer to the interpellation. Someone's deceiving. Minister Omerzel says that Dars could deal with the company Lastinski and Lastinski says that is not the case. These are the documents. I have this document right here. Who speaks the truth here, my dear?Oh, my God! But I've got this, I've been meaning to say, this deception and the lies are full of suitcases. [[…]] You don't want to face it, Your Honor, with the truth, and that's why you're doing it. Dear Mr Meh, because I must also say this, I have received a letter from the indignant Brezic, who is extremely disappointed with your findings, about what Brezice received from the hydroelectric power plant at the bottom of Savi. Because they haven't gotten anything yet. Let me remind you a little bit about how Tito Velenje was created, where you were at home and you were mayoring. Who put all the money together for this. And an apology for such an extremely ignorant attitude towards Posavje. By the way, when you pull the toilet water tomorrow morning, it'll all run past us down there, all of it; and what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Please, Mr. Visac, let's get back to the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	So, Sir Meh, even an apology to the Brezians will not be enough for what you have afforded.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you. Although I do not have as much correspondence as Mr Vizjak to comment on these matters, it is interesting how all this documentation comes into the hands of the individual is interesting. But it is true that the area covered by the Minister of Infrastructure is obviously very hot because there is a lot of money spilling around here, and that is a fact. Of course, not in the Ministry itself, but in octopuses, which the Ministry has no direct influence. The authorities determine the Court through supervisors and then the story goes down from HSE, across all companies, GEN energy, Slovenian railways, Darsa, etc. These octopuses have been created in the past, each political option has sought its own interests in them, and today's proponents have, of course, ruled for three quarters of the last 10 years. What are the interests here? It's probably not only human resources for its people, but they're probably material too, so we won't talk about the parties looking for their own interest in their campaigns. Those who built these octopuses have no interest in breaking down, especially when a new minister arrives and it is best to prevent him from finding an affair and things like that right away. If there is no real success, at least a little fear needs to be put in his bones to keep him calm. Of course, it is a diversion of attention from essential problems, it is a matter of trying not to have too much time for ministers to deal with the right tasks. I'm not going to talk about the points that are in the interpolation because it's already been told enough on the one hand and on the other. The points, I can only mention, the ones, with the exception of Lastinsky, are decisions from the past. As for the minister as owner of the company, a similar case, or affair, wanted to deal with Stepišnik, who withdrew. I'm not going to make a comparison between the minister and Stephnik. I'd like to say something else. Therefore, the goal is not to have someone from the real economy come to the National Assembly or to the ministerial area, but rather to have someone who will implement individual policies. Some of you have also said that you have been here for over 15 years, you know the whole issue, from the economy to the banking system. While the results of this knowledge do not reveal what you are exploiting. What's bothering me? At present the most topical of road problems and bridges, also related to the resignation of the Director for Roads, with an excuse for budgetary resources. The fact that the bridges are long hasn't happened now, we know that for at least five years. Any good master should plan and implement these investments in the same way, not when it is already burning and things are falling apart. Of course, I am in order that, regardless of the budget lines, money needs to be found for repairs so that no economic damage can arise. Where to find the money? Also from those past activities that we are talking about, which are within these energy octopuses. In the past, this money from individual activities, as well as the case of Drava Power Plants, has been invested in the failed investments of the Maribor archdiocese Zvon 1, Zvon 2, of course, all in the spirit of probably Christian values. We could invest that money in the road fund and then into the bridges. Another example is money for hydroelectric plants on Sava, money from the water fund, although collected from concessions, from water payments. Comrade Vizjak, that's all there is to it. We could also use it for bridges, for the road fund, not for energy. All these octopuses have been working with us for more than 10 years, and the one you've been with, you didn't want to break up because everyone has their own spheres of interest. With these goals and interests that you say today, of course, you should discredit ministers, the Government and stop the planned process of change, of course by trying to rule or take power and guide these octopuses forward as they have been set in the past. They asked me if the current minister was good — even himself. I expect more changes, including with these octopuses, and especially faster implementation in the field of infrastructure projects, railways, roads, etc. Unfortunately, with us, the Minister is required to be primarily politically capable of coalition keys, but not professionally developed with the aim of radical change. Unfortunately, the fact is that the right people don't even want to go as ministers, they prefer to advise from the background, of course against the payment, because they earn more as ministers. Otherwise, the Minister is not here right now, he has been sitting in the National Assembly all day, not to talk about when he is on individual committees, instead of dealing with operational problems, projects that would produce results. At a time when there is no minister, individual government officials, either at the ministry or through octopuses, do not always work in the direction that a minister may have wished or asked. However, other policy options of interest are on the ground in companies from individual octopuses and have an impact in their interest on the proposed changes. I will say so – a minister who has barely warmed up to show the right results, and these are infrastructure projects and order in the energy field; from individual discredits and from diverting attention from real problems no one will benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Now Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor to prepare Mr Aljoša Jerič and Mr Marko Pavlisič behind him. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Some of the previous debaters were discussing in a direction, as if we had some other interpretation on the table today, as if we were me and colleague Vizjak. In doing so, it must be said that you were a few years late. It would also be good for you to continue to deal with what is the subject of today's interpolation, which is the responsibility and work of Minister Sam Omerzel. And to focus on what is written in this interpolation and on the obvious that some have been recognized. Their weight is trying to be reduced, and for some things, the responsibilities are overwhelming to others, but we have known this for some time. As is normal for each minister to continue the work of the predecessor in each department, especially when the term of office is terminated after one year, of course it is also normal for him to continue with all the other procedures that have been under way. Also through tendering procedures. There's quite a few things that have gone on. I believe that open procedures for calls for grants for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by municipalities, local communities and a number of other energy tenders have been launched at all ministries currently covered by Minister Omerzel. Then projects in the field of railway infrastructure. The largest among them was just before the Minister came to the conclusion of the so-called GSM-R project worth over EUR 100 million. It is true, however, that some projects have also stopped or will stop because the 2014 budget has significantly reduced funding, especially for road transport infrastructure by €80 million, and this failure cannot be replaced overnight. It is normal to stop some projects that have already been implemented, as well as some that have been envisaged. It is normal for this to cause additional damage in the budget, as certain things will have to be done in relation to these open investments. And among these projects is the project of the road to Kočev, which was somehow set up, after a temporary little less intensity, and due to the lack of resources in 2014 will not be realized, as is the case with the Member from Positive Slovenia. As far as the bridges mentioned were concerned, I don't know if we're all so naive, if you're sure that this reduction of funds for the road area wouldn't be, but this money would remain that we would really witness some report that 20 bridges are life-threatening. I have to say, personally, I'm not that naive. One of these bridges can be said, on the Postojna-Ilirian Bistrica route, that there has been a project on the route where the modernisation of this state road has been carried out for more than 10 years and where more than 10 neural points have been detected under this project that need to be remedied. But interestingly enough, there are no neurological points to this bridge. I don't think we can all be too naive here together. This is a certain problem that is now open, but now that there is no one else, perhaps I would still hope to sign something in this direction despite such an attitude that it is possible to derail traffic more normally because I was a little more bold in this area. I believe that Minister Omerzel will no longer allow himself to do the same and that people and the economy will face enormous burdens and constraints. For this reason, I support those who are going in this direction that this situation has to be resolved in some way. However, I would advise more reason and suggest that these restrictions do not take place in the way they are taking place today, because transport can be resolved differently, taking into account safety constraints, and ensuring greater accuracy in the narrowest parts. Why am I saying this? I speak because in one part of the response to interpretation, the minister also praised certain things. I have noticed somewhere, I think it was by Mr Bevek that this debate around the gas centre, this is a good debate, it is necessary to support it, to provide dedicated money for the modernisation of the state road network. This is a very old debate. This has been discussed for a long time, studying pluses and minuses. At the time of our government, we did not choose to do so because we did not do so as did the government of Alenka Bratušek. We wanted to reduce the burden on people and the economy and seek rationalisation where it can be found where things are too rich. If it comes to a gas station, then it's a new tax and then Mr Virant's negative words, which he said, will be no more in this year's year of new taxes. Even if you hide it at the existing price of gasoline. Sooner or later, this reflection will be reflected somewhere. There is, however, dedicated money for the state road network. In our mandate, we have extended it to all other transport networks – roads, railways, airports, all transport infrastructure. This is the money that comes from the so-called compensation for use and the roads from some other sources, which together at the annual level after these increases are now around €150 million, plus minus a few million. And the first is what needs to be ensured and what is expected of the Minister responsible for this area to ensure that these funds are deliberately spent to return to this infrastructure, not then allocated under the budget to all other possible items. I must say that I am also pleased to see the continuation of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Development of Transport Infrastructure 2020, 2030, 2050, where our mandate has run out of time. It would be good if we could get to this as soon as possible, because, as we hear and read it, at the level of the European institutions, our programme for the future financial perspective for the absorption of cohesion money 2014-2020 has been assessed as the worst. The second worst, I think, is from the neighbouring Republic of Italy, which says we will have problems or will be faced by those who will again look for suitable projects for the smart use of this money at the end of this perspective. And in this constellation, I have to say, it is a wonder why this interim solution on the second track, where, with relatively small resources, some measures can allow the flow of this traffic from the future 82 trains per day, as it will be after modernisation, to 103 trains per day. Regarding suction energy, I would say, in this area, that something has not been done much or that this area has been neglected by the Civil Gazette, whose representative is the current minister. Not only the suction energy, but also the area of the economy in that part, I think, is neglected. Let's say Sve, who's been backed up for a while, went bankrupt. It is interesting, however, that only the Ministry has taken care of one part or one staff member of this Svee, who was previously part of the management team in charge of marketing, for the sale of these kitchens; and it is now, I do not know, whether the Director or the Acting Director of the Infrastructure Directorate at the Ministry run by Sam Omerzel. Even if nothing was done for Zasavje, we cannot claim it. Now, with regard to these interpretations, where several additional circumstances have emerged in the debate, which add to the burden on the Minister. I think it is in the case of Minister Omerzel, if we compare him with the visa to Minister Stepišnik, who was resigned, to former Minister Stepišnik, not the same situation, but in the case of Minister Omerzel, the situation is worse. In Positive Slovenia, we should first of all ask why Minister Stepišnik was, in fact, dismissed. What for? What standards has he now provided to this government and coalition? Probably none. At a certain point, he was a sacrificial lamb, because circumstances were unfavorable to him, and he had to make a move that he probably would never have pulled; especially if we compared the evidence against him with the eyewitnesses against Minister Sam Omerzel. That the Minister has violated the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in Article 35, paragraph 5, he himself recognises. So there is no doubt about it. However, this recognition was linked to some minimization of this breach. It's some bureaucratic formal inconsistencies he wasn't paying attention to. As a result, it is not the Ministry, and the Ministry, as a result, does not report corruption prevention to the Commission, the company of which it owns. But today, through the debate, we have found that when this licence was returned and Darsa’s failure to cooperate with Lastinski is met, it also states that this situation is also being met with regard to Lastinski, which is problematic by the fact that this company has been included in the Commission’s list of anti-corruption business entities which are not allowed to deal with contracting entities that are bound to public procurement. And Dars is such a subscriber, Dars is committed to public procurement. In this light, this breach appears slightly different than in the case of the company Lastinski dealing with the sale of fruit and vegetables, or ice cream, or of those machines which were banned in Croatia for the sale of cigarettes processed from telephone booths. So it is a company in the Republic of Slovenia that has recently dealt with a contracting entity that is committed to public procurement. It was only after the public disclosure of these circumstances that this application took place at the end of November with the Commission to prevent and place corruption on that list. This violation is not so innocent, but it is important in the light of what we are talking about. In one of the other points of interpolation, where we have repeatedly said that the minister at the hearing made a public commitment or something. some public commitment he didn't intend to keep. And that because the public was aware that they did not intend to do business with Darsa, then this cooperation, after informing the public of this, ended. Those who supported the Minister at the hearing, I believe that even those in the coalition, you probably supported him because he said so, and our company with Dars would not conclude in future new business if I was the Minister; which is in some way logical, correct and hygienic. Your support was probably also due to this, and perhaps now your support to the Minister has been after so many days since it was learned that the Minister did not intend to keep this commitment, as a result of the fact that he has now given up this cooperation "as". "Like" because there's probably no one in this room who believes it. We know how these transactions can be concluded, and the public will never know about the background, because there will also be no need for Lastinsky to have any business with the Council of Machines, etc. We're not that naive, probably everyone in this room. In fact, it goes according to our assessment, even in my opinion, personally, to a worse act than if the minister persisted and said, look, I did say that at the time, but in my opinion there is no obstacle in the legislation, I will continue to work. The second point we are concerned with is the violation of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants regarding the position of official, Director of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The law in Article 82(2) states that the directors of the authorities in the composition of the ministries, which Gurs is, shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister or the official responsible for the Director of the Government Service, as proposed by the Minister. In accordance with Article 83, paragraph 9, which provides that, at the time of the launch of the tendering procedure, a new official may be appointed to the position referred to in Article 82(2) of this Act, without a public tender, that authority may lead, in the composition of a maximum of 6 months, the perpetrator of the duties. Therefore, the Minister is not in accordance with the provisions of this Act, at the same time as he has launched, or only one week after the interpretation lodged, on 18 December, the competition procedure for Director Gurs did not propose to the Government the appointment of the perpetrator of the duties. And he didn't do it today. So the law in this part is completely broken today. That is a fact, there is no interpretation here, Mr Branisel. These are facts the Minister does not wish to admit. He blames me, which on 28 February gave me the authority to lead Gurs because of the fact that the day before that, after Alenka Bratušek, as the future prime minister, had announced the firing of all those who were not on the political line with her, he resigned as Acting Officer of Gursa, Mr Klemenčič. And it would be unhygienic if, at that point, I did anything else to get the government to propose someone to the v. d. to be shot like fresh meat a few days after that. I think that this would be unfair to him, to this body, even to the future government at its final stage, to the future minister. And today I hear something new. If that is the case, it is even more problematic for me, by Mrs Katarina Hočevar, that President Dursa is still working on the basis of this mandate, my personal one, which has expired on the day that my mandate was terminated, because it was a personal mandate. So, anyway, you can't put this on me or anyone else. In those circumstances, I did what had to be done, what any reasonable man would have done, not just the minister. But even if that were not the case, it is in the middle of almost 9 months and the law speaks of the need to initiate a competitive procedure in such a case and to appoint or propose to the government the appointment of the perpetrator of the duties. That wasn't done. Not today. When the tender procedure was launched on 18 December, there was no proposal for a government at the same time. In the second case, we read in the media when Mr Ficko was resigned, the very next day we read that Mr Sergij Grmek was the perpetrator of his duties. There was no problem in 1 day to initiate all appropriate formal procedures. This observation – it is said that we are now at the second or third reading – has not been denied with anything, except by returning responsibility to me, which I think I must say, also the appropriate level of Mr Omerzel. I didn't expect anything else. I have to say it honestly. The next item concerns public fraud in relation to the situation in schools. We don't report to the minister that he's responsible for these things, apart from that. However, it is obvious to him that he spoke publicly about the situation on November 8th at a press conference and that he had no idea what was going on here before. And then it refers to the pre-delivery records between me and Mr Maher and the pre-delegation records between the Acting Director of the Transport Safety Agency and so on. Do not mention anywhere that any audit was carried out at the Transport Safety Agency, which I ordered at the end of 2012, and that on this basis the Government is 6. 2. replaced the entire Council of the Transport Safety Agency, led by Mr Vinko Moga until then. On this basis, there has been the appointment of a new acting director, Mr Franz Pojbič, who has somehow begun to regulate things. Not entirely, but at least one part, and that there was also a law or amendment to the law in the procedure that would change the Agency. Simply put, cancelled. It was established on 1 July 2011, and in its previous operation it showed that this was not the best decision. This is what many arguments are saying. However, this decision has not been taken either. This law, this amendment to the law was suspended in May 2013, and it was said at the time by the minister that there would be a comprehensive amendment to the law that would regulate this area within a relatively short period of time. It's not like that. Of course, this will now follow, as we read from these reports and audits. Here I have a letter addressed to the Minister by one letter to the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, on 23 April, No. 1100-1/2013/12, – the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel, Minister – informing him that the Council of the Agency has made a public call, that a commission has been appointed, that 4 candidates have applied and that there are 4 candidates for the Director of this Agency to propose to the Minister that Mr Franc Pojbič be appointed Director of this Agency for Transport Safety. A little earlier, the minister in this Chamber said that he had not dismissed Mr Pojbič, had suspended; his mandate had expired. Now, if you'd applied for an invitation, if you'd been the commission, and if you'd been the best candidate, you'd have told him in the interview that you would've definitely supported him and so on. We're hearing something new again, where unfortunately the minister is getting himself involved. For he holds that his mandate has expired because he has left the Minister's duty and does not have this proposal, despite being pointed out by the Council of the Public Transport Safety Agency once again by letter of 10. Seven. 2013, mediated to the government to decide one way or another. The government has sovereign jurisdiction to say yes or no. However, the Minister does not have this power to chandelier a candidate who has been selected and proposed for appointment in accordance with formal procedures. And you'd better let it pass. When the flag fell and his mandate expired in mid-August, they appointed Mr Igor Velov as the perpetrator of the current duty. Why I also mention these letters — not just that. I also mention them because it is in these letters, both in that of 23 April and in that of 10. 7. very clearly and unequivocally written down the following. They justify why they decided on this Board of the Agency or the Commission, and one of the reasons is the following. In view of the large number of cases, more than 2 000 700 by the criminal police of registered crimes in the field of labour and responsibility of the AVP, Mr Franz Pojbič established a comprehensive system and programme of professional and internal control, carried out preventive activities, revoked certain powers, internal control of all documents before they were sent to the addressees, issued provisional instructions and started with direct control on the ground. He has drawn up a plan for the reorganisation and modernisation of test centres, the plan foresees a final transition to electronic testing of knowledge from road traffic regulations by the end of 2013. And so on and so forth. It says here everything about what the minister says he didn't know until 8. 11. Furthermore, in addition to assessing it as the most appropriate, they state that in the proposal for the appointment of Mr Franz Pojbič – his way of functioning and running the Transport Safety Agency is supported by the 15 member council for prevention at AVP, ZSAM, AMZS, the Association of Schools of Driving at GZS, the Slovenian Armed Forces MORS and the municipal SPV. The evidence in the annex. Probably the Council for Preventive and Raising. Annexes, evidence of the references and competences of Mr Franz Pojbič – 40 pages. And something similar in the re-mail, where it is expected from the Minister to do something after 3 months, is said on 10 July, where it says once again that some of the activities need to be taken, that they did not receive any reply after 77 days, that during the time of Mr Pojbič as in d. adopted a resolution on the development of transport safety for the period 2013-2022, that on this basis a plan was made to propose certain activities, but none of which happened. Again, according to the mass offences in the area of liability of the Public Agency for Transport Safety of the Republic of Slovenia in the period 2010 to 2012, evidence, problem report concerning the implementation of the school programme; and [[Incomprehensible]] Safety-driving programmes of 15. 4. In response, Mr Franz Pojbič, the Directorate of the Criminal Police, has set up a programme of professional and internal control and has launched independent and coordinated activities of professional supervision to improve the situation, which has already given initial results. Again, at the time of Mr Pojbič's leadership, this resolution on the Road Safety Programme for the period 2013-2022 was adopted in order to draw up a proposal for government material for the appointment of a board of directors, a proposal for the appointment of an inter-ministerial working group, a proposal for a similar plan 2013-2014, an internal and professional control programme, a rules on disciplinary procedures and so on, in short, that I do not read because it is all written on 2 pages. Who's fooling someone here, who's fooling someone here now? These are written facts addressed, including other letters addressed to Mr Sam Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space. This point in interpolation is also justified and cannot be disproved, it cannot be contradicted by some general populism statements and by the transfer of responsibility to those who cannot be responsible for these things during this period. I can't be held responsible if I haven't received this letter since I was no longer secretary. This letter was not addressed to me, but was addressed to Mr Omerzel, both first and second. The next item discusses what we have talked about several times in recent months in the National Assembly. It talks about ignoring the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the construction project of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica and thus allowing further auctioning of the investment. This is what we are talking about, Mr Meh and Mr Omerzel, about ignoring the conclusions of both the National Assembly of 16 July as conclusions of the Government's written meeting on 15 July, which I believe were prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure, as a result of these actions or imbalances allowing the value of this investment to be auctioned. We are not talking about what is a lie, which has repeatedly been repeated in Mr Meh's debate, that Zvone Černač, as a former minister, has set the value of TES 6's investment to EUR 300 million. "Determined" was said. It would be very bad to do what the current minister is doing to determine the value of the investment. It determines the value of the investment. I didn't allow it, and I didn't allow it, because it would be a political determination. You'd be incredulous, even if it wasn't against the law. We know how investments are managed, driven, and what are the powers and powers of the Minister in this regard. At the very least, in these circumstances today, the Minister should have not requested a change of administration, management – this would be a minimal step – after the TES, where they run this investment. He did not do this, interesting — why. This is probably not because now there are again gentlemen and gentlemen in leading positions in TES, who have been on the team leading this investment until 2010, which is recognised for a period most problematic in terms of irritation of this investment. With regard to this investment, the National Assembly accepted the guarantee and, at the time of acceptance of the guarantee, additional commitments on the investment itself in 2012. And all these commitments have been made, fulfilled. If they are not now fulfilled, those who fail to fulfill these commitments or their predecessors should be held accountable if their predecessors have not already fulfilled them. But none of this was done. On 31 May 2013, the Minister said to the committee responsible in this National Assembly – 1.3 is a number that is known; we must do everything we can to make this investment for a billion and 300 million euros. And this is where he should stay, at least as far as the Minister's statement is concerned. Imagine that I, as then's minister, would come up with a statement, and we'll do everything we can to make a billion-million-euro investment. Everyone in TES and HSE would probably be happy and jump to see how these things can continue to work irrationally and abnormally. You know that at that time a number of activities were carried out both at the Ministry of Finance level and at the level of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, that a group was appointed, which reviewed the entire dossier, which produced a comprehensive report, which was also presented to the National Assembly, and in particular to the Finance Committee, which dealt with the Guarantee Act. On this basis, applications were forwarded to the competent authorities and, above all, to the AUKN, which was still acting in the same capacity as the Court is currently operating. And on this basis, various annexes to the contracts began to take place in the sense of fulfilling the commitments made at the time of the adoption of the Guarantee Act. And one of these annexes was also about the coal price, which was EUR 2.25 per gigajoule already defined in 2009, but this commitment was not the strongest. As a result, the annex signed by Velenje, TES and HSE in 2012 was reinforced. It's fixed. And here's to some problems. And that's for the ones who signed this contract. So who was cheating? The one who signed the contract that he knew wouldn't have to fulfill, or someone else? Probably that one. But what's happening now is you're talking to him now, and he's not giving you some coordinated numbers, instead of solving him or proposing his release. We're talking about Velenje Coal Director. Is he politically strong enough not to touch him, or what? Among other things, he was president of Darsa’s Supervisory Board for quite some time when Mrs. Priest was there. But it's not that important. We expected the Minister to complete what his government had imposed on him and what the National Assembly had imposed on him in connection with that investment, up to 30. 11. And he didn't do it. And it hasn't been done yet. Even today. Therefore, the statement from this point is fully justified. We don't even have a confirmed Investment Program on the table, which you might say is now the number 1 billion 428 million is 500 thousand right and real, is it? And what is this number based on? We don't. By the way, even to Mr Meh, when he's always operating on these numbers and who's determined the value of 1.3 billion. The value of 1.3 billion was first established in the investment programme number 4, which was produced in 2011 by both supervisory boards, both the TES and the HSE. Again, this figure was justified, but with certain movements between individual items, as it was found that everything was not taken into account in the Investment Programme 4 and with certain rationalisations in certain areas in 2012. The same in the TES Supervisory Board, which runs this investment and is the first to be responsible for these numbers, and on the HSE Supervisory Board. She's been reviewed. I have already read to you one part of this review, where they say that from the point of view of the level of the budget and the other costs for typical time sections, this is found to be appropriate in view of the assumptions taken into account in the NIP5. And they talk about this from the point of view of the economic acceptability of the facility, the methodological investment programme, etc., designed in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation, according to that methodology, the economic eligibility of the investment is demonstrated. On the basis of the methodology used for the implementation of the review, as detailed in this report, and taking into account the limitations on the possibility of viewing documentary bases and model calculations, we estimate that the revised Investment Programme is prepared comprehensively and in general at the appropriate level; with regard to some, we propose complementary measures as set out in this report. And now, in your opinion, the Minister is supposed to do what Mr Omerzel is doing. Came to the National Assembly and said, "I don't believe this, it's incredible, they're lying here." They're lying. And the TES supervisory board is lying and the HSE supervisory board is lying. But we don't read it to the Minister. All we can tell him is that he failed to comply with the conclusions of his own government and the commitments made to him by the National Assembly in this regard. Not by the hand, not by the deadline. The next point is the car plates, because it's one of the mantras again, because Montenegro is responsible. I believe that this invitation to tender was published on 15 March, which was completed on 17 April. I believe that not the current minister, not the other ministers, not the previous ministers, nor the previous ministers, have I done so myself, do not write the specifications of public procurement. I believe that they do not write the items on the basis of which this contract is executed, but only sign the decision on the initiation of this procedure, under which they determine the committee governing these matters. In the end, they shall receive a report on the procurement carried out. I don't think the Minister is looking into whether any of the colors are in these specifications or not. However, it is the duty of the minister to take a reasonable view of the matter after receiving the report from this commission. Notwithstanding the formal justifications in the case of a difference of EUR 6.5 million above EUR 13 million, only two can be made in such a case. Or negotiation, I believe that this was not possible in this case; or a withdrawal from this order and a republishment. Mr Branisel said earlier that it was not formally possible to do so. How could I, under the same law, reject all offers to redesign one toll station because the bids were between €550,000 and €850,000 without VAT. How could I do that? I turned them down, all of them. The contract was later executed for a material lower value than the minimum value of the offer. But it is true that because of this I have not received any medals, thanks to the nation, forgive me for not expecting them either. I received an anonymous criminal complaint, which, after a year and a half, was rejected by a specialised state prosecutor's office, which I had recently received, because it proved unfounded. Thank God. I wasn't exactly sure this would be how it would be in this country. And the prosecution there states that it is not true what is evident in this complaint and that the conduct of me, as then minister, was correct because, on the basis of the second order, the performance of these services was carried out at a significantly lower price. So those who do something in this country or want to help reduce the value of public procurement procedures, get criminal charges, get a media negative connotation. Every so many media outlets pull this issue because they're being tarnished, czech, look, because you've got a criminal charge on your back. Those who act "formally legally correct" choose a twice-higher offer and are good, successful, economically, economically. Until that changes, the president of the National Gazette, Gregor Virant, may speak about how these things will be resolved. They will not, no, because you involve yourself in your actions, he and his colleagues, support these actions, which go in the wrong direction. And if you are limited by legislation to do otherwise, change it. She didn't limit me. This was not the only procedure so that if you wanted to, you could; and even in this case you could. There was no need for this process to end in this way and for users to pay twice the cost of car plates. I think the minister, unfortunately, did not respond to these interpretation findings in an argument, nor could he explain them in an argument. Firstly, because there are no arguments; and secondly, the infringements which have been demonstrated have been proven and cannot be denied. It's about things that we've been talking about, which, to the greatest extent, are reducing its integrity, especially in the light of the future future future of the function. If you confirm it at the vote tomorrow, but this responsibility will be yours from tomorrow. It is the responsibility of the entire coalition, of all the Members you will do so, and of the entire government. It's not just the responsibility of Minister Sam Omerzel anymore. With this burden and with this awareness, it is also right that you go to the vote tomorrow. Well, I would have finished slowly. With regard to this business, Lastinski-Dars would only say that, in addition to the obvious fact that there was a commitment made in this contravention and breach, where it turned out to be not only this but actually a problem, because it was a business with Darsa, who was committed to public procurement, the original business in 2008 was also problematic. Today we have not heard any justification as to how it is possible that Lastinsky, whose director was then the current minister, invoiced services 7 months ago after he was elected. Thus, he was elected in November and sent a service bill in December, where flat-rate amounts have also been sent since May. How is that possible? How is that possible? So someone who didn't even know that this order was going to be published then sends services for this order to provide services 7 months ago. This situation also sheds an additional light of non-creditability on the minister, in terms of his integrity to carry out his further function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The Minister replied, he certainly replied to those who wanted to listen and understand, certainly a good explanation. I really apologize to everyone from Brežice. I was talking about the program, the project, and I wanted to tell you how the investments in the lower Sava are being led, and that it is right for people to get the infrastructure; it just has to be clean and that we have not done it in TES. Vice-President, can you provide [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Go ahead, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I already have the word, only if you can assure me. With regard to Titus' Velenje, I apologize, Titus' Velenje was one golden age in which we built Velenje. Alone, there was no nuke on the lower Sava, nothing like that, and we certainly built it for the residents. Since we've been in this independent country, we've been trying to take care of ourselves and build ourselves with our own work, including development and everything else. And that's how it's gonna be, I believe, forward. So thank you for that, Tito's Majesty. Mr. Cernac once again said the hard words that the minister was lying about Block 6. I was at a meeting of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, where the director of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj and the Director of Holding of Slovenski Power Plants argued that a billion 300,000 is not a real number, that it is a number. At that meeting, the director read that the director who signed the guarantee agreement at the same time told the supervisory board that there were already 30 million missing and that he would sue the country. The words of that, that's what they say, the director here. And now Mr Cernač speaks here that the billion 300 is the one that should be realistically available because an investment programme has been made because an audit has been carried out. However, the number of billions 428 has no audit, has not been accepted on the supervisory boards, but is true. That's why I think it's one big hoax when I wonder who said 300. Here in the National Assembly, Mr Chernač, you have told us, Members, that the programme is coordinated to a billion and 300 million, you have told us. Because the National Assembly passed the Guarantee Law, and all the rest had to be told by someone else. It also seems to me that when I talked about the content of the interpretation, everything was already told on the Infrastructure Committee and in the National Assembly when we talked about block 6. And we gave all these answers. Mr Tanko could certainly hear them, or he must have extraordinary abilities to understand everything that has been said here, or to read and hear everything that has happened here. For all this, I propose once again after Article 252 that you withdraw the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Mr Meh, I can tell you that we will not withdraw these interpolations, of course. However, I would expect Mr Meh to be warned in this implementation that it is necessary in the National Assembly to speak the truth and not lie and not deceive. I never spoke of Mr Omerzel lying about the value of the investment. But I said that in this way talking about value is a political determination of the value of investment, which was sometimes done in some other times, which I believed was no longer being done today. Nor is it true, Mr Meh, that I told the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the law that the real number was EUR 300 million. You didn't hear that from me. However, I have said that this has been dealt with by the government, that the Members have received all the material, that you have the complete decision-making material on the table. And as far as I can remember, I'm going to go take a look at the magnetogram, and I'm going to quote it to you tomorrow, and you're very sick of how the government doesn't clearly define itself for or against this guarantee. These are facts, and please don't deceive. So why, Mr Meh, should I speak, in a political way determine the number of the investment, as is now the political way to determine the value of the second track. Why? For taking all the credibility. I wouldn't do that. Why would he do that? That's why they were competent. The value of the investment shall be determined by the investor. And the investor did it. Whether he did it with some fig in his pocket, or whether he put this investment in a numbered amount of money, he'll show time. In any case, it is not the Minister as a politician who will determine what the value of the investment will be. However, by his actions, his statements, his influence, and his directions, he can influence the number to be reduced or raised. No one will tell me that the statement that the number is too low, what helps to make someone think about falling. I'm not just talking about this case right now, I'm talking about other cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jerič, then Mr Pavlisič and Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have now begun the 13th hour of debate. As we can see, the debate is extremely interesting and the hall is full. I also see that we are touching the work of the Minister with arguments. Of course it's a joke. Indeed, we are constantly moving away from the darkness because we are opening up other topics that have already become clustered in this House, and we will surely hear further about these issues. I'll go back to the content of the interpolation. The first point is the apparent violation of Article 35, paragraph 5, of the Law on Integrity and Persuading Corruption that the Minister did not submit a declaration of property within one month of the appointment of the Minister. As we have already mentioned many times today, at a hearing before a competent committee, the minister made it clear that he owns the company of Lastinski and what the company does. He also made it clear that there was a business relationship with Dars, and he also said that there was a role to play for Eureka's European project. At the same public hearing, he also promised that he would not expand his business with Darsa, although no law restricts the business with Darsa of companies owned by him, as it did in its findings of the KPK. It would be difficult to see here any concealment of these facts to the Minister, since the meetings of these bodies are public. Here's some constant hint that there's always something hidden, at least in this case I really can't detect. But it is true that with the formal application to the KPK, the minister was late. Here, let me say that I myself almost missed the deadline for registering assets at the KPK, because in the month when I became a Member, many new tasks and meetings came to my attention. In short, your life is changing very quickly, and I believe that to a good extent, the minister simply missed his application and did as I said, to a good extent. However, with regard to the late deadline for sending the report, the PSC will decide whether or not to punish the Minister for the offence. I do not consider this to be an essential problem with the ministry or some great malice in doing so. Then, also, the non-transfer of information on the ownership of the company to the Ministry. In this case, too, the fact that Lastinski’s ownership data was not forwarded to the Ministry where the Minister was in fact in breach of his obligations. However, because he made this public at the hearing and also sent, although late, a report to the KPK, here I do not see maliciousness, but only a lack of knowledge of all the obligations that await man after performing such important functions. Yeah, ministers are people, too, and they're wrong as people. However, it is important whether these errors are made out of negligence; in the sense that they make some major mistakes that cause greater harm; or even worse, that they cause such harm maliciously and for personal gain — I do not see it here. If I move on to a second point, to mislead the public with regard to the conclusion of new transactions or the provision of services after the takeover of the ministerial function with Dars. Here is a talk about potentially new contracts that could be concluded by a company owned by a minister for a new period with Dars. Despite the fact that the law of the Minister-owned company, as previously established, does not prohibit the conclusion of business in any way, since the KPK does not prohibit this because Dars has no employees, but the Minister stated at the hearing that there will be no new business with Dars. And these new contracts, as we can see, were not. We can now speculate that this is because the possibility of a new period contract has come to the public in time, but the Minister's company has not entered into new contracts and the Minister's commitment to the hearing remains fulfilled. Third point, infringement of the Law on Public Servants and Under-Laws, issued on its basis, by failing to initiate a competitive procedure for the Director-General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for more than 8 months and leading the post under the authority of the President. The Minister made a proposal for the launch of a public tender for the position of the new Director of Gurs on 15 April, which is two months after the granting of the mandate for this place, when the former Minister of Montenegro gave this mandate to Mr Seliškar. Under the law, he may perform this function with a mandate of up to 6 months, so that the procedure by the Minister was initiated within a time limit. It is true, however, that the public tender for this site was not published until 19 December, a few months later, as set out in the 6-month period for the exercise of this function with the power to do so. However, it must be borne in mind that the Government and Parliament have worked intensively on one of the major system laws of this mandate during this period, i.e. the real estate tax. In order to prepare these systemic changes, Gurs and the estate mass valuation system were, and are always, key partners. Taking into account that Mr Seliškar is very well aware of the content of the Gursa work and the real estate records system, I believe that the agreement that Mr Seliškar's status remains unchanged until the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act is the correct decision. Fourth point, mistaking the public about the state of the school. As we have been informed from the media, irregularities in higher than 3 years of age are said to have existed long before Mr Omerzel's ministry, but in the past none of the responsible actions have been taken. We have also found in the pre-transmission report that this report between Minister Chernač and Minister Maher, as Minister Omerzel says, does not mention that a large-scale investigation is being conducted and that in January 2013 extraordinary supervision was also carried out. Whether he lied and knew it, and as a result Minister Cernač knew it, or whether he was misled and uninformed, it is impossible for me to judge. That should be the case with those who are also legally charged with the task. However, I know when there was a media coverage of these violations, that the Minister acted decisively and effectively without delay, as he launched extraordinary supervision of all agencies and the extraordinary supervision of the Directorate of Transport. In addition, the Ministry has prepared the necessary amendments to the Drivers Act, which will systematically change the legislation and prevent future abuses. Fifth point, ignoring the conclusions of the National Assembly on the construction project TEŠ 6 and allowing further irritation of the project. It is interesting when we discussed recently at the extraordinary meeting on TES 6, that some Members had been able to report to the former Minister, Mr Visiak, why he did not prevent further auctions of the project in all the years when most of the costs were incurred. Mr Vizjak – at the same time the speaker of today's interpretation, replied that he was only a minister and that he did not lead the project and could not affect the cost of the project. Today, he accuses Minister Omerzel of allowing further auctions on the project as minister. As far as construction is concerned, the story on TES 6 has been completed; harmful contracts have been signed, frauds about the real costs of the project have already taken place. Today we know that the costs have been known since the very beginning and have been misleading since the beginning of the policy. We also know that stopping the project would cost much more than completing it, as most of the costs have already been incurred. With regard to the report on the implementation of the Government's decisions, which Minister Omerzel has not yet given. The Minister says that up to the newly requested NIP material, which will already be 6 in line, until mediation, until the final version approved by the Supervisory Board 6 and the HSE Supervisory Board, will not be defined. Given the complexity of the problem and the fact that there has been a lot of deception, I understand and consider as the only right decision of the Minister that, until we get the right input data and thus complete investment data, we cannot talk about either the final price or the other parameters listed as a condition for the State guarantee. They cannot thus challenge the call of the National Assembly and its conclusion on 31 May. Last point, compensation for taxpayers in the selection of the tenderer in the procurement procedure for the production and delivery of registration plates for motor vehicles and trailers. This is an indication of the irregularity in the selection of the licensee, I would say the procurement procedure. The procedure was initiated by then Minister Cernač and the contract was published on the public procurement portals in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry received 2 offers where one was lower and the other was higher. However, the choice was higher, and the interpellation's proponents challenged the Commission's decision, which found not one but even a bunch of shortcomings in the lower bid. Indeed, I would not now list these shortcomings, but the fact that there were more of them and the fact that they were not only formal, even substantive, says that there was no irregularity in the decision, since the cheaper offer was incomplete and flawed. It was clearly necessary to obtain a larger number of points for interpolation and also a clear indication of irregularities in the procurement process. This public contract would likely appear as a point of interpretation irrespective of the decision of the Commission, since even if a decision had been taken by the tenderer with the lowest offer, the applicant would have seen a conspiracy here, as he would then have found that the minimum offer was incomplete and that another tenderer was injured again. To sum up, the evidence of what the minister probably meant and could potentially do, what he probably knew, covered up, and who he probably influenced to act unlawfully, is very much like a witch hunt. In this case, it's a witch hunt. This is already an esoteric field, and it is no wonder that people wonder whether we are dealing with real problems or imaginary problems here. I'm not going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. Mr Pavlišič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. We are gathered again at this session, which we call this time an interpellation against Minister Omerzel. I've been talking about the causes of these kinds of sessions in the previous interpolation, so I wouldn't repeat them here. However, it is clear here that the ostrich is directed at Minister Omerzel, but that they actually want the interpellers to direct the resistance to the coalition, not to tell the President of the Government to just make sure that the coalition falls. But here, gentlemen of the jury, you must be aware of one thing. The coalition can only be broken by a coalition. The opposition can't. It's such a well-known fact, so be aware of it. Why did the interpolators still decide to point their finger at the minister and not where they really want to go? Just because they don't have the courage. Here I was going to say they don't have eggs, but let's keep some level of this debate, so I'm going to be brave. And the habit is that for a constructive non-truster, which would be the right answer for these goals that you have, it is a habit to seek a prior agreement from other interested parties and it goes to heart in this matter. But what's more, it takes courage you don't have. But good morning, Mr. Proposers. You may also seek prior consent for interpolation. If that's not the case, then let's not waste this time here needlessly. Well, let's be clear. I do not object to the Institute of Interpellation, but in this case, the goal is not the Minister for Interpellation, but the goal of the coalition is not to tell the President of the Government. This broader introduction is necessary because this explains why the applicant decided on these meaningless and irrelevant findings, which he then stated in his interpretation. Eyewitnesses, all of which, from first to last, are attracted to the hair. Mr. Vizjak, with regard to your dilemma about the ability to write interpretations quickly, I propose a gentlemen's solution. Let's bring in the Minister for Interpellation and then you'll interpret it every month and it'll be resolved. So you will have a much simpler job, and our ministers will be able to do their job more easily – a job that is more important to the country at this point than we are here to listen to it and then explain it 42 times and say the same thing. Please, sir, didn't I hear the best? [[advertising from the hall]] In this case, if the Minister for Interpellation were introduced, we would continue to have the sessions we obviously need, but the ministers would do as I have mentioned. For the sake of clarity, interpellation is a serious and necessary instrument and an instrument available to both the coalition and the opposition. For some reasons only the opposition uses this, but it is available to everyone because it is necessary. Let us use this instrument seriously when there are serious needs for this, if the charges are justified and justified, but they are not here. Let's go in one order at a time. The Minister has reported all assets to the KPK. That's a fact. He didn't hide anything. It is also true that it has not been reported to the Ministry on the restriction of business, but still – the minister did not hide anything. That was also reported. It wasn't reported in any way. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear gentlemen, we have a crime without a victim. We have a crime without a victim. The minister didn't hide anything and didn't hide anything. There were also no new transactions, which is entirely in line with what the minister said at the hearing. And the deal you're reading to him hasn't even been accepted, the job hasn't been done, the payment hasn't been paid. In business, you see the content. But in officialism and bureaucratism, form is seen. Everyone does what they know. Some devote themselves more to content, while others know how to hunt the missing branches and the large beginners well, and I do not underestimate this work. But I'd say everybody's doing what they know. And you say what you know. Mr. Vizjak, do you even distinguish between the functions of the owner, the director of the company, the employee of the company and the ministers? During these functions. Do you even separate that? It's perfectly logical that the owner doesn't always know what the warehousekeepers do in his company. What's more, the best owner is the one who finds a great director, sometimes he's alone. But you know, he's an even better owner who finds a better director than he is. Let's keep that in mind. These are not the same functions, they may be the same person, but they are not the same functions. And the great director is the one who doesn't really care what his warehousekeepers do because he trusts them and he's built such a system that he can trust them. That's the best director I've ever seen. Micromanage is one of the biggest mistakes the owner or director can make, and it only indicates that his work is not partial. Here I must add that we have too many state-owned enterprises in Slovenia and it is very difficult to avoid the involvement of someone, some company with state-owned enterprises, which then inevitably leads to certain problems if this person, due to his ability, becomes a different function, let's say politically. It's also the director's job to get new jobs. Mr Omerzel, when he was in this position, did his job well, as he is now doing excellent when the minister, the second job, the work of the minister. Now, I don't know, you probably don't understand, but okay. That's all the facts. Lastinski did not expand its business with the country, all the rest are flooding, tampering and seduction, and this is now completely clear and these are facts. In addition to this disclosure, there is a hearing of cooperation or relationship with Dars. If you have a contract, you're clearly in a relationship, and that's what the minister discovered. But business by order is not a relationship, except from the moment you get the order, you do this deal. If you get an order in five months, "sorry" – that's why you're not in a relationship, you're in a contract. That's not the way you are, and that's the facts. If you haven't understood all this from the written answer prepared by the Minister, then I honestly say that I don't have the hope that you'll understand my explanation, because it's been said many times, and you're just asking the same questions, but that's the way it is. You are also suggesting that Mr Sam Omerzel then came to some business and that now, as Minister, he will reward someone because of these transactions, whether or not I know what you have already suggested from this point of view. You're implying that five years ago someone was pushing the road to the government of Alenka Bratušek, and another minister has to be replaced, and then Mr Samo Omerzel instead of the minister comes; and this was all five years ago, back in 2008, when he was doing business with Darsa, this grand plan already existed. That's how I understood what you were saying. That's a really professional fairy tale. And sadly, Mr Vizjak, I see that Mr Krivec has also joined in this, that he is of the same foho, that as an engineer and as a master of electrical engineering, who also in this National Assembly could stand up for engineers and have represented this part of the audience, that you are here putting yourself in a position from which it is understood that only a professor is suitable for a minister, possibly from a field where he has not done anything in his life. That really hurts. That's how I understand your position on this. I would rather see that we have as many engineers as possible in the government and also in the wider governance of the country. I have to skip a few points because I'm running out of time, but here I would like to mention this report, with which Mr Chernač has already waved. Review of the new KPMG investment programme, business consulting d. o. o., and not KPMG Slovenia, audit company, d. o. o. These are two different companies and here Mr. Cernač has found the only sentence relating to the value of this investment and no specific value has been mentioned here. It's just an assessment that's still wrapped in some kind of mystery, and if you take a good look at this report, you'll see that it doesn't apply to value at all. The entire budget segment and other costs. What is the total cost, if the pre-budget value and the other costs, is not explained here. The section on Pre-budgeting refers to VAT being included in the price, but we do not know what this price is, but cash flows are included if the financing costs are covered and similar matters. But there's no number in here. However, in projects that talk about billions of money, I think that the minister still needs to take a look at this content and look at it. But if he doesn't know himself, he has to find the right team, and he has to have people who trust them to get into it. Those who read it, forgive me, turn on the red lights for this project. Not that it's necessary to stop or that something's wrong, but to double-check it, he's going to keep doing it. And if you didn't understand that at the time, Mr Vizjak, when I explained this to you in the summer – in the summer I explained this to you – you can see this now that KPMG is the real author of this document, you can see what was wrong with what was happening when they were preparing it themselves. That's clear to you, though. Auto school. The Minister acted as soon as he found out. From now on, this will never happen again. The forecasting procedures are under way, a new law and so on. I have to hurry a little, 'cause I'm running out of time. To conclude, I would only predict that I will thank you for the sports spirit below this session if I have this opportunity; if not, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. It's Mr. Krivec's turn, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for this exposé, what we all know, what we think, what we don't know, and so on. I think we've been very misinterpreted. I didn't say that engineers aren't wanted, but that I'm very sad because I've evaluated the minister, given that he's coming from the same foho that he's going to be a good minister. However, once the minister has been lied to in Parliament several times, it is integrity, it is no longer about whether he is an engineer or a doctor or anyone. On the human side, I don't trust him anymore. That's what I was gonna say. And once again, Mr Pavlišič, all the interpretations that have been produced in this Parliament's not so long past on our part have also shown that we were right. Do you remember the interpretation against Katarina Kresal? All the conspiracies went that it was an unobstructed matter. Mr Lukšič was also intertwined about the Stožice. Now it's becoming more and more apparent that it wasn't a clean business either. Therefore, interpellations are a tool with which we can draw attention to certain things that are happening, in ministries and among officials. And once again, Mr. Minister is an official, he is subject to integrity and other legislation, as is yours. And I don't know why you're dealing with us. You'd better say something in defense. So far you haven't said anything and you're talking about a study that's in the bag. And if anyone has a "J" like you said before, it's [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] . I told you mine. If the Minister has all this information that what you're saying is in a basket and paper that's not worth anything, why doesn't the Minister bring it and says that this study isn't useful, it's not relevant. He didn't say that. That's what you say. Based on what? If the Minister says that each project has to be reviewed and determined whether it is suitable "for further consideration or implementation", he would probably find out at that time whether this analysis of KPMG is for the party to throw away, as you say. Let him have a "j" and let him say it, and maybe we'll change the guarantee. Until we have the relevant documents, we are subject to the documents under which someone is signed. The same applies to contracts which the Minister has signed at any time and for which he does not wish to answer. Who's got the "J" you'll have to ask yourself one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Mr. Visjak, as your proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. However, Mr Pavlišič probably has no sense of answering because he has given me the impression that I do not separate what is the owner, what is the governing body and what is the supervisory authority of an economic society. Mr Pavlisič, let me inform you that in 2006 we adopted a new Law on Economic Companies. When I was a minister, you know I had to take a little part in writing this. There are very clear limits on the duties of individual entities within the framework of legal persons and undertakings. However, there is no point in me in this debate, as the Minister's reply to the interpretation also speaks. [[…]] This is said to be what this form is, because the procedure is not so important, because the content is important. Then we would not have different procedures, not least public procurement procedures. It's pure procedure, it has nothing to do with content. But it follows that the wrong content does not come to light. We also have a whole set of procedural duties in the Integrity Act, which imposes what officials have to do; not because of the sinning of their lives, but because of the content being covered so that corruption does not occur. You, too, have in your Slovenian State Holding Act one third of the laws on integrity and some anti-corruption clauses. For what purpose? Not to come up with the wrong, corrupt stuff. At the same time, when the minister broke it, he himself admitted that he had committed a misdemeanor, that he did not notify his ministry in time, that he was the owner of the company Lastinski, but that it was a procedure that had nothing to do with it. But it's not like that. Minister, you were not in there before, and we asked you twice, Mr. Krivec and I, to explain this conflict between your defense, that is to say the answer to the interpretation, and the letter that Lastinski sent to Darsa. In your defense, you say that the KPK Senate found the following after you announced to him that you are the owner of this company. "After reviewing the entire dossier, the KPK Senate found that Dars is a property of its own administrative personality and that it does not have any officials in its kind, so the provision of this Integrity Act, on the restriction of the business with Dars, is not applicable. As a result, the Senate found that by concluding business relations between its companies and Dars — that is to say your companies and Dars — you did not violate the provisions. And there would be no breach even if the business relationship continued." You wrote that in your response to the interpolation. Look what Mitja Weber, Lastinski d.o.o., wrote to Darsa. He wrote: "With the termination of our license contract with Boschung and with the decision of the KPK to place our company on a list of business entities which are not allowed to deal with contracting entities that are bound by public procurement rules, our ability to execute your order will formally cease." Ladies and gentlemen, who's deceiving? Does the director of your company who owns you and writes to Darsa that they must not be listed by the Anti-Corruption Commission as not operating with Darsa or with legal entities operating under the Public Procurement Act? Or you who say in response to the interpolation that you did nothing wrong because you would be doing the Lastinsky thing with Darsa, and you wouldn't be in violation of anything if you were still doing business in advance. I ask you, Your Honor, for a specific explanation. And I have another question for you. You replied in response to the interpolation that the KPK would consider whether or not it would overwhelm you for a misdemeanour because you did not notify these restrictions in time. And I'm asking you, has he swallowed you up by today?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. If the minister wants a word, he'll take the floor. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! First, I want to make a point. I was detained this morning, but I wasn't here during the government president's performance, but then, after Dnevnik and the magnetogram, I noticed that the Prime Minister of the Government had also stated this that everyone, before it judged Minister Omerzel's legality and ethics, must first clean up at his own doorstep. This is outrageous, pressure and insult for Members. I am a Member of the 5th term, and I know that I have nothing to blur with regard to my work as a Member and integrity. And the President who then chaired the meeting should take the floor to ask the President of the Government to apologize, because I am sure that 95 per cent of Members have nothing to say and that this is how the President of the Government takes the credibility of Members. It's an unheard-of thing! That's what the Prime Minister could only afford if she went to Rome to buy her discharges. There, at times, they sold vacations and came clean, cleansed of all their sins, including all that happened in NKBM when she was the supervisor of the NKBM. Only in this case, but that still sounds a little medieval. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I've been following this debate for hours, and you have incredibly hard skin. You're not answering any specific questions, but you were asked to confirm with yes or no. I can explain this to myself why such an attitude and such an attitude towards Members. I am firmly convinced, from my parliamentary experience, that when you have run for minister, including the President of the Government, you will be assured that you will be able to find a solution and that you will be able to carry on your business – abundant, rich business, well-paid business with Dars and other state-owned companies. It's probably not your fault, because you were in Ultra school during an extremely strong LDS when those owners and others in LDS were able to afford that. And it's probably from those days that you're still wearing it, that everything's allowed. Also, the President of the Government was then a LDS saint in Kranj, probably carrying this historical disorder. And I'm sure that you, especially because you're an engineer like me, have such a logical opinion that you yourself knew you couldn't sign a contract in November; and in December, you put an account out for the last 7 months, that's said somewhere from April, May back. You have so much logic, that's what I believe. And then you realized that this was a crime that the ruling coalition would cover for you. Because one part of the strong LDS moved to the SD in the previous term, then they went to Positive Slovenia and you thought you had a protected back to do so, so you were educated in Ultra. You've been successful, too. I got a bunch of mail about your performance on the invitations. On Eureka under Minister Golobic of Education, it has been said today, for cigarette machines, it is not the most ethical thing to do under Eureka. You know, it's not very ethical, but Minister Golobič already knew what he gave, who he gave it to and what would develop. Well, here I read that such machines were already developed in other projects and that Ultra sold them elsewhere. And then this thing broke out by maintaining the weather stations. I read somewhere that there were 22 or 24 of them, then it was said for 200,000 a year. Some electrical engineer wrote to me, and for that kind of money, we could buy almost all the new ones every year. You can probably check that out. But I know so highly engineeringly that this was a "hoho ho" that this is part of the abyss in which Dars also took the country, when the highway cross was overpaid by 30%. It is only within this that such contracts could be so luxuriously distributed. I heard from the New Town Circles, a source told me that there were more such contracts here, not just with you, when former strong men made such contracts through Dars and other state-owned companies in the long run. That it's still huge and that it's still a leeches on the state body and Darce's body. You are, I'm sure, Prime Minister Bratuškov and you are assured that you will be able to do so and do so as Minister. And what is now visible, what we have seen, confirms that it has been so. In fact, when you were a candidate for a minister, I was delighted to see a successful engineer, an entrepreneur who has no incest with the former LDS, the current LDS, called Positive Slovenia; with a SD that has no history. No, no, no. I thought, but now it will be once and for all from a new party, the Civil Gazette. Now, after all the contracts you've been to, who you've been to school with, I'm afraid I see you've been sent to the Civil Gazette. In the night you seemed to feel, as in the past many ministers were close to one of the parties. She used to be at the Zdenka Kovac hearing that went overnight from LDS to DesSUS, overnight. She was close, she said she felt she was close. I asked her, and this must be crazy pain if you feel so metamorphosis overnight that you're close to a completely different client. She felt sorry for me, felt such a metamorphosis overnight, and it certainly hurts. This is where they used the same technology. In the night you became close to the Civil Code and everything is the same as it was. It's the same way to draw the country. Minister, I'm giving you friendly advice, you'll be successful in business, you're so intelligent. That's what they gave you wrong. It's been a while, you know. LDS is no longer as strong or virtually no longer. Positive Slovenia, Jankovic are "scrabbled". The press is a little more hopeful, a little more revealing. With this burden, with this pesos of both exact contracts, as well as a clear conflict of interests and conflicts of interest as a minister, you will not be able to live. So answer with short answers, yes or no. Tell me honestly, did you really not realize at that time in December that after 1 month of contract you couldn't put the bill back for 7 months? I wouldn't think of something like that, and she wouldn't let me. How do you explain that? Just answer that – yes, that's what I was taught, that's how I was raised, in LDS and in Positive Slovenia, they said we could do that. I'll believe you, and I'll say, let's have ministers like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. A lot of them checked out. Mr Lah is next, then Mr Tanko, Mr Möderndorfer, Minister and Applicants. It's Mr. Lah's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! I don't want to repeat the things we've already heard from my colleagues today about all six points. And then a slightly different version from your positional colleagues. I wonder, however, after all this has been proven here by documents, my colleague Vizjak has accounts, contracts, how you, Minister, dealt with your company with Darsa, as you said earlier, you made an offer for a certain job in October, signed a contract in November, and put an account out about 7 months ago. It was a way, probably, a normal way of doing business between your company and Dars. It wouldn't be wrong if you were doing business with another legal organization that had nothing to do with state money. Even after you became the minister responsible for Darsa's business or everything that goes on at Dars. However, this shows that you did not know what it would be like to operate properly with a country or state-owned companies. And apparently even when you were a minister, you continued in this way, you were allowed. There's also a bunch of evidence from Comrade Visjak. Let's just drop it. Your work as a minister is that of the 2 plate makers, although the prices were so different that one offer was once more higher than the other, you simply excluded the cheapest due to some formalities and that you did not then think that the other offer was too high if someone made an offer for a half lower price. Whether it's some kind of dumped offer or what it is. As a good master, they would probably then, at least, try to negotiate at a lower price in a higher bid or cancel the call to remove those administrative obstacles that have eliminated that tenderer at a lower price. In the second invitation to tender, they would choose the tenderers who would be somewhere between one price and another, at least the experiment would be necessary in my view. So, the business went well, and here you have your mistakes. Then it's just that it's easy to allow in your ministry's budget to take 90% of the funds to maintain state roads from, I don't know, 89 million to 9 million. Just as easy as it's nothing. We'd just leave a country road that's already so impoverished. Mag. Ficko has repeatedly stressed, even when preparing this budget, the budget balance that the country has 6,000 kilometres of state roads and money so far to maintain half of these roads. What to do with other roads, or simply push them to municipalities that do not have the resources, or close them down. What do you do? I don't think you've responded as a caring master to the fact that you didn't know the business, whether you were misled or not. Then Mr Ficko resigned from this function because he no longer saw the possibility of doing his job. "That's not why," said the president, "we have people." Someone who has worked in a very responsible position for six years knows all the roads in Slovenia, set up a lot of projects along with municipalities, led the matter well, even as mayor I had very good experience with it. If you ask the mayors regardless of the political option, they'll tell you what experience they've had. But for that government, "it's nothing, one man up or down." Let's set up one that's got some academic name in the front, and it'll drive. That's not true. You'll see what problems you'll have. Or it was deliberately done that when the new man comes back, you give back that money, and you say, he's never been able before. This one's now. You haven't shown yourself as a caring master in this ministry, not to mention the area that I've already pointed out to you, that you won't say you won't do anything for six months, and after six months, I've told you that you haven't done anything, and you haven't done anything until today. You probably just summarized your previous predecessor's program, which was a good week's minister; his program read. Besides, I'm surprised how your party president has different standards when he defends his people. Now we have an assumption of innocence in our possession, until it proves to someone that he was guilty of doing wrong, there is nothing wrong with it. When, in another case, the KPK found, on the basis of no evidence, that someone had sold the land for so much and so much, 100,000 euros, and where did he get that money from? His report, not even a draft, gave him an insight into how to defend himself. He immediately jumped or knew the results of this report, rather than everyone else, and spoke about the highest standards of integrity that should apply to Members, and especially to Ministers. And he immediately decided that we would no longer cooperate with such and so on. Where are these high standards now? Now let's wait. I'm not an example to you, even to Mr. Stephnik. "I won't comment, but let's wait to see if there's anything on it. Of course, when it comes to other colors. Now it's a completely different matter. Here too, we listen to various ludicrous arguments, addressing certain facts that are clear on the documents. I hope someone else will ask themselves, including the media, that they won't close their eyes now. But if these standards are now in force, then I wonder what kind of light falls on the other ministers. Are others allowed to do so, too, but the standards went so low? Even with your president, who is supposed to be synonymous with transparency, high standards of integrity, and I don't know what else. In the previous government, that's all we've heard, and when the President of Parliament was also. That way, I'm afraid I'm gonna walk right in so I don't break anything. Now, for once, this is no longer the case. Let's wait for him to find out if there's anything on it. And then those authorities that are competent will look a little bit out of hand and leave them in some kind of "chamber" like some frozen president. And that time will pass, until the new elections, whether something is done or not. Indeed, citizens may wonder who are watching us, listening to what we are going to do; if they are watching us at all. [[advertising in the hall]] Yeah, not our fault. I think it would be right for the positional Members, if you let this case go through, then it is a pity for Mr Stephnik. Because I didn't notice any bigger violations than here, but he had to, probably was the reason to come back between us. Some of your colleagues have already wished you a good job in an economy where you are obviously very successful, but in this area you have, believe me, failed and have not been part of this task. As the colleagues suggested, they would cut this debate short, probably do the Prime Minister a favor, so that he doesn't have to hang around with all the violins and defend something that doesn't stand. When the Prime Minister wrote a speech for today, she probably had not seen or heard of these documents that colleague Vizjak had brought today. He probably didn't have any before. I hope that she will look at this now and that the decision will change, as well as you, colleagues in the position, I think you can learn from this too, because perhaps in future you will have such a task to take along the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, first of all, there's a sentence about how the coalition could work better if there was no opposition. I do not know what hindered you in these two months that you failed to obtain the Minister of Economy and not the Minister of Health – the opposition certainly did not. I don't know what has been bothering you at this time, that you have prepared such a bad programme to draw funds from the European perspective that they have assessed it as the worst in Brussels. The opposition certainly doesn't. None of us are invited to form a ministerial team, nor have we been invited to set up a programme to draw up European funds. None of that. Mr. Meh, gentlemen of the coalition, the Civil Code and the others. You screwed this up all by yourself, no one bothered you. The other thing is that, long ago, the Minister knew that he would receive support, for further confirmation, he was in agreement between the Civil Gazette and Positive Slovenia when appointing supervisors of HSE – Holding Slovenian power plants. This was simply a 'deal', this has happened, in agreement; the SD has completely fallen out here and the social democrats must also support this project. It was a political trade. As regards this attitude towards integrity, words and recorded matters of this coalition. If what you wrote in a coalition contract or a draft coalition contract or in the Slovenian State Holding Act was a serious intention of the coalition, then we would not be dealing with such behaviour by ministers here. You have written in a coalition treaty: the fight against economic crime, the fight against economic crime and corruption, and so on, you have this in a new proposal, but none of this is happening. As for the Slovenian State Holding Act, you have a whole bunch of definitions, a third of the law, said a colleague where there are provisions on self-exclusion, on limiting conflicts of interest, etc. Then why are you writing this in a coalition contract and in laws, tiring the Slovenian public, doing PR, if you are not doing it in practice. Today, we have witnessed a number of documented allegations, further documented statements by my colleagues, who have supported all of what is said in the interpretation, with documents that are authentic. The Minister failed to make a statement about them either by saying yes or no, because it is difficult to say that they are authentic; I understand that; but they are not, but they cannot because they are genuine. In addition, documents sent by his company to Dars are available and are in direct conflict with what the minister wrote in response to the interpretation. It's a direct opposite. The Minister for Interpellation – if this document is held by the director of his company – wrote something that is a lie, which is not true, which is not. And I also ask you, Minister, whether this letter from your CEO is authentic, says the third paragraph is written as decided by the KPK. Or it's really what you wrote in your response to the interpolation and you've somehow tried to shake this dirt off of yourself and distract attention. Is that right? If you go to the KPK website, you can check it out. Does he keep your director's memo? You cannot do this business with a state firm that is bound by public procurement because your company is listed as not allowing it; not because you have decided to do so. You wrote that in interpolation, but because it prevents you from doing that. When the Minister comes to the National Assembly, when the Minister comes to respond to the interpretation of the obvious, we expect him to be credible so that his statements will stand. This is not a hint or an evil wish of the opposition to impose something on the minister. Maybe, but the minister has an exact, precise answer to these things. And with regard to these 2 documents – your answer and your company's document related to the first and second points of our reading during the interpretation, it is obvious that you lied or your director lied. Doesn't hold what you wrote in your response to the interpolation; or doesn't hold what your director sent to Dars. Unfortunately, all our findings from the point on TES also hold. None of the opposition has drawn up a government decision by which time the Ministry must prepare a report for the government. It was written there in July, 3 months, 15 October was "deadline". Minister, until then, did you submit what was submitted to the Government after the decision of the Government concerning TES or was it not submitted to the government? It wasn't. We can look at the government's conclusions and the materials delivered to the government and you can all see that this was not the case. When we discussed the TEC issue at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the opposition Members, the signatories to this requirement, proposed conclusions. They got hit by a coalition. She also hit them with the Ministry's consent. I would like to know, my fellow Members, whether you may have received the submitted report on the TES project by November of that year? Did you get it by December 30? Did you get it by 29 January of this year? Unfortunately, we cannot say that this has happened, nor can the Minister confirm it, and apparently this perception of interpolation is true. Also with regard to other findings, let’s say an obvious view of matters related to the school. There, too, it is clear that you received a report in April from the then head of Chief Pojbič that he informed you, at least as he said in this oral interview. Now I suggest you confirm whether you were or not, or whether this meeting was just protocol, he turned to the door and went. Also with regard to the appointment of Mr Pojbič, your colleagues have shown you that you have obviously made a deliberate mistake so that I will not use a more difficult term. Deliberately! The whole procedure was filed with the agency, you were warned twice, and you said what you said in response, Minister, remember? [[…]] Unfortunately, it's hard to answer these things. That's what we see. And even a team that suggests you're in bed can't help you with these things, because things are indisputable and they're written in interpretation. I am sorry that this morning the President of the Government came in extremely vehemently, saying what a man would not expect at such an interpretation, but he did not say a word about what was written there. She came here covered, telling her Members and the coalition that she was behind the acts that had been seen in the interpretation – and that she had not been denied, nor in the reply to the interpretation and even less in the debate, because the Minister had apparently not been able, even on repeated calls, to clarify whether they were holding or not; let alone a matter of substance. That the embarrassment is considerable, in particular the statement shows, is the statement made by the leader of Mr Jani Möderndorfer's largest coalition group, who said that we would give the minister a second chance. With that statement, he said absolutely everything. They are fully aware that matters are not in conformity with the laws, that the response to interpretation is not appropriate, but for other reasons they will give their vote for the fall of interpretation or for the interpolation remaining in place. He has not given such a clear message, as I recall, yet no leader of the Group of Members. Not a single one, with no interpolation. And apparently this coalition does not hold together content, does not hold a desire for quality, a desire for results; but it is held together by other interests. Now no one in this coalition can come to a function that has no sin. The human resources moves that the Minister is taking forward are and are going in this direction. Mr. Zhagar, who hired him in his office, is charged with Darsa's compensation lawsuit for business in Darsa. But this person was good enough to have been nominated as an official at his ministry of his choice, probably his choice, to the minister of choice, so that she could also be employed in his company we are talking about; and that he is now an excellent employee in the state firm – in the Slovenian Railways. So you have to have a mortgage and a history that weighs you down, so you can have an important function in this coalition. It is similar with the gentleman you appointed instead of Mr Pojbič. There, too, the media report that some irregularities have been committed in the past, including accidents caused, even written there, in guilt. And now he's the man who's head of the Road Safety Agency. Great. Great. A man with experience. You can't want better. And I think it would be a slow time for the government, including the President of the Government, including the coalition, colleagues, including those members of the National Charter, who had so many words about ethical conduct, about the ethical code, about the integrity of parliamentary, ministerial and functional benches, to make a move and react. Unfortunately, these expectations are obviously too high. One more thing. Mr. Vogrin was declared a black sheep. I am sure, my fellow citizens' list, if Mr Vogrin had the opportunity to operate in a way such as Mr Omerzel, his company would not have gone bankrupt. I'm sure you don't. If Mr Vogreen had the possibility that from day D, if he had been chosen as the most favourable bidder on the invitation to tender, he would have made a deal seven months ago and received this payment, his company would never have gone bankrupt. Never, we all know that. And a company of a lot of other entrepreneurs wouldn't go bankrupt. But apparently there are some sacred cows in this country, as Minister Virant says, your party president, who are apparently still untouchable, who obviously cannot be harmed by some great interests. And I don't understand that the coalition so loyally protects bad work. I don't understand! Minister, you haven't done anything within the time limit, since what's been reported, you haven't demented any of the things, you haven't rejected any of the claims we've made, you haven't given a counter-document, let alone a counter-argument. Apparently, in the coalition, you think it's enough for someone to sit here for 13, 14 hours and do business and two times after 10 minutes answer; and you think they'll tell you everything. This is underestimating and also quite significant for other ministers in this government coalition. No one answers much, avoids the National Assembly, evades responsibility and answers. Unfortunately, it is only possible to expect this type of work to grow economically, that the crisis will only deepen because everyone is primarily engaged in private business and secondary to the regulation of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President. Since I am the last debater, not necessarily the last debater, because it is still a while, I must say that I am sad. When I left home this morning, I also said that the day of the interpellation in the National Assembly, I don't like it, not love. It doesn't matter which minister it is; whether it's the Minister of the Opposition when he's in. [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] Listen to me, Tanko, all the way. When it comes to the minister of the opposition when he's in power, and when it comes to the minister in our government. What I wanted to say is, above all, because my colleague Tanko initially said why you are getting tired of the Slovenian public over time. I must say, this is exactly what I was sad about this morning because I knew that we would tire out the Slovenian public over time. But this path, not with the time we have prepared for the interpolation, but with the time you have prepared. Today you have heard Mr Visionak, who was kind of an entourager of this interpolation and has at least four times repeated in the beginning with the vehemence and then three times in different forms, but he repeated what he actually wanted. I have to say that I listened very carefully only for the first time, then not anymore, because I really wanted to know what was what he was going to say. By the way, we met in front of parliament 1 week ago, and he asked me, and you're really gonna give this minister a chance. And I told him very clearly, you still have time, bring something, show it, I'm waiting. And I've been waiting, and I've been waiting for this day when Mr. Vizjak came with his papers. Although I'm very sad because I haven't seen these documents all day. I looked into the system, it's not in the system; I looked if I missed something in the interpretation itself, which was submitted, I didn't see. But I saw Mr Vizjak waving a piece of paper, and I saw the extra papers that his colleagues were showing. But the problem is, I haven't seen them. The problem is, I don't even know if they're credible. I don't even know where he got them if they're credible. And in fact, I'm afraid to live in a society where the same party always comes up with documents and certain correspondences in a strange way. That's what I'm always afraid of in this society. In particular, I will always be interested in what is the business secret of certain companies, companies, and what this is really about. However, we have listened to the answers all day today. We know who is employed at Darss, when this leadership was set up, and we know who is actually serving someone and who is unloving. We heard all that today, mostly from that side. The impressions were rejected on this side to make it clear – Mr Vizjak and Mr Tanko. I don't need to defend the minister. The Minister will defend himself. That's why they're interpellations. And the interpolation is legitimate. And whoever said today that he was interested in content and not form, I agree with you here. As you've noticed, I don't like to sit on interpellations, but I respect the form, even if we're gonna spend another 2 hours and 9 minutes because we've agreed in the past that this is the order. And that's good. But whether in this form and within this form we will reach what we wanted with the content, that is another. Mr Vizjak said one thing at the beginning, which is called when he got the reading, of course on this side, that it was not "interpretation". It's true, Mr. Visac. It's not an interpretation. It's an interpolation. You got it right. The problem with this society, especially you and your customers, is that every interpretation is always interpreted as you imagine it. And it doesn't matter if you put it in or someone else put it in. And that's the problem. And that's why interpolation can always be questionable and problematic. I heard today that we're protecting the minister because we're afraid the coalition will break down. You know, the coalition is made up in the first place, and you know that because you've made it up more than once to achieve your goals. And how you defended this coalition, you showed 1 year ago when the ministers were leaving you, but you couldn't just put them up and one minister took over double ministries. You didn't even try to find new ones or name them, but you pulled and waited. And that would go on forever. I hear we can't introduce ministers in two months, even though we still have a month. But don't be afraid. You won't wait a month. Don't let that fear get too close to you. Make it closer to you, or you'll justify this interpolation. This is more important to you. You don't deal with ministers. But today I heard another stupid thing from that side. But this nonsense is said to be we want a coalition without the opposition. I'm sorry, I don't want that kind of unhappiness in this country. I always want opposition. What this opposition will be, but it's up to you, not us. Therefore, do not tell us that we want to be without opposition, but if you are playing the role that you want to be. Mr Vizjak, I would make sure that these documents were accessible to everyone and that we could talk about things; and not the last minute before the end of the interpolation, but even during the interpolation, that I could see a document and read some things and maybe also find out where you got these documents. I have heard a few more strong today, which was the most juicy and sweetest, when you almost took over a member of Stepišnik, someone even cried after him that there was no longer a minister, that you wanted him and that even a new session would call for him to rehabilitate Mr Stepišnik. You know, Mr. Stephnik, you don't have to rehabilitate. Mr. Guilty, don't worry, because I know who said anything. You do not need to rehabilitate him because, unlike what Mr Vizjak wanted to say this morning and, of course, he wanted to confirm his claim in such a way that he said that he had been abandoned and in fact he had to resign on his own because he had indeed been abandoned, in this context. We all know what he was going to say. [[advertising in the hall]] No, it's not true, at first, because you don't remember, we've been here too long. The problem is that Mr Stepišnik resigned himself, only you didn't like it, because if he didn't step down, you would be playing with a new interpretation. But today is the most depraved thing I hear about you not wanting to join your client for a while. He was so good for you. It's overturned. And it's a waste of time for this interpolation, it's a huge waste of time. I believe that by explaining several times, not once, the arguments you have made in writing to the National Assembly and giving the Minister the opportunity to provide answers to the interpretation of what has actually been done. It is very important to me that the KPK has also found out its own. You have repeatedly repeated what has been found in the debate today. And that's that they don't have a problem with what you want to have a problem with. Yeah, absolutely. And that's why you have a problem, Mr. Visjak, and that is that you have not carried out your actions, for which I have invited you before the National Assembly when we met. Mr. Visjak, you've been in politics for a long time, you've been in positions of responsibility. Interpellation is often the case that we talk 10 percent about the subject of interpolation and 90 percent about all the impossible kangaroos from the archive stories. And I don't know what else we're still pulling, but today I've heard again about the old interpretations, from Katarina Kresal to I don't know what, all sorts of possible readings. But what is important is that such an interpolation does not bring any good. Mr. Vizjak, I have one thing to say, I appreciate you very much, you are an extremely capable man to me, in politics, so that we can understand each other. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you can, because I rarely tell anyone, you're aware of that. But you must know that you must always bear responsibility for the things you do. Sometimes I think, I have to use a nice term, kind of a double, when a man who worked in politics and started certain stories had the incredible power even to influence and decide in certain steps to put himself in a situation today, as if he had never been present in that policy or in certain steps and actions. You know, I've learned a long time ago, among other things, because we're talking about the subject that this minister also covers — energy. Energy is not subject to party agreements. Only energy agreements between people in energy, including you, are in force; so are you, and Kosorok is absolutely with you. That's the problem when "mails" travel here and there. I've seen "mails" a few times before, where I saw your name up as a cover, not as a signatory. And I can see that this thing works. No, no, listen to me, be so considerate as to wait until I finish the thought. However, your Vice-President will be very quiet and will never warn you that you are disturbing me in this debate because she is your Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u209	Mr Möderndorfer, I will now warn you that you need peace in your debate, and you return to the subject of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I see you're getting nervous, I like that. In short, Mr Vizjak, you are one of the addressees who always receives certain mail when energy agreements are negotiated. You're always involved when it comes to making decisions. This is always my concern that people who stand out of a position of power in politics really blame their interests and goals for this policy. I'm not saying anything today, but maybe you'll find yourself in a similar situation because you're in these circles – and that's the problem. That is why such interpolation is sometimes very dangerous, especially because someone finds himself in that cloak that he is actually looking for and continuing with another. I believe because you are a respected gentleman, that I will never see you in this shed, I believe. Whether it's true or not, we'll see. But I'll tell you, it's exactly what your colleague, Mr. Tanko, found out. We will give the Minister an opportunity in Positive Slovenia because certain steps need to be taken in this direction and we do not have time to play with these things that you are giving. But when you bring a document that will lead to the point that the minister will also be laid with his hand in the honey; then, believe me, you won't need an interpretation. That's when the minister will probably go himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u212	It's very interesting to hear this. Mr Möderndorfer was probably not present, nor was he initially not, when I said that I had these documents and that they were available to all, I have them in my 1st copy, but I will not copy them because I do not want to burden the photocopying machines. I've shown them, anyone can look at them. If you'd like, Mr. Möderndorfer, I'll make a special copy for you tomorrow to check. I believe they're authentic, and neither one of them bears the mark of a business secret because I know what it's like; and I probably wouldn't get them. Practically all these documents were also published in the media, all of them. Some today, too, if we just follow carefully and read "clips". Some were even published twice today in the media. There's no problem with that. You said we wanted to interpret. Dear Mr Möderndorfer, I do not know whether reading from documents is an interpretation. I don't think so. And I wanted to tell you what the witness is about this for you, Minister Omerzel. First deal that Lastinsky made with Dars. The first transaction, the first contract bears code 1.518/08, pardon 1.519/08 and talks about the regular maintenance of road weather stations. This contract was signed 26. 11. 2008 Less than 1 month later, that was exactly 19. 12. Lastinski made an account under contract 1.519/08. Less than a month after the contract – account for approximately half of the contract amount and invoiced monthly flat rate for 7 months back. This company had issued an invoice for 6 months prior to the operation of the contract. Dear Mr Möderndorfer, this is not an interpretation, these are the papers that are here, look at them. They're talking about the truth, it's the truth and the basis for the interpretation, and you didn't know that at the time. That's one thing. I also told you about an interesting study. You know how different pledges to state-owned companies are fueled to do such and other useless studies. And one of them is here. Mr Just Omerzel was signed under contract and went through a transparent, open procedure because it was a small-value order, €34 000, to produce a study on the use of flat electrical cables in tunnels. Darsa’s experts have estimated that such studies have never been used and do not represent any added value. I asked Minister Omerzel if he estimated that this study meant any added value to Dars, but he did not comment on it. The problem is that this is how companies get their hands on each other, so it's easy to be a successful entrepreneur. That is why Mr Tanko also said that Ivan Vogrin would probably be a successful entrepreneur if he worked in this way to invoice monthly flat rates of EUR 4 000 750 per month for 7 months. The third thing, Mr Möderndorfer, which is not an interpretation and is also new to you, but refers to your words, is in relation to the position of the Anti-Corruption Commission. In response to Minister Omerzel's interpellation, we can read them: that after he realized that he had sinned, he reported – as a ministry – his ownership in the company, and that the KPK Senate had sent some view that there was no issue if Dars was operating with the company Lastinski. Thus, in other words, the minister wrote in his reply, but I can read it, it will take longer. He also noted that the KPK had estimated that even if it had already done such business in advance, it was Darsa’s special legal entity that there was no official inside. So, Dars could also continue to do business with the company Lastinski. And you, Mr Möderndorfer, have also leaned on this position. And here I am, Mr Möderndorfer, showing you a letter from the company Lastinski, in which it writes the following: and it is dehumanising in its entirety. Listen carefully to what it says when they returned the order to Dars, they wrote: "With the termination of our licence contract with Boschung Mecatronic AG and with the Commission's decision to prevent corruption, our company will formally cease our ability to execute our order." Lastinski wrote to Darsa that they should no longer be dealt with because they were listed by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. I don't know where there is an interpretation here, respectable Möderndorfer. Mr Braniselj also spoke about the interpretation. I will read you 2 documents – a document of the Minister's defence and a document of the company of Lastinski Darsu, which speak in a diametrically different way. The Minister argues that there is no material problem because he has been operating with Dars and could continue to operate, and Lastinski finds that it is on the list that the KPK has informed them that they are on the list of companies which are not allowed to operate with the contracting authorities. And when we read a little on the KPK list, we also find Lastinski up there. Dear Mr Möderndorfer, these are not the delusions of Andre Visiak, the dream of the SDS, or some greedy opposition to the coalition, some demolition; but these are the signs we demand answers to. But we don't get any answers. What I told you about the position of the anti-corruption commission, the respected believers in Omerzel, I asked him three times, and I haven't received an answer three times. There was no explanation, no explanation. I don't know, but it's again an interpretation of some baseless, pitiful Visian move. Mr Möderndorfer continued with the things that I am an integral part of some energy lobby to get him the emails that I receive. Then he is also an integral part of the energy lobby, because he cannot be otherwise. I don't know how we get the same e-mails if I'm on the mailing list because I looked at this mailing list, and I didn't find you. In my opinion, you have made this up a little bit, so, Sir Möderndorfer, I politely invite you to my office, where we will read the documents together, you will copy what you want, and I will interpret something for you if you do not understand anything about electrical cables. I will be happy to tell the difference between the flats and the rounds, I hope to know; and we will see who interprets who is a believer and who speaks with arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Minister, you want a word? It's your turn if you want the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u214	Dear Members and Members! A few words were said today. In view of the debate that took place today – those who wanted to hear my arguments, those who wanted to hear the truth also heard it. I am grateful to those of you who have participated in the debate, especially in substance, because in some ways this is also a confirmation for me. The presentation of arguments and content I wanted to do well to really show what is true and what is not true. Those who wanted to hear it today have heard it, and I thank you again for it. Of course, those who did not want to hear it will never hear it. It is clear that when you are convicted before a judgment, all arguments are hopeless anyway. But there is another knowledge that is very important to me today. Today I have received confirmation that this government is doing well and that we are on the right track. That's also what the opposition has found, that's what I understand today. All their efforts and their nervousness, knowing that we are doing well and that we are on the right track, are the source of all their fear. However, I must say that in reality, however we turn my short career in politics, I am extremely disappointed in this knowledge. I understand if, according to one rule, we hit each other on the political floor and go straight to the football game to win the best. But the opposition's finding that this government is doing a good job and that everything needs to be done to prevent them from succeeding — that's sad. Ladies and gentlemen, the same opposition lives in the same country as us, our families live in the same country. Trying to prevent us from taking such actions to bring this country on a better path — and that is sad. But anyway, I have to say that all these attempts only give me more energy, only more. I will do better, and I must say that I am truly proud today to be a member of this government, I am glad to have joined this government. I am not sorry that I decided on this path, it is difficult, I admit, it will probably be even harder when they realize that we are doing better and better and that Slovenia is on the right track. Today is a remarkable proof that this coalition is solid, I thank you all; those who have also recognized that this coalition and this government are on the right track. I am convinced that when I look at my work, that I really live for this ministry, I am putting my best efforts into it, not just me, but the entire team at the ministry currently sitting up there, at the summit, including within the ministerial team with the president at the head of it, is such an atmosphere. Despite the impressions that are trying to appear outside, I must say that my work with all ministers is extremely correct; and we all want the success of this government, not because of ourselves, in the first stage because we are going to take this country to the path it must take. I'll go back to that right to work. This is really the only thing I want for Slovenians and Slovenians that we have the right to work. Those who want to work honestly and hard will also have the opportunity to live a decent life so that they can take care of their family and that we will be Slovenians once where we have really been. The only thing I would add is that, according to everything I've heard today, I will continue to work hard, really live for this ministry. Since my team from the Ministry is here, I'm sure they'll do their best. Today I am taking this opportunity to thank them for all the support, effort and work we are doing at the Ministry. I am sure and today I also promise the opposition that we will succeed. We are on the right track, and this government will do everything that is good, what needs to be done for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much too, Minister. Now we could have a word with both of you. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u216	The historic wisdom of the Slovenians suggested the number of talks. One such proverb is: Thank you very much – the price is low. If you praise yourself or the government, even more broadly, with three quarters of the Slovenians on public opinion polls thinking that he is doing a bad job, three quarters; then it is likely that there is something wrong with your judgment or that he is very much holding what is in that proverb. That's one thing. Second thing. Dear Möderndorfer, we'll probably have a time-sharing, and you'll be able to respond to that. Have you seen, before, I have set you a dilemma that we have with an answer because we do not believe or know who we would believe – or the answer of the minister or the document of Lastinski, who are diametrically in conflict. We ask for an explanation, for someone is misleading or lying, according to his own words. Either one or the other, because they can't both be true. It cannot be what the Minister points out in his reply to the interpolation that the KPK gave him a positive light that Lastinski can do business with Darsa while Lastinski writes that he is on the list of business entities which are not allowed to do business with Darsa because he is committed to public procurement. Someone here doesn't speak exactly. Who? Mr Möderndorfer, I asked the Minister three or four times, almost kneeling to get an answer. I don't get an answer. And, Minister, I cannot satisfy myself with a flat-rate answer, if you speak the truth, but all the rest of us don't; and that you whistle at all the documents, obviously, which I say, for you are the only right and only and the only super truth. Look, I just can't swallow it. In these 10 minutes, as I still have time left, let me take a little walk over the specific readings from the interpolation that I've been documenting today. I love doing this because I have an argument. It's probably annoying for you, but it's not for me. Dear Minister, in response to the interpretation, you have made it clear, I quote: "I have publicly disclosed all the existing business relations between the company Lastinski and Dars." He said that in response to the interpellation, he spoke of public disclosure of all the business relations he had said at the hearing or at the hearing when he was heard as a candidate for the minister. At that time, he also mentioned that he had only 1 business with Darsa — that is, servicing road weather stations. At the same time, he said at this hearing, also literally that he would not sign new contracts in case he was elected Minister. And now look at what really happened then. In fact, a company owned by Mr Omerzel in 100 % was even in the autumn of last year for a new job – maintenance of road time stations for the coming period. It was negotiated, Mr Möderndorfer, that I do not know if you listened to me; a company which is 100 % owned by the minister was negotiated with Dars, who belongs in his portfolio. And you know what these negotiations looked like? It lasted 20 minutes and managed to negotiate by 0.6% of the reduced price. These were about the kind of negotiations that Minister Virant negotiated with Branimir Struklje because they were "fertik" before they started. This testifies to the fact that the negotiations and the offer made by Lastinski to the tender documents were Dars, a record of the price determined, a guarantee of the seriousness of the offer. Then the media, these unfortunate media outlets reveal this intention of the job, refer to the minister's statement and then the minister changes his mind and returns to business. He says I won't work with Dars anymore. I gave up 150 thousand euros. The Minister would never have given up 150 000 euros if the media hadn't made it public. Then the minister at the hearing silenced the business that his company moderated and serviced the salinity meters Room 20. Minister Omerzel once interpreted it in the Echoes in such a way that he said, "I, because I didn't want to moderate these meters, these bad guys from Darsa sent them to our company with a warrant and we brought it all back. The truth, Your Honor, is that the order came 21. Ten. 2013; 9 days after that, 30. 10. representatives of Lastinski went to Dars motorway bases to take these gauges. They've taken over 28 of them, and they've concluded a record that we have here in these documents, and I've shown it before. And then to tell me that they didn't intend to measure it, it's pure conjecture. Then, at the end of November, there was a public announcement, and the result was that they started returning these meters with a warrant worth more than 1 month after they received the order from Darsa. So, if I draw the line under these deals, I can easily identify only one – the minister lied and lied at the hearing and also later that he will no longer sign the new contracts. All the year 2013, by December, he had been trying to reach these contracts and had led to the conclusion of the contracts. When the media discovered this intention, the minister stepped down and said, "What's wrong with this, because I didn't do anything wrong, because I gave up all my jobs." Hello! How did this happen? It's just as if someone came into a store or a bank, better said, because the banks are now a singing theme, they wanted to rob a bank, they wanted to disarm it there, they took his gun, and then they said, "Look what you're suing me now, because I didn't rob a bank; I meant it, but what, because I didn't rob it." And everything's fine. It's not okay! And that's what we're reading to Minister Omerzel, and he didn't deny it with a single argument. Ladies and gentlemen, even the business of Minister Omerzel's coming into all this business. I've already told you this – putting back accounts and making some useless studies. Typical. Interpellation is even wider than this business. We have also mentioned the apparent breach of procedures in not naming General Director Gurs, Mr Aleš Seliškar. We have said and explained clearly the non-economic behaviour in choosing a twice-coster car plate maker. If a person were to do this for his money, he would certainly repeat the invitation to tender if he had on table 2 the offer of serious potential operators who are twice as different. To the minister, we have noted a type of inactivity and ignoring the Government's conclusions, as well as parliaments in connection with the investment in Block 6. To be clear, we are absolutely nothing to Minister Omerzel's responsibility or any merit or indemnity that the block 6 project was brought to this stage in 2013, as it did. But we've been telling him how to move the project forward since he took this function. Since then, the role of Minister has been significantly greater than that of any minister so far. Why? Since a guarantee contract for a loan of EUR 440 million has been concluded, it gives the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure an explicit task to keep an eye on the implementation of this guarantee contract. And the guarantee contract was signed under certain conditions. One of these was that the investment should not exceed EUR 1.3 billion. In fact, we have acknowledged to the Minister that he has started to speak out publicly that this investment will again be 130 million more expensive; at the same time, he has done nothing to implement his own government's decision to examine the legality of the behaviour of HSE and TES authorities in relation to this investment. This was the decision of his government, not the previous government, and not this Parliament. That was the conclusion of his government. He didn't do it either. Here's another important thing where I'm personally offended as a Member, because the Minister has deceived me at the Committee on Infrastructure 21 meeting. 1. when he made it clear - and that is why we have not adopted a decision which I proposed to obtain a report from the State Attorney's Office on the implementation of the Government's decisions on investment in Block 6. The minister said that he had not yet received the green light – he is already in traffic, the green light – to hand over this report to us and that he is at some stage in obtaining permission to give this report to Members. And that the procedure binds him to it. In doing so, he did not say any procedure, nor did anyone prevent him from giving this document to the Members. And then, when we checked with the State's Attorney's Office the next day, there were no reservations about getting this report. While the Minister, with the statements I quoted, was literally misleading and lying to the Members that he could not give the report; it was not true. Ladies and gentlemen, tell us how in the future, working bodies meetings – thank God, he is relatively little present at working bodies meetings, more state secretaries – how we can still trust him on the statements he makes when he talks about various topics and answers various questions. We're gonna have to check every single thing from now on. You, honourable coalition Members, obviously believe and believe the flat-rate defences; you do not believe in documents, papers, concrete evidence of violations and lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, because all the declared discussers you wanted have received the floor; but I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm opening an application for debate. Seven panellists have been reported, each of the panellists has 5 minutes. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. It hasn't happened yet in the Intervention of the National Assembly, but I've been here 13 years so that the Minister won't answer or defend a single statement from interpretation. This has not yet happened, nor for any of the things that we have proposed has he refused, nor has he given any other document that would prove contrary to what is stated in the interpretation. On the contrary, all we have said is that with some of the documents that we have submitted and shown in the debate, only an additional confirmation that the Minister did not speak the truth in his replies, nor in the written product that he transmitted to the National Assembly, nor did he write the truth. The minister had previously made a very nice boast that the government was on the right track. I'm asking him, is that true, is rising unemployment, which is now close to 130,000, the right way? Is the negative economic growth that we've been witnessing for a while and it's not changing, the right way? Is it that we have given the worst document to draw European funds for the next perspective the right way? And I can also list a lot of other things, even this excessive borrowing after excessive interest is not the right way to go. But what is happening in this coalition is the right way for some individuals who are able to attach themselves to different state-owned companies – either through some overpaid transactions or through some unnecessary studies to keep their system, their private system at some appropriate level. For the state, for the state-owned companies, for the public interest that you so like to point out, this is not the right way, impossible. If in this way, we can say, an unusual, perverse way of doing business with state-owned companies and we exhaust them, then it's not the right way. It's not transparent, it's not responsible, it's inconsistent with the laws that are in this country, and it's even inconsistent with what the coalition has written as a primary commitment to a coalition contract. She wrote this in a new coalition contract and also in all the laws on the agenda, such as the Slovenian State Holding Act. You are also going to amend the Integrity Act, where, verbally, ethical standards will be placed on an extremely high level; a practical part, and in practice you will not be able to implement it. Neither in so obvious infringements of the law nor in such obvious abuses as are evident in this case, the coalition is unable to react, is capable of reacting. Mr Möderndorfer has come to realize that something is wrong in this case with regard to manifest violations, and it is necessary to give the Minister a second chance. You've decided that bad acts must be defended against all odds, and with all your might, let this country cost as much as it wants. The problem is those who warn about mistakes – this is common practice and this response of the minister went in this direction alone. Let me keep working, of course, fine, for those 150,000, and for the next 150,000, and so on. That's the moto. In this way, when business relations are deformed, when forced into deformation and coalition cover it, in this case and in the following case they happen; then we will have only one minister who is not in any process – either in the National Assembly or in the investigating bodies. Once the liability process is initiated in banks, the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government will be on the turn; and what remains of it. And for that reason, it seems to me that you're defending what's in the normal perception of people that is irresistible. Defend your crimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm gonna go back to where I ended up, and I'm running out of time. There was an invitation to tender where Kik was selected for the tables. This invitation to tender was still under the name of Minister of the Republic of Montenegro. The audit committee has confirmed the transaction, which is the highest audit authority in these cases. Obviously, there was nothing wrong with that, and that's a fact. Now you're reading to the minister so he can cancel this deal. Yes, in certain respects, in certain cases it could, of course, be repealed, but this has not been fulfilled. And where do we go if we can get any public invitation to tender where we don't like its result, which we cancel. And we're cancelling it for as long as we don't collect the one we like. That's probably your practice you're promoting here. This practice has absolutely nothing to do with the fundamental purpose of public tendering. The fact that you cancel a call when someone who doesn't fit you is chosen and then repeat it until it succeeds – this practice is not good and please don't stick to it. One of the interpellations' proponents mentioned the conduct of the US minister, who sold all his shares when he took office. Correctly, it's not mandatory, even in America, as far as I know, it's not, but I'm fine and I'm fine. I read the article in article 25. 1. 2013 which has the title Why Telekom bought Vizjak shares, is also interested in KPK. "The Anti-Corruption Commission has confirmed that it is leading the procedure for the purchase of Telekom Slovenije shares by the Minister of the current Government." The then government, and no, Minister. And Mr Vizjak now mentioned that he had bought to deserve to serve as a minister — because he was then a minister — not by doing what he was doing, but by doing what they like to call buying shares. And I don't give a shit about doing that. All I am saying is that one of the proponents mentioned the conduct and assessed it as good. However, the other applicant worked differently. Mr. Vizjak, here's your picture. You didn't get any older. However, since I want to be corrected, I will add that this article does not abuse internal information. So we have the perfect information. Now, the previously foretold sports spirit. The Olympic Games are approaching and I would like here to congratulate the interpellationers for the sports spirit, which is probably also translated in line with the upcoming Olympics; and it is shown that they are also playing a game that they know they cannot win. They know they're going to lose it in advance, but they're still playing and they're playing this game very hard. More than that, their Olympic spirit is so powerful that they even organize such games, and all thanks go to them. Thank you so much for today's game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u222	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start with a sports spirit, too, because I'm an athlete by nature. Today I have very clearly and precisely defined in my first debate the result of today's interpretation, because I have said very precisely that the Minister will not answer even 1 question. Because to such facts, to such evidence, to all these documents – I believe that it is extremely difficult for the minister, but I may not know what kind of athlete – it is very difficult to answer such questions. On the other hand, I have to say that I'm kind of disappointed. I'm disappointed that we let the minister down with this. On the other hand, I would say that it is not at all a problem to find a Minister of Health, because the Minister will be able to operate there in his field, he will be able to display invoices so that he will not be doing so badly in business as well. I'd say, all those candidates for open ministerial posts -- it's not so bad to be a minister if they allow for lumbarisms, irregularities. On every third argument, the minister is caught lying. Not only that, but even so far away from this audacity, the marriage foundation and the lumpias are also being prepared for the future. I'm a technical expert, and I'm going to show you a concrete example. Energy law – how the Energy Act Minister presented the energy card as a famous card. I'm not gonna ask you a question because that's how I wouldn't get an answer. But in the Energy Act it is legal that the manufacturer of this famous energy card must have a special exam and concession so that 3 data can be copied from the designer. But he can't do that, I'd say, an expert with a professional exam, with an appropriate education that can design, work or control the most demanding energy objects; and a collection of 3, 4 data, which he can't do, and he's expensive here. Isn't that already a lump that's already being prepared? I don't know if there's a list of who's gonna do all this? But it's all on the back and out of the taxpayer's wallet. For the last time, I gave the Energy Act my assessment of the price of an energy card – 30 to 50 euros is the price of an energy card. Not as the famous lawmakers have raised the fama – the energy card must stand somewhere between €300 and €600 for simple facilities; and thousands of euros will come for more demanding facilities. It's a lot of lumbarity for you to legislate in advance of unnecessary things. This is a completely unnecessary document and an entirely unnecessary cost for our taxpayers, and this is the level of the ministry. This is said to be the charge ministers; there are still some job vacancies and also the lumparis are allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is surprising to me, however, that when we on this page show documents that are authentic, on the other hand, you say that they are as our interpretations, as if we have interpreted in our own way that we have made a translation of Chinese and written in our own way. And then some of you are defending the minister by how you got these documents. It's like that weapon at the Maribor airport. What was he doing back then if he saw it? The guy did it because he saw it. Now it will be those who have given these documents, even though they are no secret. That's how some of you advocated it. And if this is allowed in this House to overlook, on the one hand, where most are, such evidence; I hope that the media will also be able to produce a judgment for themselves when they read contracts, invoices, compare dates. Any small craftsman can see right away that everything's not all right here. And for you, that's all right. There were other standards in the previous government. It was necessary to strip everyone naked, and there must be no mistake if he is in Parliament. Now all of a sudden, it's no longer necessary. Of course, you don't care because you have to protect yourself, it's so hard to get a minister. What if you lose another one if you can't find these two for a few months? That's the problem. All of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, it is the blame of those who obtain the evidence, those who have given the evidence; this is from some other time. And we should be wondering if that's right or wrong. Someone said he was ashamed before. It will also be easy for us, because it is no wonder that Parliament is so popular with our citizens, because every six months we turn our criteria and criteria upside down. Today, it has also been shown and repeatedly proved and nothing answered by the Ministry. If this is allowed to continue in this House, then I really don't know. In addition to that, the scales on which we are purely on the tail in the European Union after democracy. The Ministry of Infrastructure is not that simple a ministry, I admit. Minister, at that time at the hearing, I told you that you had come somewhere; into politics from the economy, that it was something else entirely. However, you seem to imagine working at the Ministry as in the economy, in some situations where you have been given a lot of opportunities; obviously, it was not possible for Comrade Vogrin. And you can't do it that way. I don't think we should move forward, even if you cover everything in a position in one way or another. One day people will be satisfied with this, given the situation we have, especially the economic situation. It will be necessary to deposit accounts, such as these or other ones, so I think it would be appropriate for the Minister to withdraw, to somehow maintain those standards that have been in force so far, at least in your client, who has been the leading party so far. Now you've obviously changed the order to be on the tail of this, not in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thanks again for saying that. I will also begin that the mere interpretation was created because the Minister does not take his office seriously and does not take it responsible in terms of the Law on Integrity and Protection against Corruption. The reason we have this meeting, however, must also be attributed to journalists who have produced and pointed out some of the inconsistencies and irregularities that the Minister has carried out in his work. Maybe even someone in the coalition didn't like the fact that the Minister was doing well, as he said, and that's why the journalists were a little more attentive to the individual documents that came into the public and we're operating with today. There are no instructions on them that someone should not use them, no secrets, no things. Here's the question of who's benefited more from the interpellation. To talk about everything else, as was the case in this Chamber, about how the ministry works very well and how it is focused on new things, new projects and so on. Those who sit on this committee, we very rarely meet the minister and very rarely appear on the working body and most of his subordinates advocate these things. Apparently he has a lot of work to do, and he's also dealing with things that we're alerting him to today in this interpretation. And yet I would expect the Minister to answer any of these claims, and ultimately also questions that have proved to be very credible – increasingly so. At least I expected the Minister's response to the last claim or thesis that all infringements of anti-corruption legislation and infringements of the Integrity Act were deliberately committed. If we read his answer and his company's position, they're in conflict. And if we sum it up, we find that there was a purposeful silence for some part of the business to be done; we cannot draw a second conclusion from these documents. And one would expect the minister to at least say that he didn't, I gave the wrong answer, my company misinterpreted this matter. We are not even receiving this answer as Members. It's kind of beneath the level, also by the minister to the National Assembly. If we add all the deceptions through his statements in the past, on the home committee, at the hearing. On the last committee, when it literally lays down certain claims, I wonder what credibility it will have in advance, not only in the National Assembly, but also in public. I told him I was completely disappointed in him. He could be an expert, I admit, from the same industry I come from, it's called electricity. However, such an underestimating attitude towards Parliament, towards those who are sitting here and we are elected, and this is not what I imagined from someone who comes from engineering. At least some things would be due or right to answer and thus close a discussion and allow us to decide in some way what is right and what is wrong. Now we have documents indicating that these violations, which we are alerting to, are a fact. The minister didn't deny them. That is why I continue to insist that interpellation should be supported; with no matter does the minister regrettably deny it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak or I apologize, Mr Happy Meh before him. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u228	Good thing I'm a miner. Why did the interpolation happen, you probably know, ask yourself why it came about, that's your manner. You will always do this, the constant meetings of the National Assembly, the constant interpretations, the constant committees, the debates, the imposition of unrest, that's actually your business. The Minister responded to the interpretation, and the question is why you didn't put these documents into the interpolation, into the documents. This is how you showed them why you didn't do it before if you really wanted the right answers. Love Žnidar, energy card – this is really underestimating. People need to know for themselves that there are a lot of crooks in the world. Last time we talked about energy cards, there were 150 of those on the list who could make energy cards. Today, I estimate there are 180 of them. And you're talking about everything else and you're taking advantage of it for such sublime reasons. And the EU has requested an energy card and we have softened the energy card as much as possible. We will also be able to say this again tomorrow or when we discuss this Energy Law. Someone was talking about all the ministers being in the process. What is it, gentlemen? Your president is on trial. What's that? Convicted – what is such a thing? I don't know why you're using double criteria. The minister answered all the questions if anyone wanted to understand if anyone was listening. I know or I believe that this is because I listened to the TES Infrastructure Committee because we talked about TES, and it was already an interpolation. There's a lot of stories going on like this. Tonight or today, I'm happy. I've been sitting for 12 hours in the National Assembly listening, and in a way, I'm glad there's no argument. It is, of course, an incredible will to do that there will be no peace and that dissatisfaction among people will increase. Someone said today that you have been "made out" of the Civil Code and the Positive Slovenia. Yeah, come on, come on. Is that what this is all about? And that we were Social Democrats. But I will support whatever you think, not what really happened. That's just not the way it works. And when you speak like that to the Slovenian public, you're not doing well and you're not doing the right thing. Also someone comes here – Jože Jerovšek, he hasn't been here all day because he couldn't, and he declares that Minister Omerzel has been promised by the President of the Government that he will be able to continue doing all that. What about what you could do next? What could I do? Is this how it is discussed in the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen? And in the end, my favorite theme about the guarantee is TES. Once again, in the National Assembly, the Slovenian government, then Minister Cernač, said that a billion 302 million is the price it stands for. On the Infrastructure Committee, both Directors, Kosorok and Dermol, said that this price was unrealistic, impossible; they wrote, stated clearly and loudly and their document existed. But it is not accepted at their congregation or oversight council. But the document presented here by Mr Chernač has been adopted on the supervisory board, but it does not. I've told you this before. No, he's not, because it's not possible to take him out! And I said that 99% of the contracts are signed and that this number is what they're talking about; but there are still some things that need to be settled before we come back to the National Assembly and tell the real truth. That is why I would say, ladies and gentlemen, there will be interpolation, there will be what it is, and there will be interpretations of truths — just as they were today. Of course, I will be very happy to press that counter button tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u230	Your Honor! I was personally assigned to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group as one of the parties to this interpretation to present this interpretation today on behalf of the proponents. I'm actually a technical profession and I don't like to "load" or talk about things on an average and flat-rate basis. So I found documents that I had obtained in a variety of ways about this business very conveniently. However, it was crucial from public documents, in particular one media, which was very intensely engaged by the Minister for about a week before he decided to stop all business. That was the end of November. All these documents testify and demonstrate the accuracy of the indications in the interpretation. Neither with one argument of the same value, in effect, did the minister reject the readings in the interpretation. In particular, I focused here on business or on the first and second points of interpretation, which talk about the Law on Integrity and Disobedience – not just procedures, we finally found out the contents of the same law. Mr Meh has just said that the Minister has answered all the questions. Today, we have not been given an answer to the question of how it is possible for the Minister to claim in his reply to the interpretation that the KPK – the Anti-Corruption Commission – has informed him that there is nothing wrong with his company's business with Dars, while the same company in Lastinski writes to Dars that it can no longer deal with Dars in the future, because it is included in the list of KPK companies which are not allowed to deal with the contracting party. Dear Mr Meh, if you have heard this answer, for I am not, you must tell me, because you have a procedural response. Mrs Brunskole, your former party colleague, will gladly give you her word. Because I would really like to hear this answer, if not from the minister, or from you, how this is possible; or from the all-knowing Mr Pavlisic. I want this answer, I don't care who it is, but I didn't get it; it's just one of many answers. Dearly respected, when we dissected the Minister's business – from business to business – we have found that there is really no argument on these elements of interpolation when he was trying to make a mistake, let's say that he did not resolve or advocate the non-name of Mr Franz Pojbič as director of the Agency. We found paper that proves otherwise. He got involved, and we had to prove again and again with the documents that he didn't. A typical case with Mr Franz Pojbič – the Transport Safety Agency's Council has chosen Mr Pojbič for the next term and the Minister has not appointed him and has appointed another. Then do not conclude that it was not his exclusive decision not to do so; that the Commission proposed to him and he decided not to do so. That's what the paper says, Mr. Meh, because we give it to you, it's no problem, you'll see it, because you can get it yourself if you want it, but you don't want it. Ladies and gentlemen, we later spread the story on the basis of this interpretation, when we saw that the arguments about the poor or ineffective work of the Minister were quite something. We have also mentioned your coalition contract and the non-execution of those specific commitments that relate to one year. You wrote down that a concession contract would be signed for the construction of the mid-Savian chain. It wasn't signed in four months after the show, so it's part of the department. You wrote that within three months, electricity will be cheap for industrial clothing, but it doesn't. You wrote that you would do a six-month simplification of spatial legislation, and the Minister didn't propose any of that. Not to mention the misery related to maintenance of state roads, especially on a semi-closed bridge. These are all packs in the career of a minister who thinks he's extremely good and he's always making reference to it and he's justifying our evil intentions. Your Honor, I'm sure we've proven [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, as president, I cannot replicate to you because you have previously given my name a false statement, so let me conclude even as you have begun to say it is milder. For the first time in my life, I am a member of a political party where I am now a Member of Parliament, but I cannot discuss this. That's a fact. I'm closing the debate on interpolation. The National Assembly will vote on Thursday, 30 January 2014, in the framework of the vote tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Well, hello and good night!
