ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Ludmila Novak from 13.30 p.m., Jan Mahnic, Ivan Hršak, Marjan Dolinšek, Alexander Kavčič, mag. Matthew Tonin from 13.30 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Miha Kordish and Franz Breznik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 11. On a daily basis, that's on the 19th. Regular Report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2013 The 19th periodic report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, distinguished and esteemed Members and Members of Parliament! This is the second annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am presenting here in the National Assembly, together with the report of the State Preventive Mechanism, but for the first time in my mandate, that is, for 2013, when I took up this role in February. At the same time, it is a great opportunity for me to thank everyone in the collective of the Ombudsman, who has contributed in his work to the extent that we have reviewed everything that has happened in Slovenia in the past year, and to assess whether it is human rights violations. As you can see, it is also a slightly different report, for it represents not only recommendations and builds and identifies mistakes, but also for the first time praises those who deserve it. And I wish for the future to have more such praises, for even after the Ombudsman has found or warned of a violation of human rights, there is still time for the report to be written to determine whether anything can be corrected and thus to be changed for the benefit of the people. I must point out that it bears the date of June of this year, but covers the period of last year, up to 31. 12.2013, which means that this is also the appropriate response report of the Government, which finds in some parts that changes have already been made by the Ombudsman or someone else in that country and that some of the recommendations, at least some, have already received a response. What are the general findings, given that it was presented at the meeting with the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before all ministers, in the State Council and also before our mother's Human Rights Commission, who knows and also reports in the National Assembly on what they have seen and what the vote was. The general findings, I am happy for them, are that it is worth all the attention, respect, consideration and that our recommendations are valid. It is, of course, an excellent opportunity, not only to be here in the National Assembly, but also to the Slovenian public, who is watching us closely and watching us through TV Slovenia’s 3rd programme, let us in particular tell you where we are and where we are going with regard to human rights. But I have to tell you when I'm 12. 11. 2014 in Zagorje near Savi did business outside the seat with my colleagues and I promised the people there to report what they wanted me to deliver to you. The first came to a meeting early in the morning with a 50 - year - old mother and a 30 - year - old son. Both unemployed, both on the verge of crying and both said that they were unemployed and did not hope to get one. Their family, however, is supported by their grandmother, whom they hope each day to live with her pension. And what did you want me to tell you here? To deal less with yourself and to think more about those who are out there, old, sick, poor, disabled, people with 269 euros a month to live with, those who are looking for food in charities and also, unfortunately, when in the trash. That there are children out there, that out there are different, people with special needs who sometimes can't understand you. And I promised to do it for these people today, because the guardian is a beacon. The Keeper must constantly meet the people who come to us, who write to us, who are on the brink of despair, crying, from suicide, and who say, "Save us! Tell those who decide that many things are wrong, that laws must be respected or changed." Many in the country are waiting for the new National Assembly – many hopes have been placed in you – to do their work thoroughly, that you are also a supervisory institution and that you really do what these people will not say, as they often tell us: "We are on the verge of despair, we have nothing to lose. What do we do?" They even come with a threat that someone in this country will be a victim, that they will drop a bomb, that something will happen. Believe me, as guardians and as employees of us, people who receive them day after day and listen to them are extremely difficult. You don't know what I'd say, whether I'd give them hope or send them to read our report, czech, see what any guardian who is your ally recommends to this country. Well, there's a lot of them out there waiting for what you're about to say. In 2013, so our report dates back a year, with the Ombudsman, there were the most calls that 11 thousand 800 people called. Most initiatives in all years, most visits. I've accepted over 250 people as my own guardian. There were 291 people in 13 foreign businesses, which is also a record. We have met with many NGOs. Know that there are many to watch over many. Over the different, over the environment, over everything that's going on. And sometimes, unfortunately, they're the only hope for people. Because they say if we don't get together, who will help us. We also had many initiatives on our own. So, we have opened them with regard to a number of people's responses when they ask me if the guardian works, I say: it works. And all people are aware of the need to do well. What are our general findings? The first is in the style of the first page. I used Phil Bosmans' thought about the tractor, about the bulldozer, and about the little plants. I wanted to say that a man in this country is often small and alone, unheard of. In front of it are large doors of state institutions, which open either too slowly or quickly behind them, and do not have people entering them without a proper education. You should have a good legal education so that you can get to know all the legislative changes in order to get to the path that brings you a solution. We would like to draw attention to many of the rapid changes in legislation. We know you're in trouble, we know that a lot of laws need to be changed. But when someone reminds you that it will not be good for the state to have to pay damages at some point because of decisions made by domestic or foreign courts, it is important to pay attention. We're still seeing long, long procedures, not everywhere, improving, and that's what I can praise. But there are some things that drag on too long and give people this time no advantage, but it marks them. And any solution that comes too late is not a solution. There's still guilt repairs here. We are warned by many war veterans, war invalids, victims of extrajudicial beatings. Let us learn that history also has its dark side, and let us end this story by properly burying the victims, building a monument, and telling young people, especially our children: History is such and cannot be changed now because it is the past. But let's not deal with it without doing some end to it without saying good-bye to everyone, no matter who they are. It's a story to end. A worthy burial, a mark, and we can finally be proud of the reconciliation. Of course, there are vulnerable groups I've talked about, disabled people, children, special needs, the elderly, Roma. Just now, a UN European expert has been in a hurry here, probably with you, and she has been asking how the elderly are being treated. There are more each day, and there are also many things to consider that touch them. Here is the question of coexistence, discrimination, tolerance for others, even for believers. In short, everyone has their rights and you have no right to violate them, but it is your duty to respect them. There's a lot of hostility and a violation of public ethics. The guardian is also asked if this is already an hate speech. Believe me, if we were dealing only with this, our work would be more difficult. There are others who need to judge this, but the Ombudsman never forgets that the ethics of public words must be present everywhere, especially in the temple of democracy. There is also a restriction on personal freedom, which my deputy, who covers this area in the framework of the State preventive mechanism, is very much engaged in. This is a special report that you have received, which has also been translated in English, right at the end of the day, and shows how it is in these institutions. Or do we respect the human rights of those, including the elderly, including those in psychiatric hospitals and homes. Poverty. Since 2008, we've been alerting her, now she's here. Many talk about the rise in poverty to children, but not to those who have earned a pension, to those who want to work, but to those who do not. Indeed, we can boast of a percentage of the less unemployed – whether this is a success, I ask you, especially, how rights are violated for those who are still employed are almost in a slave relationship. We have a lot of people who can take advantage of all the holes in the law, and they say, it's almost legal, but we're wondering if it's moral. Here is an environment that warns us that there must be no capital before health. Health is the one that is most important and, therefore, sometimes it is necessary to ask ourselves what we will leave to the craftsmen. Don't we feel uncomfortable that the air will be so that there will be a smell here, that there will be noise, PM 10 particles when we don't see them, because there is a capital advantage. When we heard from Chinese guests yesterday that there is still good air, we must not be comforted by this, for every time we too can change a lot of things, and there will be no one else to praise. Our international cooperation is also strong, so we are very active in various areas to take our experience into Europe and the world, and many foreigners are coming to us in particular within the framework of the national preventive mechanism. However, we do not yet have national human rights institutions. There's a lot of talk about that in our report. We do not yet have an advocate for the principle of equality, which must be independent. What do we expect? We expect the realization of everything that has been promised many times, but only the letter on paper. The letter still remains and we wonder when it will be realized. Cooperation between ministries is essential because it is difficult to gather two or three of them together and do something right for those who have been violated by human rights in these areas. The deadlines for the adoption of a number of laws, in particular by-laws, are over or approaching at the end of 2013. Where are we? I can ask you. People with special needs. I'm sure they deserve more. They are those who are injured at birth who are concerned about their parents until their death. Indeed, the life expectancy of these people has increased, but why do we have so many waiting in the work centres that their number reaches 500 or 600. Why we have so long to decide on complaints, we also ask ourselves this question, and we want to shorten it so that those who are already affected by disability or otherwise can be taken care of from birth. And not to say one day, we've done enough, but not everything. I guess I won't be able to say a lot of things, so I'll be able to be in the other part. We have a problem of health care, housing legislation, payroll control, prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, which reminds me that it is particularly important that we respect legislation and confiscate property. And because I have to finish [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'd like to tell you about the conclusion. I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities shall be held at its 2nd meeting, on 29. Ten. 2014 discussed the Nineteenth Regular Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman provided an additional explanation for the report in which she presented its structure and some changes in relation to previous years. She mentioned a number of recommendations, some of which are unfortunately repeated from year to year. Among other things, she stressed the various visits, contacts and meetings that the Ombudsman had with individuals, groups, representatives of the local community. She drew attention to a hate speech that is still present. In particular, it highlighted too long of the procedures before the state authorities and too weak of state control in certain areas. She said that the Ombudsman paid considerable attention to minorities and various civil initiatives. She noted that they had dealt with many health problems and added that health should not depend on the material position of an individual. The representative of the Council of State noted, inter alia, that the Ombudsman’s recommendations are also repeated year after year, which is worrying. The Council of State considers that public authorities and holders of public powers, in particular the supervisory authorities, should take care to resolve most cases of infringements on their own or in cooperation with other authorities. The representative of the Ministry of Justice said that the Government assessed the report as a quality report and the recommendations it contained were a valuable source of follow-up. He added that, unfortunately, it was not possible to achieve all of them, but they would recommend a guideline for the further work and conduct of the Ministry of Justice and the Government. In his presentation, the representative of the Supreme Court mentioned the Ombudsman's recommendations and said that it was particularly important whether they were due to systemic errors. In the field of justice, he considered that steps had been taken in particular with regard to the trial within a reasonable time frame where the situation was corrected. The President of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions also referred to the recommendations of the Ombudsman relating to the prison issue. He highlighted good cooperation with the Ombudsman and reiterated the staff deficit, which, of course, has negative consequences, which are evident. The advocate of the principle of equality mentioned the contribution he had made in relation to the Ombudsman's report. He highlighted the persistent inertia of failure to resolve problems and non-response the recommendations of international institutions. He said that he lacked the possibility of co-operation in various forums where he could present the relevant issue. In the ensuing debate, the members and members of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities gave their views and observations on the content of the report. Among other things, it has been said that some of the Ombudsman’s findings are repeated, but problems are still not resolved. The content of the report shows that human rights violations are present in many areas. Many institutions do not work well enough and better cooperation between them would solve a number of problems. Parliament also has a role to play in this regard, especially in the adoption of legislation. As working material, the members and members of the Commission received a draft act - a proposal for a recommendation containing a preamble, a proposal for a recommendation No. 1 and explanation. Members and members of the Commission first adopted the proposal for Recommendation No. 1. In the discussion, the Commission included in the draft act - a proposal for a recommendation further proposals for recommendations: chapter 2 of the Administrative case, chapter 2 of the Child's Rights proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, 28. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Finally, the text of the act was put to the vote – a proposal for a full recommendation, with a preamble and an explanation which was also adopted by the members and members of the Commission. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as its parent working body and addressed today by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Dark Staret of the Ministry of Justice for the presentation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u6	Dear Guardian, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! The Ombudsman also prepared an extremely quality and detailed report on his work for 2013, according to the Government's assessment. We have highlighted on the Committee on Justice, as has already been pointed out today, that this can be an excellent basis and guidance for the work of the executive branch of power in the exercise of human rights. This is how it will be done, and I assure you that we are already actively trying, through the normative part, to implement recommendations that will ensure the realization of what the Ombudsman has found to be very problematic and, in fact, unacceptable to certain individuals in this society, who are not only unable to exercise the rights afforded them by the current legislation, but also suffer and are completely overlooked. This is from the point of view of us, officials, officials who are trusted and trusted to implement existing legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, a special duty and a warning that in everyday work we strengthen awareness and have this as a serious and responsible basis for planning work and finding solutions to solve such problems and to limit them to the maximum possible extent possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore welcomes, fully supports and accepts the report of the Ombudsman and notes, at the same time, that despite the economic and financial crisis in which our society is currently located, the Ministry and Government services are responsive and relatively successful in implementing the recommendations of the past periods. The Government's opinion presents concrete examples and responses to the cases raised by the Ombudsman, as well as proposals for the implementation or implementation of the individual recommendations of this year's 2013 report. I am presenting some concrete responses below. With regard to the commitment of citizens between the judiciary and the executive branch of authorities, which contains specific measures and obligations with a view to reducing judicial proceedings and ensuring a reasonable trial, I should like to point out that the legislative objectives are largely achieved. Practically all the proposed amendments to the laws resulting from this undertaking have been prepared and most of these proposed amendments have also been adopted in the National Assembly in the past period. We can also say that the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, adopted in July 2014, already contains amendments aimed at improving the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure and ensuring greater efficiency in determining the disciplinary responsibility of individual executives, as recommended on the basis of the reasoned findings of the Ombudsman. In 2013, police legislation was revised to allow greater operational autonomy to ensure security and the protection of freedom and human rights in police procedures. The latter represents a higher standard of human rights and freedoms especially in the part where the police, with their powers, intervene in the freedoms and rights of individuals or people. The administrative authorities are also actively seeking to speed up individual procedures and to respect the deadlines for decision-making, as noted through individual recommendations. Despite the increase in the number of cases in administrative procedures, the number of cases of decision-making and drinking water problems or the supply of drinking water carried out as an economic public service has been significantly reduced. In the context of the restructuring of the construction inspection work, considerable progress has also been made as a result of past observations by the Ombudsman and priorities have been adopted to ensure that the tasks of the construction inspection are carried out more effectively and in particular the transparency of these procedures. In June 2014, the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities was adopted, which will also provide the most difficult sensory and mobilely disabled persons with an easier way of communication and thus better integration into all forms of social life. In 2013, the new Child Guidance Act, which also introduced a special group of children with special needs, began to apply. However, the third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child is in the process of preparing a proposal for ratification. The ministries have taken concrete action to implement the reports and recommendations of the Ombudsman, while clarifying which recommendations may already be satisfactorily regulated by positive legislation after their assessment. Thank you once again to the Ombudsman for this truly quality, excellent design, content and conceptual report, which, as has already been said, is indeed an excellent basis and guidance for the work of the executive branch of power in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, for which Mr. Peter Wilfan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dear President, Guardian, Colleagues and colleagues and others present! We've got 19. Regular report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. The purpose of the Ombudsman's reporting to the National Assembly is mainly to show the current activity from which the most pressing problems or human rights violations can be identified. The Ombudsman also reports to the National Assembly on his work, findings on the degree and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the administrative security of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The Ombudsman's report for the past year is the most extensive report ever. It has been recommended by 150, and unfortunately many are repeated year after year. Among other things, the Ombudsman highlighted the area of labour market rights and urged all state institutions and local communities to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms unconditionally in their work and decision-making. At a time when the whole world is facing an economic crisis, the country's austerity measures at all stages of life, unemployment, the role of the Ombudsman is particularly important. It must protect the rights and freedoms of citizens in relation to state authorities, which at that time impose extraordinary measures. The main activity, by law, of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure that state authorities, local authorities and public authorities in the Republic of Slovenia respect human rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals and groups in their work. In doing so, the Ombudsman does not decide on these relations, but in particular has the right to draw the attention of the highest national authorities and the public to possible human rights violations. In the ZaAB Group, we are convinced that since its official launch in 1995, the Ombudsman's Institute has become strongly entrenched in the awareness of citizens and citizens, or of society as a whole, and enjoys a great reputation in the public. And even such debates as today help to find the right systemic solutions. However, in our parliamentary group, we cannot pass through the Ombudsman's appeal to Members that all of us who participate in public debates should avoid in our statements promoting hatred or intolerance on the basis of any personal circumstances. The Member shall act in a respectful, patient and non-discriminatory manner and shall not, in particular, use hate speech or abusive expressions or statements. For the public expects all of us to do our best, especially ethically, during our term of office. Thus, ethical standards represent a common denominator for all Members, regardless of the size of the Group of Members, their political or party programme or other interests. Ethics within a political culture has neither the right nor the left foresignature or cannot be owned by any side. Respect for ethical standards in political culture is or is not. In the ZaAB Group, we will support the Ombudsman's recommendations. We will also support the second amendment tabled by the SDS Group, which adds a new chapter to the administrative affairs chapter of the housing case. With the amendment, the Ministry of Environment and Space is proposed or recommended to prepare a national housing programme as soon as possible. We are aware of the hardship that families and young people face in the search for housing. By means of that programme, the State would create conditions for the implementation of the constitutionally recorded choice in the resolution of the housing issue for all inhabitants.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u9	The word is given by the Italian Hungarian National Community's Group of Members, Dr Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2013 is transparent, substantive and thematic in our view a properly prepared material. In my position, I will focus only on the sub-chapter of the National and Ethnic Minority, which is related to the protection of indigenous national communities and their members in the Republic of Slovenia. The report states that no special notice was received at the establishment of the Ombudsman in 2013 confirming a direct violation of any of the Constitution and the laws guaranteed specific rights of indigenous national communities and their members. In our parliamentary group, we reiterate that regrettably such violations have occurred, but the directly affected do not inform the Ombudsman. As I have already pointed out in last year's debate, it is partly because of this in systemic inadequacy. When organizations of national communities warned of certain violations years ago, there were dilemmas as to whether a violation of collective rights was at all in the context of the Ombudsman's action, but it must be said that in such cases it was often also a violation of individual rights. Preservation by affected members of the national communities can also be attributed to a certain extent to the still present psychological distress, based on negative stereotypes from the past, when it was not desirable to talk about repression on a national basis. In this regard, too, there may be very serious personal distress. Thus, in our view, there is some confusion in the systematic regulation of the functioning of the Ombudsman regarding possible infringements of the rights of national communities. As a problem that is not detectable, they would particularly highlight the gap between well-established constitutional and legal standards for the protection of indigenous national communities and their implementation in practice, which the Ombudsman is also unaware of because of the structure of its operation. It is a matter of formality for individuals. The report correctly states that cases of hostile speech in the form of letters and e-mails were transmitted to the institution at the expense of the Hungarian national community and its members. Such cases were generally publicly condemned by the Ombudsman, which should be welcomed. Other competent authorities did likewise. These phenomena are all the more intense because, as a rule, a difficult material-social situation in our society is being abused. On the part of the national communities, we believe that intolerance on a national, racial or religious basis can best be prevented by examples of good practice and by appropriate education and media-information programmes in terms of creating a favourable mile in terms of acceptance of differences. The Ombudsman’s recommendations may also be welcome in this regard. In general, we welcome the concern of this institution and its rapid response in specific cases in order to prevent the growth of hate speech. In addition to these forms, I should also point out that there are also hidden forms of hate speech in some media. We believe that the involvement of the Ombudsman's institution with the organisations of the national communities is of paramount importance and it would therefore be useful to agree on an even more permanent form of cooperation. We therefore want to define the role of the Ombudsman in this area in a slightly more concrete way also in the planned general law on the indigenous national community. It is therefore important to discuss this content several times at meetings of the Commission for National Communities. Finally, I would like to stress my full support for the Ombudsman's observations and recommendations concerning the resolution of the rather complex and complex problems of the Roma community and other national or other smaller ones. Recommendations [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And we will only support the Guardian's report. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the parties Mir Cerar, for her by Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u12	Dear Guardian of Human Rights, all those who follow this debate! We have before us the 19th report of the Ombudsman. It's been a long time. They've reached their age. However, if we compare with ombudsmen in other countries, especially countries with a long tradition, we see that in Sweden the first such institutions appeared in 1809. Nevertheless, I note when I compared this report with the reports of the Scandinavian countries that this report in some parts even exceeded the Scandinavian reports and added to its own dimension the recognition that young democracies have. We have achieved our goal by warning the public, while also introducing the international public to the problems we have in Slovenia. And these problems are nothing but problems in other developed countries. If I provide an analysis, I can find that the human rights issue in late modern society has highlighted the development problems and addressed the institutions that are being addressed in this case as well as in the case of the international environment. The report combines critical reasoning on human rights violations processes and goes beyond the classic forms of reports of other institutions and thus adds a new characteristic dimension that forces readers to think about human rights violations. The analytical design is the basic basis for examining the cases already under consideration as well as future cases. The report will thus help state institutions, students and the international public, as well as all others concerned with human rights. If I point out some of the cases, I can see that the report mainly touches on the infringement of the rule of law which is still very important in our society, and notes that we have too many rules and there is a reregulation and therefore that laws are not being implemented. Another problem is that laws have been taken over by certain external institutions and therefore do not achieve their objective. The report also highlights the fact that, due to the privatisation and relations in our society, there are many unemployment, the emergence of an informal economy and the emergence of regions where there are many unemployed people who are difficult to get a job, which has also highlighted the Ombudsman's opening remarks. Long procedures before the courts and other institutions were already exposed yesterday and we have pointed out this issue. On the basis of the recommendations, we believe that they will improve and that the situation will be better in the future. The control mechanisms, as we see, are ineffective and much more needs to be done in this area. The economic crisis we are facing is a result of financial crime, and that is what has been pointed out in some segments in this report. And last but not least, the report specifically exposes children as a category that needs special protection. If I may conclude, I see that the report, with a critical distance, provides an overview of human rights violations, of the content of the cases under consideration, with particular reference to the Ombudsman's collective recommendations. The usefulness is thus demonstrated in the fact that the analysis of the situation so far and the mistakes made will provide information on the basis of which measures can be planned primarily to prevent human rights violations and, in so doing, future-oriented reports. In general, it follows from the report that repressive measures do not constitute a solution to cases, but often lead to further human rights violations and therefore the purpose of the report is to prevent them. We will support this report in the parliamentary group for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u14	Hello again. Honourable Members of Parliament, Honourable Ombudsman Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. The annual report of the Ombudsman, this time for 2013, presents an important and key document showing the state of protection and respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. You are acting in a responsible role, and you are also interfering with extremely sensitive areas where individuals are all too often violated by the most fundamental human rights that interfere with their integrity and dignity. While Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. Everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. However, as you can see in the Annual Report of the Ombudsman, the issue of human integrity and dignity is a multiple test, as individuals are often exposed to unjustifiable and unacceptable attacks against the Constitution by a certain right. And this one should never be questionable. No matter the circumstances, no matter what the situation. It is worth noting that, according to the Constitution, which is the highest legal act, all should be equal before the law and that everyone should be guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. Those who have been more closely monitoring the work or the functioning of the Ombudsman for years now are certainly united in the fact that doing some analysis of the situation in the field of protection and respect for human rights is a very difficult and absolutely no simple task, since it affects all areas and all levels of social life. I personally expect the Ombudsman, but also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to point out violations of human rights, not only in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, but also to think responsibly about when a decision or intervention in a particular, particularly sensitive situation will bring about an improvement in the situation and when, despite the good intentions, it may make the matter worse. The Ombudsman must be honest in his work. And the Ombudsman must be just in his work. It must not be politically burdened or biased. Since the Ombudsman is an indisputable moral authority in the field of human rights protection, the first example for all of us is how to act in extremely sensitive situations. In its 159th Article on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia therefore established the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is an informal form of protection of the rights of individuals in relation to the authorities. As a constitutional category in the Slovenian Constitution, the Ombudsman is not part of the mechanism of authority, but rather a kind of anti-authority, since by his work he limits his will in interfering with human rights and fundamental freedoms. It acts in an informal way and draws its authority from its reputation and position in society. Why am I reminding you how important the Ombudsman's institutional role is? In particular, or because of this, if we make a short comparison, in many other countries the Ombudsman is established only by law and has a significantly weaker position compared to our Ombudsman. That is why the Ombudsman’s responsibility is even more responsible and important when he decides on certain matters related to human rights violations. Therefore, we expect you, a respected guardian, in the Slovenian Democratic Party to raise your voice or to give your own initiative, that is also clearly stated in the article of the Law on the Ombudsman, even when human rights violations may not suit you most, but it is responsible and necessary. Opportunities with the Ombudsman have no place according to his constitutional position. Let me point out that exactly a week ago I wrote to you as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities a letter in which I reminded you of the hate speech of the President of the National Assembly, which we also discussed at yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly. In our opinion, it was an unacceptable statement which can even match the definition of an enemy speech and, as such, requires a clear conviction on your part. Let me say that yesterday I received your letter or reply by e-mail. However, I must say that you have written, above all, very technocratically, quickly. You wrote that everything is already recorded in the report of the Ombudsman in section Ethical of Public Words, pages 26 and 27. Of course, I have read the report very well, and I also know what it says on these two pages regarding the ethics of the public word, because I think it is an extremely important area. And then you said that this case that I mentioned didn't satisfy the reasons for a special response. Maybe not for you. Maybe not for the coalition. However, I believe that Members of the National Assembly and also the public could nevertheless receive a more substantive and appropriate response to the letter set up by the legislative branch of power. Even though in your annual report in the Ethical section, you find that inappropriate, unacceptable and even hostile speech in public discourse is too much. Find out for yourself. And that it is necessary to do everything to say no to such rumors. In the event of an enemy speech, however, it shall be prosecuted in accordance with the law. You all know the 100th Article of the Penal Code. That one's clear. Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also clear. All of this provides the basis for appropriate sanctioning of the hate speech. Of course, however, it is necessary to know what hate speech is. I have a feeling that sometimes we don't even know, even in the National Assembly, not what hate speech is and why it's so important that we know the exact definition of hate speech. Especially since the definition of hate speech does not mean everything that seems unacceptable to someone. On the one hand, we could say that we have such an hate speech that can be sanctioned and, on the other hand, we have a culture of speech of a particular individual, which still belongs to the constitutional right to freedom of expression. Article 39 of the Constitution is clear here. However, hate speech is an expression of opinions and ideas that are inherently discriminatory, xenophobic, racist, homophobic and similar and directed against different minorities, groups and individuals. Based on the belief that some people are less valuable because of different personal circumstances. We can compare hate speech with social action, since it can harshly determine the social situation of those against whom it is directed. And this, in particular, must the Ombudsman, because he has this special power and special authority, have the same criteria for all. And I can tell you it hasn't been so far. Here, I am not referring to the current Ombudsman or just her, but especially all the previous or former Ombudsman's rights. I find that in a public space, debates that are unacceptable are often more appraised on the basis of who the person who said something is than what the actual content of the said was. We need to talk about content, not about who said something. So let's say I did a quick comparison. You will all probably remember the certainly inappropriate statement about Matilda, who is the only one who can be feared by pensioners, said the former Secretary of State, and then the media machine slipped through the Secretary of State with all the guns. And the Secretary of State resigned from his post because he said what I said. It wasn't appropriate, I agree, it wasn't appropriate. But he pulled the sequences that showed up in his resignation because of that statement, not because he was doing his job badly, but because of that statement. However, nothing happens when the second highest representative of the authorities legitimizes postwar killings by his statement. It is, however, a statement which, in my view, is incompatible with the statement which required a withdrawal at the end. And it is a statement that even more interferes with the integrity of the nation than the statement of the former President of the country on post-war killings than on a second-rate topic. We also expect the Ombudsman in the Slovenian Democratic Party to participate in the Commission's petitions and human rights and equal opportunities with his view of a particular topic. But here I must be honest and say that after repeated warning that it would be good for the Ombudsman to be involved in the debates on the Commission or that he is present, at least so much has been moved that today, at least the deputy guardians come to the meetings of the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities dealing with human rights violations. I welcome this, and I am very pleased to have them attend these meetings, but I must say that, to the violations of human rights that we consider, they still behave more at these meetings than some kind of silent observers, rather than as critical debaters. This is what I would expect of people in their positions to protect human rights. We do not have to agree with everything, but there is a need for debate, controversy, dialogue, which is essentially insufficient. But this is certainly a better, respected guardian, than the functioning of coalition Members, who are not at the Commission's petitions meetings and for human rights and equal opportunities at all. At the same time, these coalition Members in their apologies, so as not to obstruct the meetings, as is the case in the Rules of Procedure, refer to reasons which do not support any justification, not in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor in the powers of the Commission. There's no justification. Not to mention the obvious ignorance of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I saying this? At the last session of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we considered a petition entitled Freedom and Truth over Lie and Force addressed to the Commission for Petitions by a group of people, with the first-signed David Tasic. And what was the rationale for the coalition MPs, why aren't they going to the meeting? They said that this does not fall within the Commission's competence for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, although the Commission's primary task for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities is to listen to citizens and citizens to deal with petitions. Even on behalf of our commission, we have the word of a petition, it deals with a petition. And let me remind my dear colleagues here that, under my leadership, this commission has been dealt with in the past by a number of petitions. The one with the title "Cancel the Army", which was advocated and justified by the responsible editor of Youth Gregor Repovš. We have the same criteria for all of us, and this is what we would expect of you, and that you would argue that you would then represent your views on such petitions, not simply saying that this does not belong to the Commission, although this is the sole responsibility and competence of the Commission for petitions. Article 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that every citizen has the right to petition and other initiatives of general interest. That's what article 45 of the Constitution says. However, the point of this right is that citizens and citizens can make petitions or initiatives without fear of possible repressive measures by the public authorities, and in particular that state authorities can draw attention to the problems that have arisen in society. And you, your respectable colleagues, are denying them this right, which is also closely linked to the right to freedom of expression. Little fear is there that we may be in this National Assembly, even some kind of attempt to reintroduce the so-called notorious 133rd Article of the Criminal Code of the former common country, a so-called verbal delict that predicted for those who had hoped to say something critical against the former authorities, even a sentence of imprisonment up to 10 years. Why am I saying this? At the same time as this petition was being addressed, a great human rights fighter also spoke at the Commission's meeting. Not just him, there were more. Sakharov Prize winner, Constabulary of Amnesty International News. Undoubtedly a man of broad spirit, a great intellectual, and above all a person who was in prison solely because of the criticism of the then regime, even because of the infamous Article 133, he survived for 29 years. That was Mr. Adem Demac. I mentioned it yesterday. Several other guests were present at this meeting. One of them was in prison for eight years because he said three critical thoughts about the regime at the time. However, it did not seem worth listening to what the international public has to say about the importance of human rights, about tolerance, about new ethical and political standards, and it has also been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Here's something you say, and on the other hand, what you do. But it's the actions that count here and not the words. Let me explain that we also invited Slovenian Amnesty International to the meeting. Why did I invite them? We invite them to these board meetings several times, but that seems important to me. It seemed right to support as many as two people invited to the meeting, the guest, the already mentioned Mr Demacja and Mr Kovacevic, who were right on the side of the organisation, of course international, Amnesty International, marked as a prisoner of conscience, but unfortunately there was no one at the meeting of the Commission. We didn't get excuses either. Then they informed us later — and also because I wanted to know why they did not attend — that because they were all absent. Unfortunately, however, I cannot help feeling that they did not attend the meeting because they did not like the content of the petition, which also speaks of John Janša. I read that in the last days I read that Slovenian Amnesty International took the side of journalist Anushka Delič. There's nothing wrong with that. It's even commendable that they did it. They also compared it with the fact that if she received three years in prison, she would already be able to obtain the name of the prisoner of conscience, i.e. this particular designation that the aforementioned gentlemen had received. But in doing so, the Amnesty International was forgotten, for example, by journalist Igor Kršinar and photographer Primož Lavret, who also performed only their duty, the official duty, and are now persecuted by former heads of the State Security Service, which was a criminal organisation, Silva Gorenc and Janez Zemlerič. Whether it is an equal treatment, you can answer it yourself. However, it is precisely why I say this, because this is a very sensitive area when we are talking about human rights violations and it is especially necessary to have the same criteria for everyone here. We expect non-governmental organizations to act in accordance with justice and respect for human rights, and by no means be politically or otherwise biased. In short, my fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to continue with the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, however, to walk and express their views. Now allow me to refer to some of the other issues that we find in the Ombudsman's 2013 report, which are of particular importance in view of the situation in which this country is in particular the financial, difficult social and economic situation. I have already pointed to several key chapters on the Committee, which the Ombudsman very well analyses and also makes clear what the situation is in this area. First of all, it's about working relationships. The number of initiatives considered in 2013 that reached the Ombudsman increased by 88.6% compared to 2012, i.e. 176 initiatives in 2012 and 332 in 2013. This certainly tells us at least one thing that has to do with the difficult economic situation. This is about the forgiveness of workers, about the reduction of the most basic human rights, like, for example, payment indiscipline, about the non-payment of wages, and even though these people have earned it with all the effort they have made, and they should also get it. There is a lot of talk within the Ombudsman's report in the labour legislation on torture and bullying in the workplace. We have also dealt with mobile problems on a number of occasions on the Human Rights Commission, we have also had several meetings in the previous term, as well as in the previous one, and it seems to me that people are increasingly aware that if mobile work is happening, it should also be reported. Today, the sanctions for some mobile phone that was caused are also clear. The report also mentions that they have had many initiatives or comments from citizens and citizens to force them to operate in their own organisational form – as independent entrepreneurs. It mentions the issue of inspection procedures. We have also been finding on the Commission all the time that this is a major problem, that inspection services are not functioning effectively enough, obviously we must keep doing this again and again. It can also be seen that the Ombudsman's recommendations from the previous year regarding working relations were largely not adopted with the exception of the adoption of a new law on scholarships, which introduces innovations in the award of Zois' scholarships to young parents. I have already said that, as the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as well as as Members of the National Assembly, you are undoubtedly facing various cases where citizens and citizens are addressing you. For example, we had an example of employees or former employees who, following the bankruptcy of the companies they worked in, did not receive the funds they were entitled to because there was no money in the bankruptcy. Then investors, for example, expose problems of worker protection in such procedures and so on. If we look at the pension and disability insurance. The number of cases dealt with in this area increased by 40 % in one year, from 350 in 2012 to 490 in 2013. I can say that we Members have also faced cases in 2013 involving, in particular, the famous ZUJF, namely, the Public Finance Balance Act. Many of the issues we are facing are also related to pension reform and the changed conditions of retirement. In particular, the instigators express disappointment at the extension of the conditions for retirement and the short transitional period. With regard to the area of social security, given the state's current situation, when we are still deep in the crisis and when this social security is even more important, let me explain that the number of cases dealt with by the Ombudsman has increased from 253 in 2012 to 285 in 2013. That's 12.6%. The Ombudsman here attributed this mainly to the deterioration of the living conditions of the inhabitants due, as has already been said, to the general crisis in the country. There are also more and more instigators who want financial assistance from the Ombudsman, as social benefits do not allow them to live a life worth living. I can also say on the Human Rights Commission that we have had quite a few cases where individuals are turning to us with a desire for social benefits. The pressures are undoubtedly severe, and in such cases we usually establish contact with the competent centres for social work and then see how things can be resolved or what forms of assistance are possible. The Ombudsman told the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities as in the opening presentation today that poverty is a major problem in Slovenia. We all agree with that. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the poverty risk rate was 14.5% in 2013. This represents about one percentage point more than last year. This means that in Slovenia there were 14.5% or about 291,000 people living below the poverty risk threshold. In 2012, just for comparison, there were 271 000 such persons. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the fact that I am upgrading these issues with poverty, that the child's benefit must become our primary guide. We can't agree more. For it has been proved that children are the fastest and healthiest to develop in a loving and materially provided environment. But the last Unicef reports aren't encouraging, they're pretty alarming. This report shows that 7 000 Slovenian children have slipped below the poverty threshold in the last four years, meaning 318 additional classes of primary school children. The report lists 41 OECD countries and the European Union in view of the changes in child poverty from 2008 to 2012, including 2012. In more than half of the countries, child poverty has increased. Slovenia is 26th. The recession has also severely affected young people between the ages of 15 and 24 who are not educated, are not employed and are not involved in vocational training. In many countries their share has increased significantly, Slovenia ranks 30th. In Slovenia, youth unemployment has also increased by 11 percentage points since 2008, to 21.6% of the population, which is viewed by UNICEF as very worrying. Here I point out that in a social agreement – this will have to be done by negotiating partners, the Government and so on – for the period 2014-2018 actually takes care of an environment that is friendly to entrepreneurship, since only a successful and healthy economy has provided the best for the social state and material well-being and then also the perspective of children and young people. In 2013, the Ombudsman addressed 46 initiatives and 58.6% more than in 2012. Of these, 15,8 % of the cases in question were substantiated. At the end of 2013, for information only, 124 thousand 15 people were unemployed in Slovenia, who were registered as unemployed at the Employment Service. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this country we certainly have quite a few things to resolve so that citizens and citizens have a decent life in order to survive. This belongs to them under the Constitution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Ombudsman's report. We will support all the recommendations the Ombudsman has made, and we will also support our amendments, which have been made to the proposal. Other substantive matters, however much longer, will also be pointed out by other colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected Ombudsman Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, Deputy, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The 2013 annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is thorough, comprehensive, very transparent and therefore, in particular, the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, and her colleagues, no doubt, deserve commendation. However, I am convinced that it can represent the greatest praise and gratitude only for the elimination of the injustices to which the report applies to the greatest extent. Once again, the protection of human rights has proved to be a challenging task, especially in times of economic crisis, which many countries do not fall short of because of poor financial capacity. And there is nothing different about Slovenia. In the face of the crisis, we can be concerned about the growing poverty and with it an additional debased human dignity. The severe social distress of a large number of citizens and citizens has become a part of everyday life. Again and again, the most vulnerable groups of the population, the elderly, the generation of young people, the unemployed and the children who share their parents' destiny and poverty do not spare them. It is worrying that we are talking more and more about the issue of the roof above our heads, as social living units are lacking. Many, however, are no longer able to pay bills and rents, nor for social housing. Dear Guardian! The report notes that poverty is reflected in a number of areas and covers an increasing number of people of different ages, even regular employees and pensioners who cannot survive without the assistance of humanitarian organisations. We can't be satisfied with reality. I know that the Ombudsman pays a lot of attention to this area, but it is the country which must provide at least minimum standards. The country will also have to take more effective measures to support young people who hope that education will help them to live a decent life at home. But the young are leaving. We need these young people today, and we will need them for the future and for the better tomorrow. Every year, more and more young people move away, while others live more or less on the shoulders of parents or social services. We also do not do enough to help older ones who want to maintain a life worth living. On the contrary. People with pensions can't even cover minimum living needs. At the same time, our society is rapidly getting older, so greater emphasis is needed on active ageing and effective intergenerational integration. In the Desus Group we also share with you an opinion on the urgency of health reform, which unfortunately we have not been able to implement. Health care must remain quality and accessible to all, not just the wealthy. The accumulated health problems, the long waiting period, the spatial and human hardships of health workers and the vastly used medical equipment are reflected in the increasing pressures of patients and employees in this sector. Let me also mention the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2010, and still has no key sub-laws, and that the Council for Persons with Disabilities, as an expert consultative body of the Government, does not work to the right extent. The law on personal assistance and the law on long-term care have also been laid down in the delegations of the competent ministries. Their acceptance would have saved many hardships. In the Desus Group, we thought of your record that man is often alone before the mighty and repeatedly closed gates of the country. I'm afraid we have to agree with you. And we agree with your opinion that the country is not always in the service of the people and that it does not always protect the common good sufficiently and does not satisfy the needs of all the people – it should. Despite the abundance of legislation, people are still too often without effective legal assistance and legal certainty. It is concerned that for many years the Ombudsman has found violations of the right to personal dignity and security, the right to freedom of work and the right to social security. Article 66 of the Constitution states: "The State creates employment and employment opportunities and guarantees their legal protection." Unfortunately, the Ombudsman's report speaks of a significant increase in violations of this Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we must all think together and implement structural reforms as soon as possible, because without them there will be no financial consolidation and no new jobs. Just putting the fire out isn't gonna be enough. New starting points are needed. The crisis in which we are in is requiring our tax, but the crisis situation cannot be an excuse for the rapid adoption of inconsistent proposals and thus the creation of new injustices. We agree with the warning that we have to deal with the adoption of legislation with all the concentration and responsibility, that we do not create new injustices with the hasty adoption of irregular laws and that we do not violate them in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Such cases should no longer occur in the future. Finally, let me say that I would like this report to be shorter and less recommended, as this would mean that we have followed the recommendations of previous years. Not all too often. Or at least not sufficiently. That is why the violations remain — a reminder to all of us. The Desus Group will support the report. It will support a report which advises institutions and officials at all levels to follow the recommendations set out in this comprehensive document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear President, the well-respected guardian, Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, distinguished, respected others present! The image of the National Assembly gets red every now and then. Red, which is due to the knowledge that not everything is in the best order in this country, as is usually the case, is not a political consensus on what is wrong. Proponents of the immediate stabilisation of public finances see problems in the absence of budgetary figures, their faces blushing with regard to the public financial deficit, the reports of the European Commission, the assessments of credit rating agencies. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share responsibility and concern for the state's public finances, but we are primarily interested in the fate of people. We are therefore blushing at the reports showing the situation of Slovenian society. The report of the Ombudsman is not a dry balance sheet for us last year. Every story that bears witness to the individual’s fight against the wrong he has done strengthens us in the view that concern for the welfare of people must remain a first-class political priority. In particular, we will be warned by the Ombudsman that the tooth crisis is grinding on the most vulnerable and socially excluded people. We attach to the findings and accept it in particular in the light of the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing. Therefore, from this place to the Minister of Finance and Government, we fully welcome the expectation that he will show due concern for the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of this country in the drafting of the budget documents. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, we have achieved that, in addition to the definition that Slovenia is a rule of law, Slovenia is a social state. This is thus not just one party's programme, but this has become, by reference to the basic act of the State, a fundamental orientation of the whole country, which is also in place during such or other crises. We are also reminded of this by the 2013 report of the Ombudsman. In this Chamber, we often hear the word "children's future" – unfortunately part of the policy uses it for the issue of public debt and government debt. We are discussing the present of children too few times. We marked the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires Slovenia to guarantee all rights to children without distinction, regardless of their position or the position of their parents or guardians. The day after a beautiful sounding of words and a parade of friendly smiles, when morning flushes away the spine of protocol events, facts come to light. From the beginning of the crisis in 2008 to the summit in 2012, the number of poor children increased by 7 000 after the last UNICEF report. And there's nothing to suggest that jamming a number would be our common commitment. In addition to attempts to intervene in social transfers, we face proposals for lowering standards in schools and schools, which are often the only incentive in the lives of children. We also face proposals to reduce accessibility to their leisure activities. Music education and youth sport are a popular target for advocates of the so-called consolidation of public finances. Their peers with special needs are also in a deteriorating situation. What public financial care is best illustrated by the case of one of the hospitals where children are permanently hospitalized and live there. Because of our commitments to international institutions, we have apparently forgotten about the common humanity. A series of years are also drawn by an example covered by the Ombudsman in a report where the municipality and the state argue in the share of the construction of the school with the adjusted programme. If we add to this examples of public kindergartens, when the children of parents agreed that their children could play with peers with special needs, then nothing more needs to be added to the low state of the spirit. We have already warned of negligence regarding the provision of institutional protection for their rights. On the basis of this, however, we expect to see the reality of their daily life in the next debates on public financial dynamics, when we demagogically bring our children's future into this context. We are protesting in the Group of Social Democrats that last year there has been no major progress in strengthening the regulation of promoting equality and protection against discrimination, which would be internationally comparable. The reoccupation of a country with political and macroeconomic issues has prevented the creation of a state institution for the protection and promotion of human rights, which would operate on the basis of Parisian principles and promote and promote human rights behaviour. The Ombudsman reiterates that the status of advocate of the principle of equality has not yet been regulated. Despite our efforts, the Government has not prepared a proposal to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. The call to regulate the status of the child's rights, which is part of the Ombudsman's annual reports, has been rehearsed. Initiatives to accede to the ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The crisis is also an appropriate argument for inaction in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms of marginalized social groups. Among them, Social Democrats are particularly reminded of the independence of certain local communities and competent ministries in providing adequate basic living conditions for members of the Roma community. We believe that more support should be given to activities to involve Roma children in educational work. In this regard, we are pleased that the Institute of Roma Assistants has proved to be an outstanding example of good practice which needs to be upgraded. Social Democrats advocate zero tolerance for all forms of intolerance. We are concerned that this has been strengthened in relation to the deleted in the last period. It is encouraged by a part of the political community that seeks to present compensation to the deleted as one of the probable reasons for the possible destabilisation of public finances. As a rule, from the predominant debates on the financial situation, countries tend to be subject to criticism at the expense of the public sector. That he's too large to be too expensive to share the fate of the economy. Somehow in the sense of that famous Slovenian about the cow and the neighbor. However, the Ombudsman's report and the Government's response can be seen as a significant proportion of the number of employees in the public sector. I'm talking about human resources malnutrition in health care, in the services of appellate bodies, in the inspection services. The warning should therefore fall to a part of the public sector’s daily demonisation policy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand that we have a public sector in order to make public services accessible to people under the same conditions in order to ensure security and prosperity. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have a respectful relationship with the Ombudsman's report. The Law on the Ombudsman provides in Article 4 that the Ombudsman shall be independent and independent in his work. We believe that this is also the annual report of the Social Democrats. Therefore, we find the interventions in the text, as proposed by the largest opposition party in the form of amendments, unworthy. The proposals represent only a substantive duplication of some of the Ombudsman’s recommendations. It is also obvious that the only motive is careful choice, likeness, the work of an elective body, which in other words is cheap populism. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are not a set of a la carte, from which we take everything, which we like at the moment, but means a firm commitment of the state, how it will strive with due diligence to realize everything. Your Honor! When our faces are unitedly flushed with the warnings of the people living in this country, and not only by the census we receive from the international institutions, we will take the right path of recovery. This path is not only the path of economic recovery, but it is primarily the path of the recovery of society. The public financial sustainability officials are forecasting the difficult months ahead. We hope that, as a result, we have learned something in the Ombudsman's report, a reckless and sudden austerity hind, which is reflected in the problems that are also raised in the Ombudsman's report. It would therefore be good for the report to be an integral part of the material when considering future budgetary documents. In the Hall of the National Assembly of Hours and Hours, we usually discuss completely infertilely the public debt and indebtedness of the country. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the only debt that we really have to worry about is debt to the people living in this country. This increases dangerously, and it is time for us to take priority, determination, and unity in the way of its downsizing. Let us also be accompanied by the present report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u19	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u20	Dear Government Nussdorfer, Ombudsman, Deputy, Honourable Ambassador and Members, Dear Comrades and Comrades, Representatives of the Government and President of the National Assembly! For six years, I have sat where you, the Ombudsman, are sitting, listening to what the Members have dedicated to this institution. There was a lot of good, but there was a lot of misunderstanding about the work of the guardian, especially the work of the authorities. This was mainly because the Members often blamed their reflection in the mirror held by the guardian for all the mistakes of this society. Now it is a special honor for me to be able to play a second role on behalf of the United Left. I extend the guardian's warnings to those who are destined for them. First of all, I would like to point out that I would not like to extend the Ombudsman's warning just once a year when the Ombudsman's reports are being discussed, and then, just as they are happening, I would like to wait until the next year, when we will repeat the same and the same, next year, the same 20 warnings that the National Assembly has confirmed and forgotten about them. Last year, human rights in Slovenia, if I express myself a little bit more freely, celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Law on the Ombudsman, and this year the institution celebrates the same anniversary. So two decades of institutional monitoring and protection of human rights. Congratulations! However, as I must be corrected, I must mention the Ombudsman's predecessor, the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the more popular name of the Baccon Committee, which has been in operation for several years since 1988, that is, in the previous system, as some would like to stress, and to a large extent, without law, has paved the way well for the formal institution which has replaced it. The annual reports of the Ombudsman are a kind of mirror of society and, above all, of politics. There is a reflection of how we feel about people with problems, how everyone, especially those who have the power to change and improve our lives, respond to the Ombudsman’s cry when people are under pressure. They're the mirror of our news. And here, unfortunately, many fail to pass their test of conscience. Even if I look away at the Ombudsman's report for the past year or any year ago, I can repeat in this place what I myself as a guardian almost every year failed to do. Carelessness to the needs and pressure of others is the basic problem of our society. So to heaven, the highlighted own problems, both real and imagined, and to infinity the minimised problems of others are often the facts that tear the social fabric of our society at all levels, personal and group. We have listened to something similar in this house today. The introductory words of the authorities of Nussdorfer in last year's report say enough, quote: "Many grass plants want to draw attention to the injustices that are happening to them, but also to the power of bulldozers whose herbs cannot resist because of their smallness, fragility and infirmity." The annual repetition of the same problems in the Ombudsman's reports is the most important proof of how grass plants are, not the ones that American poet Walt Whitman sang in his collection with the same title, constantly struggling with bulldozer drivers who would like to build some tasteless mastodon on the lawns and wash the money that they have collected from this plant, carefree and without conscience, because they are the most productive parts of our society, which I hear here more than once, which we have yet to help him. Unproductive or at least not productive, I'm still waiting for the word superfluous and to leave my fate to it. And what's the guardian been saying for the past 10 years? All except the number of people in distress who turn to him. This is where we find progress — unfortunately in the wrong direction. I do not want to repeat, many times today, a number of warnings from the Ombudsman have been quoted, but I believe that we have all read this report, and I would like to emphasise just a few things. The Ombudsman says that man is often alone in front of powerful doors closed to the country's gates, which are also due to reckless hand-to-handling in the adoption of legislation. I'm only stopping at what's going on here. Fast-adopted laws and often laws in which founders pursue only economic and financial interests and objectives, but they do not care about human rights, the Ombudsman warns us. He wonders whether it is still possible to trust state institutions that have too little control mechanisms and also warns the National Assembly, which is also supposed to monitor implementation in addition to legislation, and for a reason warns us to adopt, as we will do today, recommendations and we will wait until next year, but in the meantime we will talk again about how to sell social property and help the most productive works of our society. It also reminds us of an impatient hate speech that also occurs in the National Assembly and asks us about the correction of injustices. Here, by the way, he mentions two large groups that were created on the same logic of avengers over losers, wiped out and extrajudicial killings after the war. Your Honor! I won't go any further. I would mention just one more thing when we speak and praise the Ombudsman's report, he reminds us of the poor institutional protection against discrimination and the lack of advocates of the principle of equality. Yesterday in this assembly, we rejected the proposal of the United Left to discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Not only have we refused, but among all 30 proposals this proposal has received the least votes. Dear Members, sometimes it would be good to think about our actions. Thank you very much. In the United Left we will, of course, support the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u21	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u22	Honourable President of the National Assembly, respected guardian with co-workers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the 19th periodic annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that the Members of the New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats – have accepted the guardian who introduced us to the report and we have discussed the most pressing problems that are taking place from year to year. The Ombudsman's report is a reflection of the inactive rule of law and a good credit to every government for the necessary reforms. The Ombudsman remains so for the citizens, the last exit in force, the last hope that something will move. The report provides an overview of the areas in which the rule of law is most annulled and when there is an increasing sense among the population that we are not all the same before the law and that nothing simply happens to some because of political and capital ties, while others seek justice for nothing. The report thus shows appropriate graphic warnings as well as improvements in relation to past reports. From the extensive Ombudsman's report in Nova Slovenije we will highlight some of the most worrying topics. The Ombudsman notes an almost 30% increase in the number of cases dealt with in the field of justice compared to 2012. The issue at stake is the longevity of judicial proceedings and the quality of judicial decisions. The Ombudsman draws attention to the significant backlog in the work of the Labour and Social Court, in the resolution of labour and social disputes. The Ombudsman warned the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Major delays also occurred in the Civil Division of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with cases from 2009 being resolved in 2013. The Ombudsman draws attention to inadequate procedural conduct in individual cases and to exceeding the time limits for the decision to be drawn up and to the weakness and poor quality of court decisions. The 2013 red thread is also lagging behind in the resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions in virtually all areas: labour relations, scholarships, the enforcement of public funds rights, social security and unemployment. Last year's report, for example, highlighted the ineffective resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions on rights from public funds. The number of ten thousand 133 outstanding complaints was mentioned. Last year, the National Assembly also supported the Ombudsman's report to ensure that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities with organisational, human resources and financial measures ensure that decisions are issued at the first and second stages of the decision-making process within legal time limits. The Ministry of the Recommendation has not yet implemented it, as the backlog in this area remains too large. The Ombudsman and I agree that this principle of the rule of law is gravely violated, and that is unacceptable. The Ombudsman's Office notes the greatest increase in labour relations issues, even more in the area of scholarships. The problem has remained the same for years – non-payment of salaries and contributions, torture and bullying in the workplace, forced business in its own organisational form, espionage case, long-term appeal procedures at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Christian Democrats in their work note the rise in the risk of poverty in Slovenia – unfortunately, also the information in the Ombudsman's report confirms our concern – especially among the elderly and the young. According to the Ombudsman's report, the number of social security initiatives has increased significantly compared to previous years, attributable to the deterioration of the living conditions of the population as a result of the general crisis in the country. However, government representatives point out that the indicators are improving and are very optimistic. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this opinion has nothing to do with the actual situation. Christian Democrats support the proposal with recommendations on children's rights in order to better regulate the area of recovery and protection against the abuse of children's personal and other data. Over the past year, we have witnessed quite a few cases of murders and suicides, unfortunately, and physical injury to family members, relatives or former partners. In all of these cases, of course, following media coverage, the police were informed of the previous threats posed by the perpetrators, but the police argued that until a specific injury occurred, they did not have the authority to act. The Ombudsman draws attention to the legal and professional work of police officers in several individual cases of traffic accidents, but it would be appropriate to recommend to the police on the ground cases of family violence prevention. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the Ombudsman also points out respect for the human dignity of the victims, as well as their relatives, postwar out-of-court trials and the obligation of the State to discover the known locations of mass graves in Slovenia. The state must finally provide the burial of the remains of the victims and give them a proper monument and give the family a decent reputation. We hope that the law we are preparing in New Slovenia will receive plebiscite support. In the report we lack data on discrimination according to the religious and political beliefs that exist in Slovenia. We saw for ourselves this year when we invited a person with a doctoral name employed in the public service to our party's list of candidates for the local elections. The list was rejected by the person because of the difficulties he might have in his work with such a candidate on the list of New Slovenia. I'm talking about bullying or even fear of losing my job. They would also expose intolerance and hostility toward Christians, such as insults and public incitement to hatred of Christians, vandalism, and defamation of religious symbols and objects. There was no such statement of response from the representatives of the State. In addition, we would point out several standings of the annual report. We support the Ombudsman's recommendation that the Ministry of Health prepare a health reform as soon as possible. It is a worrying finding that health surveillance systems are inappropriate and inadequate, which even the Government agrees with. In the field of drinking water supply and care regarding the privatisation of this economic public service, there is no doubt that this remains. Although the Waters Act defines water and water land as a natural water public good that can be used by everyone under the same conditions, we do not guarantee that we will also drink healthy and clean water. Although we would write the right to water as a constitutional category that would constitute a fundamental human right, due to outdated and harmful water supply health, we will drink challenging water. The country in this area is lagging behind. The construction of new water and sewerage systems is not a priority for it, as in the old financial perspective 2007-2013, 34 municipalities would issue co-financing decisions for 11 environmental projects for which these municipalities have provided everything necessary and vital to them. We have been talking about this in the National Assembly for almost a year and nothing happens. And another area we want to highlight. The housing policy situation is alarming. The national housing programme has not yet been adopted and the Government does not intend to address this area of work as a matter of priority. In the New Slovenia Group, we have been pointing out for a long time the fact that young and young families and other applicants who do not have their own resources remain without any possibility of obtaining non-profit housing. While it is true that municipalities must ensure a certain number of housing units designed to temporarily address the housing needs of socially disadvantaged persons. We wonder how they will be able to do so in the fact that the financial resources for this are falling and that many municipalities are unable to provide even the basic conditions for the life and work of their citizens. Christian Democrats therefore welcome the Ombudsman's initiative that the State must provide the municipalities with appropriate incentives. We fear that they are becoming the right to personal dignity and the right to adequate housing as a constitutional category only without the possibility of their realization. At each time the Ombudsman's report is examined, we rightly ask ourselves whether the Ombudsman's institution is reduced only to a warning and the Government does not take due account of the Ombudsman's recommendations and warnings. We wish there would be more stars and fewer trumpets in the future report that the Keeper will not be just a voice in the desert. We'll support the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the report and on the proposal for a recommendation. Mrs Janja Sluga SMC has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Lady Guardian of Human Rights, Deputy, everyone else is present! I must say that I have reviewed in detail the Ombudsman's report for 2013 and also all the recommendations. Undoubtedly, we can all agree that the situation in the field of human rights protection in Slovenia is alarming. As long as we look at the rough statistics from the report, I think they're eloquent enough. In 2013, the Ombudsman addressed a record number of initiatives, totalling 3 000 471. She received over 11,000 phone calls and also held over 250 personal meetings, and I particularly welcome you. This is about 10% more than in 2012. Cases in the field of judicial and police proceedings took precedence, followed by the area of social security and the area of children's rights. It is clear from the content of the report that, despite too many laws, guidelines, resolutions and other regulations, some individuals remain behind closed doors of the State and state institutions. The whole report, in my opinion, is worrying, but most of all it has to focus on the issues that the Ombudsman has been pointing out in her reports for many years in a row, as my predecessors have already found. These include reducing judicial backlogs, regulating housing issues, improving the work of inspection services, proposing procedures before state authorities, health problems and reform, poverty or increasing social security, the need for a five-year burial of victims of post-war beatings, the issue of, still, incomplete denationalisation, shortcomings in working relations, violations of children's rights and so on. We can understand from the report that the living conditions of the people in Slovenia continue to deteriorate significantly. Their social pressures are increasing and the need for the response of the competent institutions appears. Compared to the previous year, the number of social security initiatives has increased significantly – since 2012, when 253, 285 in 2013, attributable to the deterioration of the living conditions of the population as a result of the general crisis in the country. The Ministry of Labour has been alerted to the ineffective resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions on public funds rights and has been called upon to ensure that decisions are issued within legal deadlines at the first and second stages of the decision-making process. The Ombudsman points out in the report the following shortcomings in the area of social security: inadequate legislative solutions to obtain rights from public funds and a key problem in this area, such as targeting the purpose of the provisions more in the search for offenders than in ensuring access to the rights of those in need; inadequate identification of the income of the family serving as a basis for the possible acquisition of financial social assistance, especially for the maintenance of the child included in the income of the family; too low amount of financial assistance for decent survival; inadequate regulation of the prohibition of the alienation and the burden on the property of the beneficiaries of institutional protection. The labour market is also a major problem, primarily due to the non-payment of salaries for the work done by employees, the non-payment of social contributions and so on. These areas must remain a priority for all of us, and they depend on the well-being of the population and the country. This well-being is also directly and indirectly affected by our environment, which is supposed to be a healthy environment. In this area, the number of initiatives received increased in 2013. In particular, cases relating to air pollution are critical. In doing so, the Ombudsman specifically highlights the serious cases of contaminated areas, my Celje Valley, including my Zasavje and Koroška, where he finds serious violations of the right to a healthy living environment which is equally guaranteed to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this respect, the inhabitants of those areas cannot and must not be second-rate citizens. In the area of justice or judicial proceedings, we can see an increase in the number of cases dealt with and an increase in the level of mistrust in the judiciary can be observed among citizens. The civil procedures and relations cases under consideration have increased significantly compared to 2012 and almost 7 % of the cases have been substantiated. Relatively small proportions of reasoned cases may also point to the limited powers exercised by the Ombudsman in relation to the judicial branch of authority. As in previous years, initiatives focus on the longevity of judicial proceedings, including in the case of working courts, and on the quality of judicial decisions. While the Ombudsman points out and welcomes judicial statistics that show a significant reduction in judicial backlogs, he points out, however, the need to improve the situation in this area. The annual report of the Ombudsman presents an important document on respect for and protection of human rights. The Ombudsman notes in the report that almost 24 % of the initiatives coming to their address are justified or at least partially justified. The proportion of legitimate cases is relatively high compared to related institutions abroad. In particular, it seems large because the Ombudsman is only an additional means of protecting human rights and freedoms and the Ombudsman's office is only when they are confronted with the fact that the other institutions in the country do not listen to them as much as they would like to. The Ombudsman notes, inter alia, that the State must take more effective controls in all areas. The rules should set priorities, thus disposing of the possible partial treatment of individual violators. The notifiers shall be informed when the application is received and the time of its consideration, and coordination of work between inspections shall be necessary. For 20 years now, the Ombudsman has been drawing attention to the longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings and to the violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable period provided by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Nevertheless, it should be noted that there are also areas in which the situation is improving and some institutions that have improved their work. I particularly welcome this part of the report. I welcome these achievements to be highlighted and commended. We can all probably agree that the Ombudsman's report is qualitative, clear, transparent, systematic. Just like her work. Only the report and the recommendations contained in it can and must be a credible and important source of data and information for further action. The Ombudsman offers them for reflection and action by the Government, other institutions and also here in the National Assembly. Only if these recommendations will lead us in our work will we see future progress in the field of human rights protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you. He has a word, Mr Matjaž German. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u26	Respect for the guardians, distinguished representatives of the guardian's office, representatives of the government, dear colleagues! In the most extensive report so far, containing 150 recommendations, I would like to point out two. The Ombudsman draws attention to the demands of the perpetrators of the correction of injustices to the Primors and the respect for the human dignity of the victims of post-war extrajudicial trials and the obligation of the State to discover known locations of mass graves in Slovenia. In the first guardian, it requires as soon as possible to settle the issue of the recovery of material damage suffered by the exiles, material harmers, prisoners of war and forcibly mobilized into the German army during World War II. Let me mention that the War Violence Victims Act, when it came to it, excluded the Primors because they were not victims of aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, Primorska belonged to Italy during this period. 1. 1. The 2010 amendment to the Law on Victims of War Violence entered into force, but this amendment only included those beneficiaries who were covered after 9 September 1943. However, it did not include all other particularly minors who were caught and sent to forced labour in Slovenia's Primorce specially established labour companies. We must advocate that the status will also be recognised to those Primors who were covered after 9 September 1943, as they were removed from the territory that belonged to Italy at that time. As a second point, I would like to point out the Ombudsman's warning that the Government will provide adequate financial resources for the detection of hidden war and postwar graves. At the graves already discovered, it should provide a symbolic burial of the victims, memorial signs, access of relatives of the victims to the burial site. At a meeting of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representatives of the Government Commission and representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic, it is agreed that the Commission, irrespective of the financial situation, will prepare an elaboratory of steps to contribute to a more realistic improvement in the situation in the area of hidden graves. This road must be crossed now. Let me point out that this is not about equalization of status, it is primarily about human, pietically, the future worth the action that the Slovenians deserve. Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, your work so far has been extraordinary. But I want you and your team to have a lot of energy, power, patience, which will be focused on the functioning of the rule of law, mutual respect and social progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u28	Dear Lady Guardian with colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and respected colleagues! In fact, I will touch only one point that is actually worrying, because everything else has already been positively heard in the views of the members of the groups, and not least in your report, which is a very exemplary report. But I do have one question from this area of mys, which is justice, even in the end, and I hope that you will then answer me further. You know that Slovenia, due to its judicial backlog and due to its trial or non-trial within a reasonable time, has already spoken about it on the committee responsible, paying millions of euros in damages. Finally, due to slow judicial proceedings, due to payment non-discipline, insolvency proceedings or insolvency proceedings, executions and so on, the Slovenian economy also suffers. As a result, economic damage is caused, and also because of these slow executions, many entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt in the past. So these people are violated human rights and freedoms. Here it is also worth mentioning that in December 2012 the summit of the Slovenian economy in Brdo pri Kranju, more than 500 directors and directors gathered, entrepreneurs who said that the rule of law was one of the foundations and also the first condition for the functioning of the economy, ensuring the rule of law and the regulation of these procedures that I have listed. This also raises my question, namely, which concrete measures, perhaps legislative measures, will be proposed together with the Ministry of Justice to remedy the judicial backlogs in the courts. You also mention backlogs in the Labour and Social Court, the Supreme Court, where the backlogs are the largest. Indeed, something needs to be done here, for people, including economicists, are violated human rights and we are paying millions of damages. After all, it will be necessary to find those behind us, for this cannot continue indefinitely. I also agree with my predecessor, Mr Germans, as well as those who have already said in their position on post-war beatings. New Slovenia is preparing the law, and I think we have already presented this law to you when you joined us in the parliamentary group. This isn't about opening up an ideological theme, but it's about ethics. It is a matter of ethics that we bury the dead and a step further would be that all innocent victims who deserve to be buried, grave, mark to do so and also invite you to a public debate on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. The word has magic. Tanja Zink, get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u30	Dear President, the guardian with co-workers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It has been my great pleasure to take this report into my hands because it is so detailed, transparently prepared, and it saddens me that the contents of the report also reflect the state of the spirit and the situation in our society or country, when they are too often threatened by the foundations of the rule of law and the social state and when a person remains alone and powerless before the authorities. It is worrying that in 2013, the Ombudsman addressed such an extremely large number of initiatives, almost 3 000 500 if I round up. I will limit myself to just a few of the problem areas that concern children and their rights and could be properly regulated by the Family Code, but we do not yet have because it was such a referendum decision, but it was good in many ways. On my way so far, I have often encountered cases of children who, not by their own fault, were left alone because their parents were unable to take care of them but were unable to protect their own interests. Advocate - the child's voice has been a pilot project since 2007, and I therefore believe that the time it should have turned into a separate project is a model within the formal legal system, which the Ombudsman has been pointing out for many years and which would also be in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we must respect. Many times there is a reason for the danger of children, domestic violence. In this area, a lot of good work has been done in Slovenia, especially in the legislative field, and would not be particularly problematic about it. This does not mean that we can be no better, especially in these critical times for people who too often lead to the most cruel acts of violence. The economic status associated with social status and unemployment is an essential element of the causes of violence. According to some figures, in 2011 only the police filed 7,000 200 criminal charges for crimes involving elements of domestic violence. However, it is not just the crimes that point to the extent of the problem. Other issues that are dealt with separately by social work centres and courts in relation to children and adolescents should also be taken into account. We haven't even banned corporal punishment. On page 303 of the report, we can see that the European Court of Human Rights has therefore already brought an action against Slovenia, which is supposed to violate the provisions of the European Social Charter, and the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out that corporal punishment also violates children's rights. To conclude, I would like to point out something else, which I very much agree with, this is the recommendation of the Ombudsman that the Family Code of the Centre for Social Work should only be empowered to take urgent measures to protect children, while all further procedures would be carried out by family courts. In this way, social work centres could maintain their basic mission, the mission of offering assistance, and thus avoid extreme family interventions, such as the taking of a child. Furthermore, in the view of the Ombudsman, we would avoid the perception of the non-professional decision-making of the Ministry as an appellate body in the current regulation; and in doing so, we would add – including social work centres, which in such cases are often the target of media sensationalist stories. The greatest damage, unfortunately, is caused to children. It is up to us and the current Government to address these shortcomings and address the problem area accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u32	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, respectable Ombudsman, respectable colleague and colleague! I listened carefully and also read your report, especially in the field of children with special needs. The likeness of a society was reflected through its attitude toward the most vulnerable groups, including children with special needs and their parents. Social Democrats are particularly attentive to the problem in this area. The Ombudsman’s annual report narrowly captures the dimension of their problem in all age groups. The 2013 report re-examines unresolved cases of child rights with special needs, such as insufficient treatment of children with autistic disabilities, insufficient support for the provision of escorts to children with disabilities and other groups of children with special needs. Insufficient inclusive inclusion of children with special needs in the educational process throughout the vertical. And if we compare the report with the past, we see some news in some parts of the text, namely, the star, because the guardian commends something, such as dealing with persons who are deprived of their liberty. There is no star in the places where the situation regarding children with special needs is shown. I suggest that a new sign – a pack, a black pack – be included in the preparation of the Ombudsman's next report. This is to symbolize the disgraceful irresponsibility of the state authorities. I am confident that there will be a great deal in the area of ensuring the rights of children with the special needs of such packages. The situation is also deteriorating in 2014. In particular, I would like to draw attention to some open questions and dilemmas. Firstly, to build a primary school with an adjusted education programme in Ptuj, where municipalities argue about investment shares and the state stops funding. The Ombudsman has already ruled that violations of children's rights to the optimum conditions for education are at stake. Secondly, to collect parental consent in some kindergartens if their children can play with children with special needs. Thirdly, the 13-year-old Calvary prepares for the construction of a centre for people with mental disabilities in the Fat Rtice, where investment funds have already been budgeted in the past period. It is 3.2 million euros, non-building means that parents of children from the coast who cannot take care of them themselves have to settle in remote centres across Slovenia. But the biggest black pack is due by the state authorities to deal with the hospital in Stara Gora! This was our first institution and the first centre for comprehensive rehabilitation of disabled children. The old mountain is a set of four pavilions. Some years ago, with the help of the congregation and the Ministry of Health, they succeeded in replacing one with a new building. Three of these — children with special and combined special needs, i.e. mental impairment, severe neurological and physical impairments — are in desperate condition over the next two years. They are more and more resembling the undignified settlement of the Barak. The country must transform neglected and long-lasting spaces into a friendly environment for children who are robbed of opportunities for normal living in the home environment, in the family and among their peers. Nor can the daily efforts of employees in the institution exceed the unresponsibility of the competent authorities in restoring premises. I cite a case of powerlessness and a state that may seem bizarre to anyone, but it is present at every warm-up early in the spring, these are ants. They come up on the plan and wept the kids. That hurts. However, because of their health, they cannot be defended and removed. The rooms are full, too. In one room there are six children, where they have no possibility of privacy of family life when visiting relatives. The reconstruction of the old premises would require approximately EUR 3 million. We have increased our budget debt by 200 million this year. I'm asking a question or a challenge. Would an additional investment of €3 million be too much to improve the situation and life of children with the most special needs? Is it not a shame that in the 21st century children live in inappropriate conditions?Oh, my God! Your Honor! A part of children with special needs will never be elected, but they will always be people. It is right to treat them as such because they are not now on the basis of the cases presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs Erika Deklava has the floor to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u34	Dear Chairman, all present! On the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we discussed the 19th periodic report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2013. At that time, we highlighted the record number of initiatives under consideration – 3 000 471. Not to mention the number of phone calls and personal meetings with the initiators. The fact is that such information must express concern about the state of protection of human rights in Slovenia, although it allows for more and more people to turn to you because you are recognized because people trust you and hope that they will receive help as easily or as quickly as possible or at least be heard. A greater problem than the large number of initiatives that you deal with annually is the fact that some of your recommendations are repeated year after year, which means that we do not take the recommendations seriously enough or are not aware of our role and responsibility. I will highlight the area of housing because it is in this area that the Ombudsman has received 121% more cases. However, there are many reasons for this, on the one hand because of inadequate legislation in the residential area, on the other hand because of the inhabitants, their poor property situation and their unenviable social situation. The problems facing the Ombudsman were mainly related to the absence of calls for non-profit housing for rent, award criteria, threatening assignments and the like. Most municipalities do not have their own housing programme, but in two municipalities, for example, the last current call for non-profit housing was made 20 years ago. At the time of the creation of the report, the national housing programme was not among the government's priorities, but it is now a coalition agreement and one of the priorities of this government or coalition; I therefore hope that the issue in this area will begin to be resolved and that, in the next report, we will not be faced with the fact that, despite the laws, guidelines, resolutions and other regulations, many individuals remain behind closed doors of the country and its institutions. Otherwise, I would like to commend the Ombudsman's report, because it is very transparent. Your presence in the field should be commended and the fact that, despite the large number of applications, you have successfully completed 87% of all applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, ma'am. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleague and colleague! Today we are talking about our reality, the real life of our citizens and citizens in the 2013 report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. Initially, I must commend the report – innovatively designed, qualityly, with rich content. And I hope that because technology is moving forward when we have this report, this book, also in the form of an electronic book, these trumpets will work more effectively, these trumpets. And after this emotional performance, I must say that the trumpet of self-responsibility has come to me. Of course, it is not a responsibility to violate human rights only in the National Assembly and the Government and other institutions. Everyone, every human being, every single human being, every citizen of this country must respect human rights. On 4 November 2014, the Slovenian delegation defended the human rights situation in Slovenia during the second round of the Universal Periodic Review at the 20th meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. That is exactly what we concluded yesterday on the initiative of colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Foreign Policy Committee. There are many rights that we say are universal. The right to work is also a human right and if we were able to realize this human right a little bit more so that, at least in some regions, 20% of the registered unemployment rate, some other human rights would automatically be respected. Madam Ombudsman and, of course, many of your colleagues and colleagues have debated and pointed out the worthy burial of victims of war, other world wars and also post-war killings. The man became a man when he began to bury his Paradise, his dead, so wrote a famous Slovenian blogger, a priest by profession, Mr Branko Cestnik. Very meaningful! They say civilization was born using tools and fire. We can complement this understanding with an additional question. If the tools and fire mean a technical breakthrough, after which the people of the ancient forest herd grew up to be an orderly people, what, then, is a spiritual breakthrough? Of course, more answers are offered. Many anthropologists point out that man became human when he started burying his dead and marking the burial site. When we began to perceive the bodies of other people as sacred, we firmly crossed a line that separates both animal and human. When we marked and went back to the burial site of our Paradise, there was something that we could call first religious conduct, a feeling of overcoming, a sense of immortality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not unusual, therefore, that tyrannical and criminal societies that renounce human beings and return to the animal realm also show this by neglecting the bodies and wiping out the graves. The most horrendous and famous in this respect is the Nazi crime against the Jews. Like the Nazis, Communists were led to the bodies of their opponents. Throwing into caves and mine pits, a ban on memory – thus not only shows its inhumanity, its non-civilisationism, but also deliberately and deeply affects the survivors. The grave, which is not between us, should be in human relations for a century and a more active source of tension, disaster and hatred. The grave is a hoof. The grave means that we believe in man and insist on man. So once he built a civilization to preserve and build even in our time. I conclude again with a concrete case of reality or with two cases. Yesterday, one of the Slovenian TVs showed that Slovenian economic society – a multinational – does not actually have room for a blind bride. We have about 4 000 blind and visually impaired people in Slovenia. Employees – finesse, 240 by statistics. We are talking about the progress of information and communication technologies, although we have heard from the EU Affairs Committee this morning by the Director-General of the Information Society Directorate that, in principle, all the authorities agree to implement the Digital Agenda for Europe in our country, but there are no successes. And we could blindly hire this young woman if this very rich multinational with a very wealthy owner bought her a tool that would enable her to work. One more case, and I ask the guardian, is this a violation of human rights or is it not? Two of the fiancés came by the office. Since I am also an authorized person to carry out the marriage ceremony, they told me that they wanted to marry on 2 May next year and that they would not be able to marry on 2 May 2015. I said it couldn't be done. They said it could be because it's Saturday and Saturdays are usually weddings and May 2nd is a holiday. I said I'd take care of it. I have asked the Member's question to the competent minister and have received the answer that this is not possible. And they said, "Don't bother, don't bother, we'll go to Austria and we'll get married there." Is this, Madam Ombudsman, a violation of the human rights of the two fiancés who want to marry on 2 May? It's still a month of love, isn't it? And they'll just go to Austria. Thank God we are a member of the European Union and this is possible. How little it would be necessary to change perhaps two or three words in a rulebook, and this could be done. We also call it administrative obstacles and my violation of human rights. I wish you, your well-respected guardian, a successful work ahead. I hope everything you're experiencing on the ground doesn't affect your health. In your efforts you have in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats of your Ally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Lilliana Kozlovich. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Guardian! When I read your report, especially the introduction, I see that you are aware of all the dimensions – both respect and human rights violations in our country. I will not say that I am comforted by the idea that there is a similar situation not only with us but also across Europe; even when I was at a conference in Rome, I felt that there is a similar situation in our neighbouring countries. We are aware that human rights are a variable, that they actually have their own development and are changing according to social developments. I think that we have now experienced some breakthroughs since their inception and that we are probably at some turning point that is due to the globalisation processes. I think that when there are some changes, we need to realize at the right time when a right to regulate and when to provide protection; because if we miss these things, there can be serious consequences. When I listened to your speech this morning, I was even more aware of what I was going to say — we do have human rights, we know fundamentals, we know constitutional rights; but every right is human rights, no matter how ranked. And when you talk about someone missing food in the morning, the right that they lack is certainly the most fundamental and important right at that point. And because of all this situation, both in our country and perhaps in the world, I hope to say that perhaps the current concept of human rights protection is somewhat in crisis, which is also highlighted by philosophers and I have tried my own doctoral dissertation, but my thinking has not been adopted; so I will say it here today. In fact, the concept is rightly laid down that the entire duty of protection is implicit in the country, so as to enable the protection and exercise of these rights through its mechanisms. If we're trying to understand why this is the case. I believe that we are at the moment of a crisis of existing values and that the values we believe to be the most important are still at the top of the hierarchy, but unfortunately we do not respect them; unfortunately, society is acting differently. And if we look at the concept of why human rights were created in 1215, when they were first mentioned, it was actually to protect the individual from the authorities because the authorities were exploiting him. And that individual was hardly an individual at that time, so we are aware of man’s freedom to develop freely and to be creative. But I think something happened to this freedom. We simply understand it as unlimited, let us forget the limit set by the second right that the State is rightfully asking us not to talk about the border that is set by the public benefit. We forget about the public benefit as if it were something from someone else and it's not ours. Even more, sometimes human rights themselves are subject to subversion and excuses for violating fundamental social values. This individual, when given such great freedom, is driven by material gain, has no feelings for another, and is not interested in the country at all. Very often — and you yourself have said — he is even proud to be able to carry it around and abuse it, and he should be with small things, perhaps reporting a residence where it is not necessary to exercise a right. It may also be that it hires a loan of EUR 200 000 and realizes and knows that it will not have to be settled. And the country is no longer capable of controlling and seizing this on its own. And the question is, what do you do? In the morning, when I listened to you here, and as the gentleman said before me, I think that such performances should have a lot more; perhaps to come to the National Assembly more often or generally in public to tell us what is wrong with us and how to act. Because people need someone to tell them what's right and what's wrong. And even though you are from an institution that you are independent, I think that those who are our supreme authorities – the President of the State, the President of the Government, and the President of the National Assembly – should be more likely to appear together and tell people what is right and what is wrong. For men need example and guidance in the sense of where they should turn and where they should go. The media have a very important role to play in this regard. Of course, when we talk about them, it's an immediate attack on the media. But I think they will have to return to the path of wise and enlightening communication, thus forming a public opinion. And there are only two other situations that I would like to mention, not for you, the well-respected guardian, because I know that you are aware of this, but perhaps especially for the public, who should also be aware of it. The globalization processes I mentioned earlier cause different cultures to collide with one another; and, of course, there are also issues of respect for the rights of those whose rights are more important. What I want to stress very much, and what Mrs Novakova said yesterday, we must be aware that we are facing a wave of refugees just outside our door. These people want to come to our area, to the area of the European Union, which is a space of freedom. If we do not respond to these situations in a timely manner, we may be – and this has also been said at the conference – that this is precisely why there are various forms of Nazism and intolerance in Europe. In short, impatience that can lead to a situation where even this place that has had peace can lose this primate. And the other thing that you mentioned, perhaps again, is for us, I stress, and for the public, a solidarity and intergenerational duty as a value. So I think that the whole concept of these human rights should be increasingly built on duty. So not so much talk about rights anymore, but about duty, because it points to the fact that we are actually abusers of rights. For everyone who is in violation of a right means that someone else has not actually fulfilled his duty. And when we talk about these solidaritys and intergenerational values, they must be above the law and realize that there are also human rights that are not tangible. You have said environmental protection, but such rights are much more difficult to claim than one completely materialised. To conclude, we must be aware that the other is not only an individual, it is said not only a person but also a public common benefit. This benefit is mine and each of us sitting here in the hall, especially from those generations that come after us. I wish you a successful job, as successful as it has been so far. Thank you, Guardian!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Dusan Verbic, get ready for Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u40	Dear Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, the Guardian, representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting! I'll present the general report. The review of the report and the Ombudsman's recommendations clearly indicate that the human rights situation in Slovenia is already mentioned several times today – alarming. Last but not least, the rough statistics from the report itself show this. In 2013, the Ombudsman addressed an incredible number of initiatives, on the basis of the content of the report, it is possible to understand that, despite the abundance of laws, guidelines, resolutions and other regulations, some individuals still remain outside the closed doors of the country and its institutions. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to resolve the problems that the Ombudsman has been alerting him to with his recommendations for many years. In doing so, the National Assembly, as legislator, must also be aware of its roles and responsibilities; in particular to ensure a symbolic burial of victims of war and post-war beatings; to take a visible step forward in reducing judicial backlogs; to regulate housing issues; to improve the functioning of inspection services; and to reduce the length of administrative and not only judicial proceedings. Nevertheless, priorities need to be set for themselves in advance. The Ombudsman's report on social matters is worrisome. In addition to the already high number of initiatives, the number of cases dealt with increased by 27.1% compared to 2012. The highest proportion of these are pension and social benefits and social assistance matters. In fact, this suggests a deterioration in the living conditions of the inhabitants, their social distress and, in particular, the need to react to the State or the competent institutions. The situation is unenviable, including in the labour market, as regards the non-payment of wages for work done and the non-payment of social contributions and housing policies. As a result, it is also due to a lack of an integrated country strategy in this area. Regardless of all areas that require particular attention, it is also important to mention areas where the situation is improving or where the decisions of individual institutions are welcomed in dealing with specific infringements and broader problems. In the field of constitutional initiatives and in particular the ethics of the public word, the Ombudsman received almost half the less initiatives than in 2012. There have also been fewer initiatives in the field of hate speech. The issue of trust in state institutions is important here. The cooperative relationship between all competent institutions exists and needs to be upgraded. The role of the National Assembly in the adoption and amendment of legislation should be stressed and the duty thus to remedy many shortcomings in the field of regulatory regulation. At the same time, we must be aware that human rights always go hand in hand with responsibilities. Following this, I welcome the report and support the recommendations made by the Ombudsman for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Mrs. Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u42	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished President and representatives of the Government, the Honourable Ombudsman! Undoubtedly, the report of the Ombudsman is a very important document, a kind of reminder for the work of all three branches of government, which must serve as a guide in the performance of our duties and duties. Personally, I think it is particularly important that the part that draws attention to hate speech in the types of politicians. I quote. "It is important that not only the Ombudsman, but in particular the institutions and organisations where such statements appear, publicly condemn unacceptable practices. If hate speech occurs in politics, politics should respond. I expect Members and other politicians to adopt an ethical code and form a judgment that will respond to individual cases of hate speech." Since I have been in the National Assembly, and this is not for very long, I have unfortunately had the opportunity to hear several times from certain Members who are veterans in this National Assembly, just unfortunate cases of bad communication. It is a matter of concern that individuals of the kind of Members who should try to be a positive example are doing exactly the opposite. Whether an inadequate expression formally reaches the level of hate speech or not, it is important to give a message to the public. It is not so important, as Mr Grims explained yesterday, how many elements of the hate speech must certain communication achieve in order to be used as an hate speech on a formal basis; what is essential is what and how we communicate to the public who is watching us and who should serve as an example to them. So I propose, fellow Members, that we think in particular about how we will take this recommendation of the Ombudsman into account in the future when we perform in this Chamber or anywhere in the public domain. Furthermore, I think it is particularly important that the Ombudsman recommend that the possibility of amending legislation in terms of improving the protection of children, preventing their identity from being disclosed or violating their right to intimacy, especially when children are victims of abuse, live in sad and inappropriate socio-social conditions and so on. In order to implement this recommendation, I will be particularly committed as Chair of the Committee on Culture, because the protection of children, particularly in today's acute situations, must be particularly at the forefront. The current legal system is incomplete because it saves the protection of children or the right to privacy only partially and underlyingly. For example, the Penal Code protects only the identity of a child participating in official proceedings and the Audiovisual Media Services Act protects children from abuse, but only in the field of audiovisual broadcasting. While the Code of Journalists commands consideration in reporting on children and minors, it is not necessary to disclose their identity when it comes to victims of family tragedies, sexual abuse and serious crimes. However, of course, the Code is not a regulation and, unfortunately, such journalists are also found who are getting excited about the provisions of the Code. So update the roof law, this is the Media Act, and in this way systemically protect children from such abuses. On this occasion, I would like to express my particular satisfaction as an archivist that the recommendation of the Ombudsman, which imposes on the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture, is being implemented in order to ensure the consistent implementation of the third paragraph of Article 65 of the Archive Law. The Ombudsman found that the principle of the protection of sensitive personal data had been under-respected in the past period with regard to access to archival material — that is, those who spoke about the individual’s intimate life, his sexual life, and his family conditions — so that the archival material containing this information was given to anyone. And this, of course, depended on the instructions of the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia each time. Now it's different, now the law is systematically saving it. This seems to me to be an example of good practice, how the executive branch of the Authority has actually followed the Ombudsman's recommendation. This would, of course, be the case to continue in the future. Dear Guardian of Human Rights, I believe you will continue to warn us in our work, in meeting these recommendations and others that will come. I am counting on the fact that most of these recommendations will actually be implemented in practice. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished Lady Guardian, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's 2013 annual report is very extensive but transparent. It provides an opportunity to look into statistical data in specific areas such as constitutional rights, discrimination, restrictions on personal freedom, justice, police procedures, administrative matters, environment and space, economic public services, housing, employment relations, pension and disability insurance, health care and health insurance, social affairs, unemployment, child rights, the exercise of the tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism. Practical examples and activities in specific areas, information on the Ombudsman's work and the review of activities are presented. Finally, the report also contains 150 recommendations from the Ombudsman. Here I believe that it is the task of us Members to commit ourselves to monitoring and taking into account these 150 recommendations when adopting both new legislation and in revising existing legislation. The Ombudsman's recommendations should also be taken into account by all national authorities in his work. No law should be adopted in the National Assembly without checking whether the Ombudsman’s recommendations may not be addressed in any part or article. That has not been the case so far is seen in the Ombudsman's recommendations, where, for example, among 150 recommendations, it is recommended that the Government take all measures that will contribute to the completion of denationalisation. Since the adoption of the Denationalisation Act, more than 20 years have passed and it is totally unacceptable and unjustified that denationalisation is not yet completed. For example, the Ombudsman's Annual Report 2008 provided a meaningful similar proposal. Other recommendations that have stabbed me in reading the Ombudsman's recommendations relate to pollution problems in the Mežiščina Valley, Celje Valley and my Zasavje and all major Slovenian cities due to the excess of the PM10 dust particles and the measurement of discharges and the provision of independent monitoring and financing of measurements. Nor has this action, which the country has advocated in the European Union in 2006, been carried out, so that the European Commission is already running procedures against the country, and the penalty for each day of non-action is EUR 10,000. Here I have highlighted some of the Ombudsman's recommendations, which I think are worrying, because they have been stretching for years and too long; but they should be implemented more quickly. We have to work in the rule of law, which is why the voters actually elected us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ombudsman, distinguished representatives of the Government! I have to start by commending the report. I must say that reading this report is hard, especially from a quantitative point of view. However, as regards the content itself, it is, of course, exemplary and properly prepared on the one hand. On the other hand, it reflects a lot of positive vibrations, especially in the sense that there is a lot of attention or attention to minorities, many civil social initiatives, as well as to other vulnerable groups in the country. On the other hand, it is a poor or disturbing fact that some of the recommendations — and I will not list them here — are now mentioned, because in some ways it would be a severe criticism of all the governments so far — appear year after year, fighting is done here. I think it is necessary to act – to act now and immediately so that this will not happen again. Perhaps the crisis or a severe financial, economic and other situation, including, of course, the social, opportunity and opportunity to do something right now. It is probably not difficult to guarantee all human rights and other rights at the time of abundance, during the so-called fat cows. The value or consistency of the country in this area is, of course, seen when the situation is acute, difficult; then it can be seen whether we are ready to do something for a small person or not. And let's show here that we know and that we can. Many health problems have been mentioned. The fact is, public health needs to be accessible to everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet. I would add here that this is also necessary in the area of education, the whole of education, not only in compulsory primary school, but also further. It is necessary to provide for the possibility of engaging in culture and sport for all, regardless of the size of the wallet. Last but not least, it is necessary to offer in every way and unconditionally or to provide a decent life and human dignity for all, regardless of any difference between us. On this occasion, I might introduce you in two, three sentences, or as an addition to this report, that we received this week's visit from an independent UN Human Rights Council expert, Mrs. Rose CornfeldMatte. In a way, ladies could say that she is the guardian of the rights of the elderly, even though that is my interpretation. As you know, the highest representatives of this country met with her. I think we can be very pleased that this independent expert and wrestler for the rights of the elderly, by their appointment, has chosen Slovenia as their first foreign destination. I think it's in a way commending our country that it's doing a lot of work in this area. Of course, never so well, never so efficiently that this efficiency and successful engagement in the field of protection of the rights of older persons could be improved. On this occasion, it has also been mentioned and highlighted that we will strive for these matters, also further, to expect the long-awaited adoption of the Long-Term Care Act, which will address this area in a systematic and long-term manner. As a coalition commitment in a coalition partnership agreement, it is also the establishment of an Office for the Elderly. Finally, let me mention that we have agreed that Slovenia will also work within the UN to adopt one binding document regulating the systemic, long-term and, most importantly, binding; that this document will be binding on the protection of the rights of older persons. In conclusion, let me say what my colleague Gantar said in the introductions. The Desus Group will, of course, support your report. Mrs Nussdorfer, in Styria, in Maribor, we would say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Muršič, get ready, Mr Mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President; the Ombudsman with colleagues and State Secretarys, Members and Members! Today, we have the report of the Ombudsman, which has quite an extensive piece of paper that contains all the chapters that need to stand up for us. Everyone needs to see what it says here, and we are politicians here to solve these things; without deepening these reports year after year and doing nothing in this area. I'm going to touch the housing issue. The crisis we are witnessing has exposed all the misery in which the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia live. One of the basic needs of life is the need for housing, which is becoming increasingly self-sustaining. A reflection of the harsh reality is daily reporting of threats to the media, including by the participation of people who cannot pay rent costs. Tragic stories, denials, and worst of all — tragic stories of children — are behind them. In these cases, families are divided. Children can also land in foster homes. This is sad, and even more so — worrying. In such cases, where non-profit housing is owned by local communities or countries, flexibility should be demonstrated and all necessary support should be given to those at risk. Some congregations, along with social work centers, deal with each case individually, which is the only right thing to do. This should apply to all local communities and not only to certain ones, as the trauma of these families at the loss of their homes is very painful. Moreover, human rights in housing matters are a constant of these reports. For many years, the Ombudsman has expressed dissatisfaction with the situation in the area of housing issues, as he has not seen any progress in the systematic adoption and implementation of measures to address the housing problem – and this is worrying. I support the recommendation's request to ensure a fairer system for assessing housing and social conditions and assessing the advantages of categories of individuals in order to define the obligation to ensure a certain number of housing units. As the Ombudsman points out, the problems he deals mainly with in the report are of a systemic nature. The housing structure is based on the ownership model. In Slovenia, it is estimated that only 7% of rentals, of which 4% are marketed and 3% are non-profit. The absence of a developed housing market is now one of the key shortcomings. A small offer of accommodation for rent does not provide an alternative to a long-term debt to solve the housing problem, as our young people feel the most, since access to this most important option of independence is completely impossible. I believe that it is necessary to approach the new National Housing Scheme Act as soon as possible and to identify incentives that will release housing capacities. I also insist on the initiative that unoccupied state-owned apartments, including state-owned banks, be leased primarily to young people, young people with low rents. In addition to these measures, we propose to explore the model of transitional dwellings as they know them in Scandinavia. Due to the frequency of the last period I mentioned at the outset, it is urgent to approach the establishment of temporary housing units for the borrowers. I will also mention again the problem of housing, which has been dragging for twenty-four years. I also pointed out this issue to the Minister for the Environment on Monday's parliamentary issue. Despite the fact that it is just a few hundred residential dwellings and their families in an unequal situation, the Ombudsman reiterates that legislation needs to be harmonised for all users of household apartments. And in this place, I hope that the Minister will read the Ombudsman's recommendation and in the coming year also eliminate inequalities between the housewives who have managed to deal with many efforts and bureaucratic complications, and those who have failed to do so because of these bureaucratic issues. This means inequality, injustice, and great uncertainty for the domestics and especially for their families. Finally, let me just mention that the report is really quality, clearly shown, for which I thank the guardian in this place most highly and I wish her much success in her further work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Branislav Rajić. Get Mr. Primož Hainz ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Guardian, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! I believe that the 2013 report of the Ombudsman is very comprehensive and transparent. In it I see in particular a guide, useful to all instances in correcting errors in areas falling within their competence. I regret to note that certain cases are repeated year after year without accession to their resolution. In view of the initiatives and complaints received by the Ombudsman in the past year, it seems that the Institute of the Ombudsman is not the last, but sometimes the only mechanism to which some individuals turn. Here it is necessary to distinguish between cases that point to some systemic errors and isolated cases that are still well addressed, as they may also be a warning that there is a potential threat in some area that can affect a larger number of individuals of a social group. I will focus on two extremely important areas. The first concerns the prevention of violence against women and the family and the second concerns the rights of children. Both are about the signing of an international agreement, which has not yet been put into practice by Slovenia. Both areas are topical – yesterday was the international day of the child and Tuesday, 25 November, is the international day against violence against women. In this context, I would therefore point out the Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and on the fight against them and the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Istanbul Convention has already been adopted in April 2011 and commits countries to an integrated approach to addressing violence against women, including domestic violence, which also means preventing, protecting against and supporting victims and prosecuting perpetrators. The Convention underlines the responsibility of States to promote gender equality and the protection of human rights for persons who are victims of such violence. The Convention is also important in terms of the introduction of new delicacies and the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the Convention. I have highlighted this Convention because violence against women and domestic violence are the two most common and widespread forms of violence, but they often remain undiscovered. The Istanbul Convention will be adopted very soon in the Government and will then come to the National Assembly for consideration. The proposal for ratification is therefore prepared. The coalition members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons have already received a briefing. Even if this is adopted in the National Assembly in a few months' time, it is still a fact that we are late for adoption of this document. The third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child was signed in February 2012, but has not yet been ratified by Slovenia. I would like to point out that this year is also the 25th anniversary of the adoption of this Convention, because it is Slovenia that has been the trigger for the creation of the third protocol at international level and is very active in the negotiating process. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the last of the fundamental international human rights treaties which did not have an appeal mechanism. Individuals from the States Parties to the Third Optional Protocol are thus allowed to contact the UN Committee on Child Rights in the event of a violation of the rights of children after the exhaustion of domestic remedies, which oversees the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. From the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have received information that the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child is in the process of preparing a proposal for ratification. I would like to point out that this does not yet mean that the objective has been achieved, as this process can take another year or until there is political will. At this point, however, I would like to invite all those who show political will to do so constructively. Today I have focused on these two conventions. Despite the fact that these documents do not come from the Ombudsman's Report explicitly, I would like to point out this, since this is more than appropriate in the context of the debate on ensuring respect for human rights. We also need to be up-to-date and swift in implementing international agreements into national law if we are to preserve the country of prosperity and social progress. I certainly hope that in the Republic of Slovenia we will soon ratify both of these conventions, and we will therefore be among the countries that have taken the right side when it comes to the rights of children and to the prevention of violence against women and violence in the family. I would like to thank you, Madam Guardian, and your co-workers for reminding you once again of the problem in both areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Guardian, representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! We can see that the Ombudsman’s report is more extensive each year. Notwithstanding the new approach, the fact that the number of well-founded initiatives addressed by the Ombudsman is increasing. This brings us to the logical conclusion that state institutions do not function as they should, or that they are ineffective in dealing with many specific situations of life. Of course, it is also possible to increase the awareness of people and the reputation of the Ombudsman and therefore there are significantly more cases recorded than in previous years; it is probably a combination of both elements. The fact is that people cannot exercise some of their fundamental rights. From the Ombudsman's report, I would like to highlight some content. First, the fact is that legislation is written in a complex and incomprehensible way or is understood by some dedicated, mostly lawyers. Too many laws – and this seems to me to be an even bigger problem – are written by outside coworkers, according to the system of so-called outsourcing, where the non-executiveness of the law is often involved and also its misappropriation – is pre-acting. Secondly, as regards the issue of the elderly and their problems, I expose the problem of violence against the elderly. It's physical, psychological and economic violence. The fact is that violence against the elderly is also linked to violence against young people, so it is domestic violence as a whole. And domestic violence is on the rise, as you can see. They also point out this problem at social work centres, noting that in cases of encounters with violence they do not have a basis for action, except for reporting to the police or comforting talks, which are extremely important but not effective. Civil society has also begun to deal with the area of violence against the elderly, i.e. the Union of Retired Slovenian Associations, within the framework of the Senior for Older Persons programme. This action is also supported by Desus, even more – many of our members as members of the Retired Association are activists of this humane action. The third major problem I mention is the situation in household care or information about shortages of cities in nursing homes. This information is not accurate. You know there's enough cities in the homes. In particular, this is about private homes, because services are far too expensive in them, and most of the elderly, except for rare individuals, cannot afford it. But we also have state homes and concessional homes. There are also some spaces in these, or not so many, of course there are some differences between large cities and the surrounding area. This too raises the question of material reality — many older ones cancel homes or are taken from their homes by relatives. Here both issues — the problem of violence and the problem of home space — are intertwined. Some younger ones simply take them out of their homes, of course take their pensions, and then in some ways — if there is no great violence, at least psychologically — ignore them and leave them behind. This is very briefly something "observance", if I may say, to this report, which I find very quality. Of course, I join all those who have already praised him, including the party Desus. We recommend to the State, to the Government, of course also to all Members your recommendations for serious consideration also for further and warm reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, get Mrs. Anita Kolesh ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear High Council! The mission of the Social Democratic Party is also concerned about the rights of workers. Here I would like to hold back briefly when I comment on the Ombudsman's Report, which lists the combination of payment non-discipline in companies and business chains – the company's real owner closes down, the establishment of a new company for the same activity, etc. and in this way avoid in essence its obligations and the payment of its obligations to employees in older, former enterprises. It is a simple fraud and I think that such frauds must be prosecuted, and they must be sanctioned. In this case, their number will also fall rapidly and the rights of employees to fair pay, which are practically part of the constitutionally guaranteed rights, will be guaranteed. The current sale of Slovenian companies will also have a similar negative effect. In this context, jobs are being sold, not to work as a work force, and jobs are now employed there, as well as jobs of potential future employees, who will lose the opportunity to engage in the quality development of these branches, which will have centres outside Slovenia. This is also an extension of human rights violations. There is something about it now; all the main things, my dears or respectable ones, are yet to come. Everything in this area is just coming. I agree with the Mags. Bojano Muršič, that in Slovenia it is also necessary to provide some kind of intervention when it is necessary to intervene, regardless of the entitlements to a legal basis, etc. This was painfully demonstrated by the ZUJF, which stopped financing the diet of students and students introduced by the Pahor government. At that time, we were dealing with hungry children, where an institution should react at the right time. This was later improved in the law, of course, but the interim period was rather tragic. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the problem of unemployment, which is a serious assault on workers' rights. This problem has been reduced in the last year, for the first time in this crisis. This is not such a wealth, you know, it took a long time in this crisis, but it went up in 2011 for a few months, and then it started to fall again. It's improved now. The main lever in this area is, of course, an active employment policy led by the Ministry of Labour in the Slovenian Government, in addition to successful export restructuring. I think that this policy needs to be continued and that it will continue to have very positive results. We also have large reserves in this area with credit policy. When this relaxes – if it relaxes, as the European Central Bank tries to relax it, with various informal actions or non-conventional actions by its Governor Draghi – then the social situation will be significantly improved for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs Anita Kolesh has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u56	Hello, Madam President, everyone who is here in the Chamber, especially the Ombudsman with both colleagues! Of course, I am joining all those who have praised your work, your report. It's really transparent, it's really personal. We are now discussing the content and I would like to add something to it. The first point I would like to comment on is, in very short, the beginning of your report, which you have addressed inadvertently with regard to the adoption of legislation. You say that many laws are passed quickly and recklessly, even in violation of the Constitution. Too many changes and additions to laws do not help to strengthen legal certainty. This knowledge of you seems particularly important to me to inform you of our commitment to any changes to new legislation, or changes to new ones, or changes to change themselves, even though we are constantly more or less under pressure to find appropriate legal solutions on a whole range of matters in the past few months. But I think this would really risk reckless hand-to-handing, as you've been giving. Hence, some form of assurance of our commitment to pursue these laws with soundness of mind. We hope this works. But I would like to mention another problem that may not be so important on the first ball, but I think it's getting more and more important. I would also like to ask you for your cooperation and your help. A while ago, in a week, I read an interesting contribution on psychological violence, presented in a rather visual way, when the editor took one of the popular TV shows under surveillance. Of course, it does not matter what kind of broadcast it was, I will not talk about it; I will talk about where the limits of permissibility are when we play certain content in the media – with emphasis on psychological violence, and in what way do we justify it. We must be aware that media content is also part of the education of our children and adolescents. Not only are the hurtful words used to describe violence as psychological, but they are also the physical attitude of individuals and behavior that at a given time speak more than the words themselves. When the media do not define or judge the content with elements of psychological violence, it seems that everything is fine and right. And I'm asking a lot of questions about that. How do responsible editors and media owners understand the responsibility they have in designing a system of values in society? Is the range of a broadcast really the only criterion in whether any content is suitable for playing? What attitude do parents and caregivers have toward such content, and they pass this attitude on to their children, whether directly or indirectly? What are the responses of the professional public to this psychological violence that occurs mainly in so-called reality shows? What attitude do each of us individually and all of us together, who are representatives of this institution and of all citizens? The answers to these questions form the foundations of our society and our values. Therefore, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the recommendations of the Ombudsman, which are written in the field of media. In the Ombudsman’s Report, the media are exposed to several places, and special attention is paid to children in the media and sensationalism reports on children and the use of children for greater viewership and obedience to better sales. In the context of the abuse of persons in inappropriate media content, as in the violation of any other human rights, we cannot wait for some phenomenon, such as the play of content with elements of mental violence, to become mass, since it is already too late. But as individuals and society, we can react. Therefore, on this occasion, I also appeal to the Ombudsman to respond even more in the future and to pay attention to these negative trends and threats in the field of media content and to try to find a way to talk about this much more and to respond much better. Thank you very much for your work, Madam Guardian. I very much appreciate it. My assurance is that this book will be reviewed repeatedly in the closet. I hope you'll be successful in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u58	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Guardian with Fellow Workers, Honourable Representatives of the Government! When we talk about human rights, we need to see them in a broader and narrower sense or context. Therefore, in a way, I cannot agree with the representative of Desus, Mr Gantar, in the part where he said he wanted the Ombudsman's report to be shorter in the future. Indeed, the greater our sensitivity to human rights violations and the closer we will be to zero tolerance for these violations, the more we will talk about it, the more we will write about it and the more our society will progress. Therefore, I thank you for this extensive document, and I hope that we will talk a lot about this in the future. But I want something else to be shared in these reports not to be repeated again and again and to be written in some drawers and to be taken from here and there. Because there is actually a need to approach these problems, or we will remain in the talks over and over again, in words – it would be good, we will take action and so on. I apologize, but I found it somewhat inappropriate to discuss the representative of the Social Democrats, who referred to the additional proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the form of amendments as publicists and used quite a part of the debate itself for demagogic speech – and I will also tell you why. A representative of this party, who has been practically in government all the time, could make sure that some topics should no longer be discussed, nor should they be addressed. When we talk about the economic and social distress that is reflected today and is increasingly present – and today the Ombudsman and other discussers have talked about it – it would be wise for them to first turn to their representatives, such as the representatives of Forum 21. As a result, these problems and infringements would certainly be significantly reduced. When we talk about the plight of children today, this moment, why don't you go to your former Minister of Education, who could certainly take a step further. Better yet, to your former and current Minister of Social Affairs – there needs to be a search for solutions. However, the role of the guardian is to make them aware that he is exposing them and that he is doing his best to help them do so. Today, there have already been talks about certain violations that can be classified in the so-called broader context. It is our citizens and citizens, who are still in the age of advanced society, who are in some way discriminated against and deprived of fundamental rights, that is the right to water. Many parts of Slovenia still do not have water and sewage systems installed today, so let me point out here the dry-land water supply, where the solution has long been missing for too long. It is indeed sad that we must face such violations of rights at this time, for, after all, water is good, justice; and not privileges. However, to some citizens, unfortunately, we are acting the opposite way that they are not yet able to afford it or afford it because there is no money. On the other hand, we still spend a lot of money on protocol activities in budgets or rebalancies. Today there was also talk about the Roma problem. She's been exposed several times and it's right to talk about it. However, the problem posed by certain environments was not so exposed because of the unresolved Roma problem. I'm talking about people who are often turning to us for help, because they want this problem to be solved for the benefit of everyone, and we're still kind of digging into it. This is also where we have to expose Dolenjska. There are also physical bills and things can lead to worse. We talked a lot about the state and efficiency of the justice system yesterday. I believe that the guardian has been aware of all that has been said, of course, in the sad fact that she already knows a lot of this and that things in these matters are not being resolved as they should be, because individual violations have been going on for years and years. The guardian wrote a lot about this in her own report. But I believe there could be more. The Ombudsman also calls for greater sensitivity in the next amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Let me point out that today one of the following points will be devoted to this particular debate and we will also talk about the problems that the Ombudsman is referring to in some way. The Ombudsman, I regret to inform you that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which in some way would also be a step further towards ensuring the rights of the party in the process, has been rejected by the coalition. You can see what I'm talking about so I won't steal from you now. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the timely performance of police tasks in the report. Unfortunately, we will also face this issue in the future. I am sure — and I am sorry to see him more and more. Why? I am not talking about the police doing their job badly, but I am talking about the fact that, because of the deteriorating situation in this area, we are also prolonging their response time in this way. We also wanted to talk about this, a respected guardian, and the coalition was not thrilled to discuss it. It would also be right to speak about their rights themselves, because in some ways the deterioration of the position of the police also makes the individual situation of each of them completely worse and there is a violation of the rights. Allow me, Your Honor, to look at myself in the future. As we can read from the media, I think that since yesterday, we will most likely also be dealing in the 2014 Report with human rights violations affecting my colleagues, Members and Members. They were affected by the ruling coalition and a good part of the opposition. This will be discussed in the 2014 report. However, I am a little concerned, and it seems to me that this debate will be a little strange in our country, that Members and Members will be discussing human rights violations in our society; on the other hand, they will be violators themselves. And this is a problem, a respected guardian, who, unfortunately, will be faced with most likely in the future report. We should be talking about this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Chairman, the Guardian, the others present! Initially, I should also mention that the Ombudsman's annual report is substantively well prepared, but it is very transparent and clear. I commend those who have prepared this. However, I will limit my debate to some of the specific problems mentioned in the Ombudsman's annual report under the chapter on the Rights of the Child and the recommendations of the Ombudsman, which I support. I will try to make them work because the number of initiatives will be smaller in the future. High school education in the hospital school. Individual assistance to secondary school students is provided only for general educational subjects, as it is difficult to create a uniform concept of work in secondary schools based on the level of education at different levels of difficulty and because of the different number of hours of teaching. The educational institution or school shall draw up an individual work plan for the student who is absent in accordance with a teaching contract designed by all stakeholders. All these are the reasons why it seems very difficult for the Ministry to find solutions that meet all the legal requirements, as recommended by the Ombudsman, but must be maintained. On this occasion, I express my concern and call for an appropriate solution as soon as possible for children in need of such assistance. In Slovenia, according to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, 123 pupils were educated at home in 2012 and 2013, but their number has grown over the last seven years. Under the Basic School Act, home education is a voluntary and exclusive right of parents, so it is also not defined as a child's right. For the Ombudsman rightly notes that the Basic School Act does not lay down any requirements for the one who teaches the child – in this part, I especially stress the quality of home education. Although the Ministry has not detected any difficulties in implementing this method of work, the Ombudsman recommends that it study the subject, complement this part of the School Basic Law. I believe that additions to this law are necessary, in particular in the field of checking the learning outcomes of these students, the possibility of multiple checks throughout the year, and the conditions for those teaching at home should also be regulated. But especially important to me is the analysis of the socialisation of these children, as the Ombudsman points out. Regarding inappropriate content in teaching materials and developments over the past two years, the professional public is divided. I support the autonomy of teachers in the selection of literature or art text at all levels of education. Teachers are trained to judge which texts they will address and can also interpret and evaluate them. By restricting and censoring, we would have intervened in their professional autonomy. However, I agree with the Ombudsman on the novel ZOFVI, which would prohibit certain persons from concluding their employment relationship and other activities in schools. As I know, the new law is already in preparation and we can expect it to be adopted soon. In the end, I'd like to mention one more thing. At a conference last Thursday in the National Assembly on the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, students and students also spoke about the participation of children and adolescents in the educational process. They discussed the under-representation of civic competences in the primary school curriculum and compulsory selection content in secondary schools, and implementation is left here only to schools, the lack of knowledge of political and social content, which of course limits the active and democratic participation of young people. Not just listening, I think you should hear them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u62	All present, especially the guardian lady with the co-workers! I would also like to commend this report because it really concerns all the more important areas of our lives. Above all, I would stress that it would really be necessary to follow more consistently and more quickly the recommendations that this report brings to our attention. The Ombudsman's report also mentions the problems of young people with disabilities who very often do not find suitable accommodation. In this area, I would focus mainly on the population whose disability occurred at birth or at childhood. These disabled people are often left in the care of their parents or close family members when they become adults. And because there is not enough room in the social institutions, especially in the work centres, their guardians are then in a very troubled adult age, after they themselves are unable to take care of them anymore. This is why they often turn to different institutions – themselves and also the societies in which they are involved. That is why I believe that this population should be given special attention in advance, as their relatives are indeed in distress and uncertainty. The other thing is that the law governing the accommodation of these persons, and also certain benefits, is already completely outdated and is also unconstitutional in certain parts, as it does not regulate in an appropriate way the duties of living for these persons; therefore, I call for us to focus on this area in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are still following this session! In view of my general part, I would like to highlight two things in particular, first of all, I am very pleased that the guardian has given her hand to the media in this report and her speech, because it is necessary to conclude that such institutions operate through the media. The pressure they put on society and create on non-response institutions is pressure through the media. And in this report and in presenting this report, the public is aware of the importance of this report and is aware of the power that such a report can create. Here we have seen that this type of topic is accessible to people, especially the accessibility of this type of topic to young people through new media channels. The media appears as the fourth branch of power and can exert pressure on the other three branches of authority. They're doing it to some extent. We have seen that in some cases people take advantage of the media to expose their problem, it comes to the Ombudsman or other institutions, and that is how we get the desired results. Of course, we must also pay attention to the second point: that multinationals and others can control the media and thus stop the flow of this information. People appear as victims of multinationals or even the media; and this is what is pointed out in this report. What is positive is that in Slovenia, in some cases, investigative journalism is beginning to appear, which, according to the indications given in this report, summarizes the subject and investigates matters further. In view of the repulsion then there are individual cases that have been the result of human rights violations. And also a key issue, we see that there is a growing visit to the website – this seems very positive to me – and that the new form, through these new media channels, Facebook and others, is the accessibility of young people to these topics. As interest grows, I think the future is in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm calling again. It was already said in the introduction that this report is very thorough, well prepared and reveals in fact hundreds or probably thousands of sad stories, injustices, pressures that just happen every day before us. I hope that such a report will remain a little longer between us, not only in today's debate, but probably in everyday work, given that we too often deal with ourselves and with our own difficulties, but also perhaps with injustices, which, despite everything on a completely different level, are different from those of whom the report speaks. And I think that this report is an excellent reflection of the situation in our country, because it covers virtually all areas. I would not go to individual rights, to individual groups; I believe that some may not be included, but I think that they are still a large majority and that is actually what we live in Slovenia today. Even though this report is thorough and well prepared, I think it is quite good with recommendations to us as well. I think kindly that, as has been mentioned many times, many of these rights violations are repeated year after year. And here are a clear set of recommendations on where it would be good to take action, what would be good to do. I fear that the same will happen in the future unless such a report of the Ombudsman is perhaps more binding on those who decide on it. In this case, I would also expect any proposal from the Office of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, how and where it is possible to improve this effectiveness, which should be reflected on the basis of such a report. It may be clearer to define, hard to say, worse injustices because they are all serious; or those who have actually appeared nonstop for many years and are a constant in all reports. And finally, of course, with clear responsibility or definition of those who get excited or who get excited about such recommendations. And as long as it doesn't, I'm afraid that, despite the fact that things are improving, that we're going to be witnesses, that things are going to happen again and again once a year, we're going to be talking about something better, but that still a lot of things aren't going to change and it's not happening. I don't think it's just looking for all the reasons in the crisis that we are in, that is, a lot of things that the report also refers to and that are not being solved are practically nothing. They cost some good will, good purpose, and, above all, respect for what is obvious and written, perhaps not in the first place for any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Vice-President, distinguished Madam Guardian, colleague and colleague! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the emotional introduction to the situation she is experiencing by what people have told her when she talked to them about their problems. Don't mind me, not even my emotional response, because I came here to deal with these things to help; and I want to keep doing that. And I will do my best to do that, and I urge all of us to deal with problems and not waste our time dealing with ourselves. The value of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Report is that it gives the most objective picture of the state of human rights protection in the country because it is a report by an institution independent of state authority. That is why its value is very high, and that is why I have often read the reports of the Ombudsman – and this is also very well prepared. However, I would like to highlight one part of your findings, which seems particularly important to me, namely the area of protection against discrimination in Slovenia. You mention it in the report, but I think it is important to point out, once again, that the advocate of the principle of equality in Slovenia has pointed out that the Slovenian system of protection against discrimination is critically ineffective. The advocate of the principle of equality notes that in Slovenia there is a partial non-compliance of legislation with international obligations and that this legislation is not clear enough and that all its addressees — victims, violators and even authorities responsible for action — are already able, on the basis of the text of the relevant laws and without a difficult legal explanation, to determine for themselves what their legal situation is, that is, what rights and obligations, what I can and can't do. Furthermore, the advocate notes that we do not have an effective system for legal protection, so the legal system is complex, opaque and quite ineffective. It also points to a weak system of independent support for victims of discrimination, which I think is very important, as we have heard in response to parliamentary questions, since we do not have an effective and independent body to protect against discrimination. Among other things, this body has no right because it does not exist, nor can it represent victims before discrimination. I have also met many times on my own in procedures with people who were not able to represent themselves in the procedures in which they would appear; and even if they were represented, they would not have the proper knowledge to achieve the right. However, even if we had succeeded in our legal system, there would be no major impact. The promoter of the principle of equality notes that there is also no comprehensive data collection, independent monitoring and systematic monitoring and incentives. It further notes that we do not have effective, well-coordinated policies and political leadership in the country with regard to discrimination. It also states that we have the denial, underestimation or denial of the problem of discrimination and the lack of political will to deal with it. I think it is very important that we face this problem and do everything we can to ensure that this institution is established to eliminate discrimination. From the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, we have heard that this work is being done and that it is intended to be established in a short time, but not only to establish this institution, but also to change legislation and make the system more effective so that it can be effective for potential victims of discrimination in order to actually achieve effective legal protection. And in this area, I intend to engage myself. Thank you very much for the report, and much success in the work continues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u70	Dear Lady Guardian of Human Rights, her co-worker, the president and everyone else present, a nice greeting! The Ombudsman's report is extremely good, in all respects. Also, the Ombudsman’s opening report, reaching into the heart, was very good. So I'm sure he's doing his job with his heart. And so is her mission, which is not only her official duty as it is with many officials. In particular, I am referring to those who, when preparing different laws and other legal acts, do not see or deepen into the consequences that individual marriage solutions will have for people, not least in the light of human rights violations. It is in this regard that it is also important for us – Members and Members of Parliament. As I come from Desus, I will only draw attention to some of the findings in the 2013 Ombudsman Report concerning pension and disability insurance and the violation of pension rights. The Ombudsman notes that his recommendations have not been implemented to require the competent ministries to issue sub-laws relating to STIZ-2 within the time limits set by him. Thus, the Minister of Health has still not issued a regulation on occupational diseases. We know what this means to carry out this insurance in practice. The Council for Persons with Disabilities, as an advisory body of the Government, does not work at all; we know that these are people who are even more vulnerable. The law on personal assistance and the law on long-term care, which is to be prepared by mid-2014, were laid down in the delegations of the competent ministries. The following should also be noted. On the basis of the Ombudsman's request, the Constitutional Court ruled the constitutionality or non-compliance of the Public Finance Balance Act. This affected as many as 26,000 pensioners who were unjustifiably deprived of their pensions. And STIZ reports in its report that some one million euros of damage was caused by the removal of these consequences. Therefore, it would also be good to seek responsibility here for such conduct. In May 2013, the National Assembly adopted a law to remedy the consequences of repealing these articles of this Act and again there were differences between the affected. Those who complained about the decision of PIZ on the reduction of the pension received the amounts withdrawn back; those who did not complain received the amounts repaid only in advance. In addition, no interest was paid to the affected pensioners for the amounts collected, while the State paid interest to public servants on the return of the unpaid salaries. This is what the guardian states in her report, from which I have also read. That is why I believe, as I have already said in the introduction, that Members and Members should be in the current term, most of us are new, more taken to prevent such injustices from being enacted. Finally, I would like to thank the Ombudsman, very much thank you for such a comprehensive report, it is indeed good and I would be happy if your recommendations were implemented. But it is up to us, and I hope that we will all work in this direction, that the violations will no longer occur as often as they have. At least that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr Mitji Horvat, to prepare Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear guardian, distinguished guests and, of course, fellow Members! The Ombudsman also did a lot of work in 2013, for which we received a report. My heart's hope is that this report will be cheaper every year. And in this amount, I will also count the success of its operation, which I know is not only up to it, but it depends, above all, on those to whom the recommendations are addressed. However, the irregularities identified would somehow be systematised in two types, i.e. in the rights of positive and negative status. I wish that the Ombudsman could at least be burdened to this extent to deal only with negative status rights, and I want to say that I expect all the authorities and all those operating within the social state to do their job. To do their job will not be as we spoke on the Committee for the last time, that the Ombudsman is finally the refuge of all those who are experiencing hardships that are affected by their rights and run into closed, excessive doors that cannot be opened. Even if they succeed in opening them up, they do not find an accomplice there, they do not find the realization of their interests, the need to make life easier for them to live a life worth living. Therefore, I sincerely hope that the guardian will also act as the protective father who steps next door and is successful in talking to this neighbor when his children are affected; so that an agreement can be reached and people can exercise their rights, as it is supposed to do with the rule of law. If the rule of law is flawed and cannot be realized in order to live a life worth living, it will be necessary to ensure that the situation in this area is improved. I therefore thank you once again for all the warnings in which areas in which we have not been successful enough in the past. I am afraid that the solution that we have heard several times in these days and also today that new jobs are enough to improve the situation in order to improve the situation of human rights – yes, to some extent. However, the hardships of those who are employed, not to mention those who have already met the conditions of retirement and who are struggling to get through life and feel their life as a life in distress, where they then resort to various forms of assistance – here I hope and appeal to our social sensitivity and our compassion. I also believe that it would be possible to facilitate the work of the guardian, whom I believe is now overburdened, because he cannot please and devote sufficient time to each of the victims. I hope and believe that in some way we will be able to aggregate and find cases where there are massive violations, so that we can solve more victims at the same time, if necessary here in the National Assembly or through the institutions of the executive branch, the judiciary or those who care for social rights. Again, thank you so much for your huge work. Thank you very much for being open to people who are experiencing difficulties to warn us about this and, as I say, I wish you that every year the Ombudsman's report will be cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Franc Jurša, to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, respectable guardian! The rest of the Ministry have a nice greeting, as well as colleagues and colleagues! I would not repeat this, but most of the debaters today have said to you that you have a well-prepared report and I am joining all of them. You invited me to a few points, which were specially left in my ears and when I was looking at the report, the rest was in my memory. I would also like to focus on some of these, or I would like to draw attention to myself, and I would like to express a personal opinion. Your call here today for a speaker was, above all, that we Members would not be so busy with each other anymore, because that is what our citizens and citizens think. I'm sure that's the point. As far as I can tell, 1.1%, I can promise you that I will do everything in my direction so that people will not think so. One thing that's been left in my ears, and it's been pointed out by several debaters. This is a burial, a worthy burial of all the dead — especially those who were killed after the war. I myself am in favour of such a solution that this is done as soon as possible, and I will also advocate that in the next budget rebalancing, as far as I can, money will also be provided to mark it properly, we will set up a monument for all those who have not been properly buried so far. You mentioned, above all, the great social hardship. Yes, at a time in which they live, in recession, this social distress is growing and is working especially for the weak. These are unemployed, old, young, unemployed, children and, to a large extent, disabled people. Unfortunately, more and more people are looking for food in garbage cans. This must be a worrying matter for our society. This is not only in Slovenia, unfortunately also elsewhere in the world, but perhaps even more. But we have to take care of our citizens and citizens. We have been called upon by people to make sure that they are as few as possible or as few as possible. You know, I also accompanied Pope Francis' address to representatives of 90 countries when he spoke about certain food-related matters at the United Nations Food Convention. One brief quote I will say here today: "It is painful to see the fight against hunger and malnutrition hindering market priorities and the primacy of profits that have turned food into ordinary commercial goods subject to financial speculation." He also said that "the poor and hungry are still standing on the streets asking for a healthy snack. We ask for dignity, not mercy..." and so on. This must mean a lot to all of us here. Some of you will tell me what about the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. You'll tell me what about the diocese in Maribor. I will answer in such a way that Pope Francis replaces the people at the head of the diocese and tries to put people who are not greedy in these places. These same issues should also be addressed in the country and removed from all those who have a high priority. We would probably have a much fairer society then, and there would be fewer people standing in the streets standing in front of garbage cans looking for food. Well, of course, I should never have ended up with this, because I am only a representative of a party that advocates for the older generation, for the older population, but not only for the older generation and the older population, we are very concerned about other things too. In the report, you mentioned the modern slavery of workers. You know, this slavery in Slovenia is huge and worrying. This chain is present in all environments, and I think we must root it out as soon as possible, together with the law-makers, us who adopt them in the National Assembly and with strong control, that we will not actually have modern slaves. Now, here's the thing I just mentioned. Look, we have about 600,000 pensioners in our country. The poverty threshold is estimated at €593 for 2013. Under this amount, he has a pension of 296 thousand 847. We can say 50% of all pensioners. Now the appeal to the Government – it is she who can in some way try to arrange these matters, as far as she has the opportunities, opportunities, financial resources, I also understand – first to the President of the Government, second to the Minister of Finance, third to the Minister of Labour, the family, social affairs, equal opportunities and, of course, to all members of the Government. We are also a coalition party, but when someone talks about taking away the pension or regress for pensioners who have this money mainly for purchase, I will say just as simple and simple in the countryside to buy trees so that they can warm up in the winter, and then I cannot accept the matter peacefully and react. This probably doesn't mean that we don't have to deal too much with ourselves, which means that I want to say that we don't have anything to take from those who don't. I wish you a successful job this year, as my predecessor Dr. Horvath said, that next year you will bring us as cheap a report as possible and as few recommendations as possible. This is a sign that we have all done something that we have promised here in the hall today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, respectable guardian of human rights! We have before us today the 19th regular annual report of the Ombudsman dealing with violations for 2013. Today, in the debate, both members of the opposition and members of the coalition find that this is a very well-prepared report and I am here already several mandates, and since I have always been a member of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, which is considered to be the mother body of the right report of the Ombudsman, I can say, given that I can make a comparison with previous reports that this report is probably the best report so far, with regard to the transparency of human rights violations and the concept of content itself. So from this point of view, certainly all congratulations are on my side. In my opening address, or in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I have highlighted those key human rights violations that I personally assess, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, that they are the most problematic at this time. I have therefore talked about labour law and human rights violations associated with it, I have talked about poverty, which is undoubtedly a major problem in Slovenia at present, of course, it can be deepened if we do not take concrete and appropriate measures in the field of the economy and in the area of consolidation of public finances. Of course, I was also talking about unemployment, which goes hand in hand with poverty, and you have also remained alert to the alarmingness that is undoubtedly great about unemployment. I was talking about the mobile phone, including the hate speech that is still very present, and here I agree with all those who have said that we are responsible to the politicians or those who are making public statements, and that, clearly, we need to think more than just say something that might be misunderstood in the public. From this point of view, I also understand the message recorded by the Ombudsman, and I think that on the 26th page of the report, when he says that we must draw attention to the hate speech among ourselves when we see it. I did not speak in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for example, about the violations relating to justice, we have talked a lot about this yesterday and also several times so far, but I would like to point out, above all, the judicial backlogs which personally seem to me to be a very serious violation of the rights of those who have been waiting too long for a ruling of the courts and so on. As a result of a violation of the right to a trial without undue delay and a trial within a reasonable period of time, the Republic of Slovenia has paid up to EUR 2 000 644 in compensation and settlement from 2005 to the end of 2009, a total value of approximately EUR 6 million. In view of the situation we are in, this is not a mere wave of information, and this means that more than we will have judicial backlogs, of course more resources will have to be made available to remedy this situation. In 2011 alone, some one million euros were paid for trials in unreasonable terms, and from 2005 to 2013, the State paid a total of 8 million euros for compensation and settlement. Now, let us imagine what we could do with these 8 million euros, perhaps even in terms of improving the state of justice, given that justice, although it does not take on too much responsibility – even more, the Attorney General says that the prosecution must be exempt from any responsibility – but still require certain resources. I argue that the courts need funds for their work, they must also get them, but they must also know that they must be responsible for certain procedures they are taking, which means that if judges violate human rights in proceedings, they must be punished. Now that I have very little time left, I would just like to mention that we have prepared six amendments to the proposal for a recommendation in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The three amendments are about justice, and I've partly justified them. The proposed recommendations propose the adoption of appropriate normative measures to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, the establishment of accountability in court, the elimination of circumstances that give rise to the appearance of bias, doubts about the independence of the judiciary, the fairness of judicial proceedings and the raising of public confidence in justice. So that I wouldn't read these three amendments, I just justified what was the point of all three. Then we have an amendment that's tied to housing. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Ministry of Environment and Space prepare a national housing programme as soon as possible. We all know that this is a big problem. Let me explain that the national housing programme 2013-2022 has already been published on the Ministry's website as of 20 March 2013, but has not yet been sent to the legislative process. The Ombudsman also points out this in her report and notes that progress in the adoption of the national housing programme has not been detected and has not, at the last, devoted itself to the whole sub-chapter. This way, I would like to make a request here to all Members who are here in the National Assembly to accept this recommendation today. It has already been proposed once on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, but it has not been voted on, and today I hope it will. Because it's not harmful, but it's good. Then we already have two amendments relating to health care and health insurance. The National Assembly of the Ministry of Health recommends that systematic measures be put in place to ensure greater efficiency of all types [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . For we all know that it is necessary to reform health care, that something needs to be done in this area as well. Since I'm running out of time, I hope you'll support these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Simoni Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear guardian, respectable deputy guardian, esteemed council, distinguished representatives of the government! Actually, this morning was a return to my last job for me. In a way, it was some sort of textbook proof of where we are when we talk about the state of human rights in our country. Teaching proof, in particular, from three angles of view. Proof that human rights are not an easy phenomenon, but are an extremely complex phenomenon and that they have within them three faces; if you want, three powers. One is this so-called legal face, called legal regulation or regulation of what human rights should be. The second is the political face of human rights, which we have had the opportunity today to listen to everything from morning to morning. It is also possible to see in such a way that the ruling Members and Members of the coalition parliamentary groups sat here and debated, listened to this debate on the state of human rights and on the Ombudsman's report, and with much less intense opposition representatives of the sentinel groups. This brings me to the third face when we talk about human rights, and this is the so-called moral face or moral strength of human rights, when no regulation is needed when no practice is needed, it is only necessary to have an adequate value system that guides us, and then we do not need any law, no rules, but only through our moral relationship and ethics do we really understand what is right and what is wrong, what we have a duty, what we have to warn about and what we need to do as an example in the future in our work. The second main message I can see today from this debate, and in particular from what we have had the opportunity to read in the Ombudsman's report, not only in this, in fact, in all the past, and which was very obvious at the stage when we considered this report, before it came to the point, within the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. That is the question, in fact, the need to whether and how the country should enter the field of human rights with its policies. And when he comes in, is there really a need for this and what it should look like? There are practically two diametrically opposite answers to this question, as well as to practice. On the one hand, the practice to which the Ombudsman points out in his report, even in his repeated speeches, indicating that the State is extremely important; an extremely important milestone, a custodian for the protection of human rights in the sense that he is in some way a custodian, a caregiver, when, under such or other circumstances, an individual or a civil society is unable to do so with its own capital. In this respect, an institutional safeguard instrument has been established, which we have already heard today, that it has a long history in our country and actually extends from the work carried out by the Ombudsman to all institutions of the judiciary. It has also been shown here that with the letter on paper we have also established certain institutions with this purpose, which remain unfortunately a letter on paper, it has also been shown here that the interinstitutional cooperation of the institutions of the State established for the primary purpose of the care and protection of human rights is often very weak. But something else has come up, and this is this other face of this custody, care function, if you want, of countries in relation to human rights; that is how the need for different human rights content is actually present today. This means that we are not just dealing with the issue of fundamental human rights anymore, but we are dealing with what the United Nations defines as all four or even five generations of different kinds of different human rights content. And more than that, it has turned out that in our country, in fact, they suffer the most in abuse, in disregard of human rights, different groups that are already vulnerable and minority in society. That's what the guardian warned us about, and that's what's worth reminding us again. Although the foundation of justice is guaranteed, at the same time the most basic, if you want moral rights, morals, morals, in our country is a strong limp in various areas of our public and private life. Groups such as the socially weak, children, young people, the elderly, the unemployed and the unemployed, the disabled, the children with special needs, the minorities - this is what we were talking about. We're talking about the groups that need this country the most. And we're talking at the same time about everything being written down. But it's not being implemented! Or it's written down, but it's interpreted according to its own needs, according to its own purposes. This second face is diametrically opposite to why we do not need the role of the country and the role of politics in human rights, and we still have it and we can observe it. This is the face of when human rights become a tool for political power and to be used as an instrument with which they continue to divide and deepen intolerance and diversity, disagreements and conflicts in some civil society. At this point, actually, I would like to say just one more thing, and then – I see that I still have enough time to say a few more things about the amendments of colleagues from the SDS Group. I would like to say that when we talk about human rights in a way such as rights, which have legal, political and moral power within us, we are also discussing that the precise responsibility we bear is the bearers of these human rights, the institutions and institutions that we are sent here to care for human rights. And it is well known, if you want, and now legally and politically, but certainly with an individual — I hope — who is responsible, who is responsible, who is responsible, why he is responsible, how he is responsible, and what consequences his actions and omissions have in relation to this responsibility. And what consequences this brings to those who are or are here. Now, as has been said, some responses or clarifications to the three amendments already tabled by the SDS Group to the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities have been made, but our Group of Members or members of this SMC Group have not agreed with them and will not be supported by the entire Group of Members today. The first proposal was to support the amendments in the area of Chapter 2.4 Justice - I am talking about the chapter in the report of the Ombudsman. Let me put it another way: the general response to all the proposed amendments is that, in fact, in the report, all of these recommendations, which the SDS Group then made in the form of amendments, are already present in the Ombudsman's recommendations, so that we felt that this was somehow in the light of what I was saying earlier. However, some additional substantive explanations are still required to understand that it was not our caprice, not muscle tightening that we did not support these amendments, but were strong substantive reasons behind. If we're talking about the amendments in the field of justice, I'd say so. We did not support them because all the recommendations already contained in the Ombudsman's existing recommendations, in recommendations 47 to 60. Whether they are already in practice or already part of the existing legal order, there is no need for the legislative branch of the authorities to intervene further at this point, as this would even be unconstitutional. As regards projects related to greater transparency and efficiency in the work of the judiciary and the reduction of judicial proceedings, it should be said that they are already being implemented. And I'll tell you how. In 2002, an analysis of judicial backlogs was carried out in the Republic of Slovenia, an analysis of the causes and proposals for reduction and elimination. From 2002 to 2004, several measures were planned and implemented within the twinning framework of the Modernisation of the Justice System project, aimed also at reducing and remedying judicial backlogs. Since 2001, the judiciary has dealt with the abolition of judicial backlogs in several projects, such as Hercules, Matra Flex. In the framework of the audit report, the Court of Auditors sought answers to questions as to whether the Republic of Slovenia was effective and successful in the resolution of judicial arrears. The Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice recommended that each person should take into account and implement the audit recommendations in the framework of their respective competences and with appropriate cooperation. Also in June 2013 a commitment was signed between the Supreme Court and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to improve the situation in the judiciary. Let's move on. About the impartiality of the judges. The request then follows the case law of the European Court of Human Rights — Article 6, first paragraph of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. However, the current legal regime regulates the issue of the expulsion of judges, which indirectly allows the appearance of the Court's impartiality to remain intact. The Criminal Procedure Act is aware of the so-called exclusionary reasons and the grounds for the existence of circumstances that raise doubts about the Court's impartiality. With regard to the constitutional independence of judges. Judges are independent in the performance of their functions but are bound by legislation or constitution – we are talking about Article 125 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The independence of judges is not intended for itself but ensures at the same time the expertise and impartiality that each individual rightly expects from the courts and from the judges. Remember when I was talking about responsibility? With regard to the disciplinary responsibility of judges, this is regulated in Section 7 of the Courts Act. With regard to the criminal liability of judges, this is regulated by the Penal Code, which is aware of the criminal offence of an illegal, biased and unjust trial. We are talking about Article 288 of the Penal Code, which is made by a judge if, in the conduct of a judicial proceeding or in the case of a judicial decision, he knowingly violates the law or distorts the right to prejudice or unjustifiably give the party an advantage in the proceedings, or if, for the purpose described, he places a judicial decision on facts which he knows do not exist or are falsely instigated with lies and inadmissible evidence. We will also have one point and one vote on this subject today in the context of the so-called Mandate-Election Commission points, so that this is also fully respected. Then we have an amendment to administrative matters, health care and health insurance, namely, in its 124th and 125th recommendations, the Ombudsman has already indicated or has already stated what is already being done or recommended in relation to this proposal. Nor do we see any need for an addition here or after the vote for an amendment, and the same applies to the amendment relating to housing matters. It's already this one. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of State Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Madame Guardian, both deputies, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have listened to this debate, and somehow as a representative of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is the Ministry, which somehow relates to the most initiatives, the most requirements for respecting the human situation, for the realization and resolution of these crises from the individual's point of view and the consequences felt by individuals, I feel responsible and obliged to come forward on this occasion. Not to answer in detail, or to explain, or even to defend, or to defend the government or our ministry, but to respond to some of the areas that have been exposed and to say where we are today in these areas. First, about poverty. This year we received two indicators, two studies touching poverty, the first level of poverty risk in Slovenia based on data from the Statistical Office, and the second is child poverty based on the UNICEF survey. For both results, poverty increased in Slovenia. I must point out that this is data on income from 2012, which means that research is always lagging behind on current issues for some time, but I cannot optimistically predict that when research is done for 2013, the level of risk of poverty will be lower. Unfortunately, I cannot say this because we know that in Slovenia the longest tooth crisis showed exactly in 2012 and 2013 and that the situation of individuals and individuals became the most serious. We have already seen this, so by the end of 2013, we have already adopted some changes in social legislation relating to the situation of the most vulnerable, namely, single parent families, families where one or both parents are unemployed, and older households with only one person, usually older women. It is for these target groups that we have taken action, and the results will, as we say, not show up yet, but will only show up once the data data risk assessment of poverty is carried out in 2014, which will only be 2016 when the results are known. But let me just say that yes, it's horrible, every poor child is a disgrace and doesn't deserve it, it doesn't deserve it. There has been an increase in the number of poor children, but Slovenia still ranks 7th on the entire scale and 7th place and 6th place within the European Union, because Norway is still the one that has come ahead. As regards delays in the exercise of rights from public funds, as well as in the area of scholarships and work rights. These warnings are multiannual in recommendations, are multi-annual and are justified, absolutely justified, because no one deserves to wait for its decision to be decided at the second stage for so long. That is why we have tackled this problem, and I must say that delays in the area of scholarships and work rights are no longer, so to speak, ongoing matters are being resolved. However, as regards delays in the exercise of rights from public funds, the report mentions a figure of 10 thousand 200 or something like that, almost 11 000, from the beginning of this week is 4 thousand 200. Yes, that's still a lot, but by the end of September, we are committed to completely eliminating these backlogs and that only current matters will be resolved. As regards employment, when the economic situation improves, it is expected that employment as well, and this activity in the labour market, for example, will increase on its own. However, at this time of crisis, measures were urgently needed to mitigate this natural flow of the labour market, so that we used the European funds to integrate the unemployed through different employment programmes to say 100 per cent – I think that the number is between 97 and 98 per cent – because we are aware that these are not permanent measures that could work for ten, twenty, thirty years, because we do not expect this crisis to last for ten, twenty, thirty years. However, for this interim period, these measures are certainly necessary in order to have at least a certain proportion of employment. And the results of the reduction in the number of unemployed show that it was necessary. It is particularly important and is worth €157.7 million to highlight this package of guarantees for young people, because young people are indeed the category most likely to bear the consequences of this crisis. They have emerged from education with extremely reduced employment opportunities and with extremely reduced self-reliance. That's why it was necessary. Perhaps to end the position of advocate of the principle of equality, you have already heard how this is being addressed yesterday in answering the questions raised by the Members. Let me just say a timeline, with 1 July 2015 we plan that the law will enter into force and be implemented and that the position of the Advocate of the principle of equality will be regulated in accordance with the recommendations of the European Union and will work in all three substantive areas in which it must work; that is to say, it deals with individual cases and advice, as well as awareness-raising and information, and not least independent research on non-discrimination. Finally, I might say that, although I do not know if this can be said, but nevertheless, the happiness of the disaster in this crisis has been that this crisis has brought some greater awareness that we are all living in a community, that we cannot live without each other, that no one lives alone in an isolated world. As a result, these fine works of men have increased, and the help of neighbors, friends among themselves, has increased. This is a positive matter that I strongly hope that, even when this crisis is resolved, it will continue. To conclude, let me just say that we do not take all the Ombudsman's recommendations as some sort of arrow against the Government, against our ministry, but as a mirror and a reminder of how people see this situation in the country, how people see their situation, and how we really need to take this position into account and act accordingly in every further action we take in every law we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the motioner, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u82	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Hainz, Honourable Members and Members, and of course also representatives of the Government! I am speaking after almost five hours, which means that so much time has taken place today on this important subject, namely, the report of the Ombudsman last year, and there has been a very lively and obviously constructive debate. Initially, I had only 15 minutes, now I have a little more, and I will be able to fly through anything I may not have talked about in the introduction. So I forgot to thank the two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the SMC Party for their reception. For, in fact, after I sent the Ombudsman an annual report to all the parties in the National Assembly, I wrote that you can invite me and that I will also present the report in detail or speak with your Members and Members. So this option was given to me in two parties, thank you very much, I think it was an opportunity and you will certainly be able to take advantage of it by others. Since there are also two deputies all the time, I must say that they have been with me, because the space here is not enough, so the two have been monitoring all this from up there, from the balcony, where my deputy remains, because Deputy Tone Dolčič has gone to the education of the Project Advocate – the voice of the child taking place this afternoon – and I will join him later – and tomorrow, because we are educating in this important project as many as 80 advocates to make them better stand by the children and hear them in the many procedures that they are exposed to. I would like to thank you for all of your findings, for all of the things you have warned about today, because it seems important to me that each one of you touches on a topic that may be even closer to him, given what he has done before, as he sees in this national assembly, last but not least there are many new Members here today. So we don't care about the Ombudsman, as do those people out there, what you think you're accepting, and especially not what you're up to, and what you're going to do in the future, because we're recording, as it was said, a 20-year-old guardian. We could say it's small or it's big. For our country big and this year at 10 December, Human Rights Day, we will look back and see where we and the country and institutions have been successful and where we have not yet, I will say, succeeded, and we will continue to work with you and all the other services of this country. Of course, I can't get past the health, the health, the health of our people, who can't buy money, but they have to be accessible to everyone. With the Ombudsman, we have been particularly attentive to young people with disabilities. We even visited them in the home of older citizens of Bežigrad. It does not seem appropriate for these people to spend their youth, but disabledly, living in a home of older citizens, where they do not have enough staff. We understand the hardship, but we need to understand them. You have touched many — in the introduction to this subject I have not been able to devote myself to — borrowings, housing problems. It's really big. And when a man loses his roof over his head, he wonders what else I have left, because the roof means home. That's why I ask every mayor when I visit him what's going on with the housing units and how you save those who haven't been able to pay the only home they've ever had. The answers are different and I therefore hope that much more will be done in this area, including in the field of local self-government and the country. We're very interested in employment. Public works, too. We wonder why these are sometimes limited, but when some after 24 months still want to work so hard, and also there because they work, they feel the need for them. It is sometimes questionable for a lot of people who write to us, the effectiveness of inspection services, but we can also commend someone here, because they have improved because of our efforts. I visited the inspection board myself. I believe that the appropriate body controlling the inspections, which 25 of them are in Slovenia, which is responsible for responding to their roles, is to be kind and, above all, prompt and effective. We warn, of course, about the perpetrators, the bankruptcy managers and experts who have to do their work as soon as possible, because it is a matter of specific procedures when we need someone else to identify the infringements, to draw up an opinion that needs to contain an opinion. Especially with experts, when it comes to children, it seems to us that there is a great injustice and a violation of children’s rights if they have to go to experts more than once, for this can cause irreparable harm to them. We know what these visits represent if we are to be adults on this road. Forensics in Maribor – we haven't touched it, but we're giving it a lot of attention because we also get a lot of initiatives. Unfortunately, although this has also been a success for the Ombudsman’s efforts, we are already faced with overcrowding, there is not enough staff, that is, many problems. I have not talked about local self-government, but I think it is unacceptable that we still have public roads on private land in Slovenia. Of course, the Constitutional Court has given its own and given its own advantage and so is it, but it is not right that there are prisons, that many people have many complaints, and that when disputes with neighbors arise, they can close any road. The National Communities, a representative of the minority has called today, Mr Göncz. I must say that in January I was dealing with colleagues in Lendava, we also met with representatives of the minority, we will pay attention to all minorities in the event of any problems and also monitor the hostility that sometimes arises. That there should not be an obstacle, that people would not speak freely about it, but that they would be afraid. Surely, you have also reminded me of the problems of believers. In the case of the problem of public television, which we have encountered, I must say that the Deputy has also met with the Watcher's Ombudsman, who is responsive to this, but when it comes to private media, the Ombudsman has no right to mediate. Therefore, it is important that each of us well know what hatred is, what intolerance is, and what it means not to discriminate against everyone in this country. I am aware, and we have been writing to the Ombudsman about this for years that it is necessary to have quicker trials, that it is costly to pay all the compensations coming from the European Court of Human Rights. But when we asked ourselves, we found that it is possible to say good luck, for older cases that do not happen very quickly in this court, but when compensation comes and it has to be paid, it is cut into someone, written about it, and talked about it, and I hope that this is a good reminder for ongoing trials, which must be done not only faster, but also qualitatively, that there will be no annulments that will certainly cost a lot. You talked about the media, and so do we. We have also devoted many pages to this topic in the report. We used to deal with kids and the media. As you know, we've even had a special consultation, we've reached common ground, but what if sometimes we cancel here a lot? Thus, we who like to trust, that is, the public, the stories that touch families, violence and children, the media, because we believe that they are the only ones who can help, but surely we need to keep the warnings that the Ombudsman has accepted along with ZIP – the Centre for advocacy and also the press judgment that it is necessary to show extreme sensitivity when it comes to children who are not guilty of being involved in adult stories, and unfortunately to perform in the media. As you know, it's hard to leave this place unharmed, because your classmates see you, even though it's poverty, even though it's a disease or a need for surgery, but then you start feeling sorry for your classmates, which is certainly not right. I'm sure that parents sometimes take this path with an expression of powerlessness because there's nothing else. But let's stop it, make sure everything is taken care of, so that it will be as it should be, and that it will not remain the only way, so through the media. But surely the media are of great importance if they are aware that they come to Slovenia with stories, even though the names are covered and children and families appear to warn us. At that time, the Ombudsman also looks for answers, can look for them through his own initiatives, and can determine whether anything else can be done in this area. I'm sure we can talk, and for a long time, about the hate speech, but I'm sure you've understood well the pages on which we write about it, about our competence, about your commitment, about your responsibility. The responsibility of each of us is how he speaks, how he acts, how he is patient, even though we do not have the same opinions. I have read the thought that the spoken word may be your master, your unspoken slave, and at times it would be considered a word of slavery. The new reforms certainly bring a lot of problems for people, first of all by understanding the articles, because even 5 lawyers can have 4 opinions – and what should someone who does not have a legal education say? So when new reforms are coming, people need to know about it. Nor in the field of the environment do they believe anyone, nothing, nor do I research, especially if monitoring pays what the polluter himself pays. So, you have to get ready for this. When we talked about base stations and asked people why they were tearing them down, why they saw a great danger to their health, they said because everything that comes through the night is suspicious. So, in the sense of the Aarhus Convention, we should have talked about this much earlier. We really stress that other countries already have this solution, but that's where they started to raise awareness of people a lot earlier, so they've accepted something, and when you take something, you can't have any more strong arguments against it. There was also talk of domestic violence, the real report is only written, for this year, unfortunately I will not cheer you up to be much shorter, but I really hope that, at this time, we will only be collecting data for another month, then writing it for the first half of the year, a lot of negatives can turn into positives. Whether we will use one or another sign, but we will make it very clear whether someone has resolved violations of rights, or whether in the meantime you will be able to pass any law that will be useful to people, a sub-law, or whether the ministries will adapt to everything we write about. Therefore, the report may be longer due to commendation. You see, that would be extremely happy. As for the delays and the work of the courts, I must say that this is a responsibility at the Ministry of Justice – we warn, we will certainly meet with the Minister in a short time, because we have already held a meeting with the two ministers of this government. We gave you time, so a few months to prepare, now comes the time for meetings, active meetings and discussions. And when you ask me how to succeed, if you fail, that's what Mr Gantar said, only with recommendations, if this is too little, I don't think I'm going to use violence, but we're going to say it; it's also loud with names. You've given me a lot of ideas; when you come up with a name as the culprit in the media, maybe it's different. So we're going to warn ahead, maybe louder, maybe with different signs, like the megaphone on our cover, because we also have very different megaphones in our report; those that were first used and are smaller, and those that are unfortunately the largest, which we've warned many times, we haven't been heard. I also talked to Minister of the Interior Györkösovo, who visited us two days ago, along with the Director-General of the Slovenian Police. So we are never so good that we are not even better, and it is up to people to warn when and what is wrong and then we will react. If the time until the verdict is too long, we can react to judicial delays, then we have a lot of options to determine whether or not the accelerant is being used. The talk was because you were touched by stories, including stories about children with special needs, and about school in Ptuj, although I am occasionally extremely happy that I became very involved with this very school, which was no one to be proud of, but today I heard from a colleague that I thought construction was back on track. So it will be necessary to fight again, although the minister has promised money – I think they have also given it to the home congregation, the Municipality of Ptuj – but what if it is in this area and for this school of 16 other congregations. And how to unify people when we know that two more are hard to deal with, 16 more! We know the situation in Stara Gora. I visited her recently with my colleague Dolčič and the team. We made sure that it was extremely bad there. We are also aware of the Fat Rtice and the efforts of parents, so I have not mentioned in vain that it is a major problem to include adults with special needs after 26 years in the protective work centres. 500 waiting people aren't proud of us. However, I am pleased with the new numbers of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs. They even have a counter, and that's positive when you count how far behind it is. If this one falls soon, as promised, then people will be pleased, even though some with bitter tastes have waited too long. So the business of two fiancés. You asked me, it's hard to agree, because I at once realized that it was Saturday, when it was still a holiday, so on May 2nd, obviously next year, but the Keeper always points out good governance. How happy those two fiancées would be if someone managed so well to say so, I'd make an exception. But as we know, you can't do it on Saturdays, although it's been like this with Virant for a while, not to make IDs, and in some places during the weekend, you don't even bury your family. So there are some exceptions, but in the country you can make a different exception for any special event. There was also talk of psychic violence and the media. I know the story. We were also reminded of the editorial published this week on Tuesday. So it's actually about broadcasts that the guardian is about, and even though commercial television is not in charge, he talks a lot as an authority, like those who can talk about the need to look out for young people, at children who watch and monitor it, and if violence is too severe, it's worth all the attention, and I think that's how it's gonna be done. There has also been a talk about a self-sustaining advocate of the principle of equality, for which we have been working for a long time, and I hope that we can also slowly find a common language in the country for the institution of human rights. But I would like to conclude with one thought that I have chosen for you. This is the Ulpian River, which says, "Honestly live, not hurt another, to confess to everyone what belongs to him." Not just for you, but for all those who look at us, they listen to those who can read and act. And then we will be able to say that we will take a big step forward; then the recommendations can be slowly implemented and then we can be satisfied because the Ombudsman’s report will be full of praise or much shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate and turn to the debate on the amendments tabled to the proposal for a recommendation to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 20. 11th of 2014 I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for a new Chapter 2.4 of Justice. Anybody want a word? There are no reports. If no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate or it was not. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for a new Chapter 2.9 of Housing Affairs. Anybody want to talk? Not at all. Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party 2.12 Health care and health insurance. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments and the proposal for a recommendation will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2015. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the 2015 Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency, in agreement with the National Assembly. In this regard, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency should not be adopted. To explain the Committee's proposal, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its second meeting on 5. 11. 2014 considered the Agency’s work programme and financial plan for 2015 as its parent work body, which was 15 years old. 9. 2014 The Energy Agency forwarded Article 399(5) of the Energy Act to the National Assembly. The Director of the Agency, Mrs Irena Praček, gave an introductory explanation. She pointed out that the third package of European energy legislation introduced by the new Energy Act in Slovenia significantly increased the role of the Agency as a regulatory body. This is reflected in a significant increase in the tasks and responsibilities and in the substantially enhanced independence of the regulatory authority, which must act independently of market interests, while being independent in the use of funds and having sufficient human and financial resources to carry out its tasks. The Energy Act, as well as a number of European Union regulations that are directly transferable to our legal order, impose a number of additional tasks, responsibilities and obligations on the Agency. According to the Director, the Agency’s programme covers all the tasks to be performed by the Agency in 2015 under the Energy Law and the European Regulations. The Agency shall be entrusted with extensive new obligations in the preparation of general acts aimed at making the electricity and natural gas market more efficient and the transitional period for the adoption of most of these acts shall expire in 2015. The Agency's completely new tasks under the Energy Act include, in particular, ensuring security of supply of natural gas, regulating heat and other energy gases, certifying the investment plans of system operators, monitoring the legality of the work of energy operators, monitoring the energy market, certification of transmission system operators, competences in the field of efficient energy use, consumer care and increased international obligations at European Union level. The Director further highlighted the staffing plan and stressed that the Agency had been limited in employment so far, as its involvement in the government's staffing plan did not allow for additional employment despite the continuous increase in the statutory tasks and scope of work. In the last five years, the Agency has thus received three new jobs, making it unable to carry out all the tasks the scope of which has been extended even before the adoption of the new law, and with new obligations it will increase this problem without human resources reinforcements. As a result, 15 new jobs were foreseen by the Agency in the 2015 Human Resources Plan. The State Council supported the programme submitted by the Agency, including the proposed staffing reinforcement, in agreement with the National Assembly, as the proposed level of resources and personnel is appropriate and necessary, given the extent of the work and the responsibility of the Agency as a national energy market regulator. In the context of the debate on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the panellists made various substantive comments on the proposed programme, and the majority of the members of the Committee were given the view that a clear explanation should be given to the financial plan itself in terms of the planned new employment. The opinion was expressed that the Staff Plan should include an overview of the systematisation from which education and work performed by the new staff would be reflected. It was also pointed out that the financial plan was to be complemented by the business balance sheet of the past three years, allowing comparison of the proposed items for their implementation over the past period. It will therefore be possible to determine the expenditure incurred by the Agency over a period of three, four years, what it was intended for and how these expenditure is foreseen for the coming period. The management of the Agency was subsequently invited to complete the programme accordingly in accordance with the comments made and the concerns raised in the discussion. Following the discussion, the response voted on the next proposal for a decision, namely that the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the agreement on the work programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. The Committee has not adopted the proposal and proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on consent annexed to this report should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler to the Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Irene Praček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. I must be honest, given that we are for the first time with the new Energy Act, an institution where you accept the financial plan and work programme in the National Assembly, this is a new experience for us. I must say that I have also applied as the Energy Agency for the address, but the chairman of the Committee has actually said everything I wanted to say myself, and perhaps only, so I will be as short as has already been presented, of course, the Energy Act adopted by the National Assembly has imposed on the Agency through the legislation of the ten new areas previously listed. [[…]] All this has not been done by the Agency before, these are completely new tasks. And perhaps I would just introduce to you the weight of maybe us as energy regulators, who are actually responsible for the entire natural gas and electricity market, and now we will also be responsible for remote heat. Let me just give you some numbers. By getting a work programme, I think it is clear to all of us that in ten new areas, without additional employment, we will not be able to do so, because with existing staff we will not be able to do so. It is also true that we are not only committed to the Energy Law but also to the European Union regulations that are directly transferable to our legal order. Perhaps for a feeling, we would like to achieve the following objectives with the work programme adopted, of course, in order to be able to effectively decide on the level of investment in the electricity and gas sector, which is at the annual level of around EUR 200 million. The Slovenian economy will also be involved here. We also define the eligible costs for the Circus-Employing System Operators of Electricity and Natural Gas. 3,000 people, half a billion euros a year. Also on the basis of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we grant support for renewable resources, which now amount to 150 million a year, and thus meet the country's commitment to sustainable environmental policy. By doing so, I might like to stress the weight of this work that we are not just those who in some way adopt general acts, but we are deciding on large resources in energy itself. Given that we are working three-year periods, i.e. for three years we are setting up prices for electricity and natural gas, I am talking about infrastructure, regulated work, let's say every regulatory framework, this is a three-year period, for prices is about €1.6 billion. I speak without the heat of the remote, because we do not yet have the data, we have not even worked on it yet, so that we cannot say it yet, but there will certainly be a lot of resources to be decided here. Perhaps I would just like to point out to the end that we are financed by this work programme from the share of the electricity price, which would remain unchanged and at the level of 2009, while the share of natural gas should increase for the typical household gas customer would be this cost of seventy cents per year. That means our programme would put an extra burden on gas users for seventy cents. However, I must point out that certainly consumers have a lot of this regulation, because it is we who are operating in a monopoly market where there is no competition, so that electric operators cannot increase their prices. However, there is something else that we have so far regulated exclusively, so we have acted on these regulated monopolistic markets, and with the new law we have also been given powers of control over production. Thank you very much, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give my word to the representative of the Government to Mr Mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In this case, the government has only, say, a more technical comment. The work programme is no longer within the competence of the Government, but in this transitional period, which will end with the beginning of 2016, Article 548 provides that the Government shall give its consent or an appropriate decision on the share of the price which it will, of course, also issue at the stage of the adoption of the Agency's work programme. Just do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Mir Cerar Mag Group of the Party. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you, Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, we took note of the work programme and the Agency's 2015 financial plan and examined it carefully. The fact is that the third package of European energy legislation has encouraged the adoption of a new energy law, and we also understand that the role of the Agency as a regulator has significantly increased and that this has led to a completely new task which Mrs Irena Praček has also explained in detail on the Committee. So, under the new regime, it also gives consent to the financial plan to the National Assembly. At the presentation of the Director of the Agency for Energy, Mrs Irena Praček, we have received several answers to our questions raised in the context of the work programme and the financial plan, but we do not think that just a review of the table presented showing the 2014 balance sheet comparison in relation to 2015 is sufficient for a sufficiently credible assessment of the adequacy of the work programme, the financial plan and the appropriateness of the actions and investments in 2015. We believe that a more detailed review of spending on the items put in place would be necessary, which should also be accompanied by the balance sheet at least over the past three years, with appropriate indicators and explanations of growth in the 2015 plan itself. In addition, it would be useful to identify possible areas of savings, in particular in view of the planned additional employment. We understand that the Agency's number of tasks has increased, but we believe that the staffing plan has been presented quite cheaply, only as a representation of the structure across sectors where we have only information about the planned increase in the number of employees by 15, which is 35 per cent in terms of the current situation. In particular, the fact that many other items – such as overtime, then work performance items – did not fall to external service advisory items, nor did material costs – show growth or failure. We therefore propose that a more precise recruitment plan be submitted in terms of the precise systematisation of each job and the precise timetable. Above all, we want the Agency to examine carefully in the new version all energy costs and look for them and identify items where additional savings can be saved for additional jobs, as we are concerned that the forecasting of services, which we do not know whether the Government will confirm or not, will be possible. The financial plan could therefore be better prepared either by zeroing or by increasing costs for citizens as much as possible. For all these reasons, the Group of the Mir Cerar Party will not support the Agency's work programme and financial plan for 2015 at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new Energy Act, which is extremely extensive and imprecise, gives the regulator, the Energy Agency, great independence, which will be extremely difficult to control. While the Energy Agency has had to obtain the government's approval for its work programme and financial plan in recent years, the new energy law requires the consent of the National Assembly, which is a unique case in Slovenia. As an interesting thing to say below, no department has primate over the Energy Agency. But we do have it in the National Assembly. I'd say that's really interesting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not think it appropriate for Members to interfere in the professionally large and important energy field. In the field of energy, many segments are problematic. If I mention only one example – subsidising renewable energy sources, where we will strongly get into financial difficulties in the future, because the financial obligations under this heading are more than the investment in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium. But now we, Members, have jurisdiction. No ministry, no government, and we Members are now the ones that are supposed to be dealing with such a highly demanding subject as energy. For this reason, we have already tabled a proposal on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space to amend the Energy Act that it is a co-operator for the acts of the Energy Agency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not the National Assembly. Secondly, the Committee has also raised a dilemma regarding the Agency's own staffing plan for 2015 or whether a government staff plan is in place, which we know restricts the recruitment or increase in the number of jobs. On the other hand, the Energy Act imposes by increasing the Agency's competence a number of new tasks that require capable and highly qualified staff. The scope of the works also extends from the basic energy distribution work to heat distributors. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in accordance with the applicable Energy Act, the Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency, we will not oppose this because we are aware of the responsibilities and responsibilities that the Agency must carry out in 2015. However, we will continue to draw constructive and professional attention to mistakes and irregularities in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Director of the Agency, Honourable Representative of the Government, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! We have before us a vote on the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. This novelty, i.e. that the National Assembly gives its consent to this act of the Agency, has brought the latest amendment to the Energy Act, which provides that the Council of the Agency shall adopt by 30 September of the current year a programme of work and a financial plan of the Agency for the coming year, to which it shall give its consent to the National Assembly. So far, it has been the government that has been obliged to express its consent. The work programme itself and the financial plan shall cover the presentation and objectives of the Agency, the work programme, the staffing and financial plan and the level of compensation of system operators. Members, and not only us in the Desus Group, have faced the dilemma of how to act when deciding on the approval of the financial plan, since the material is extremely cheap with data on expected revenue and expenditure and without business information in previous years. In addition, the programme is based on the Agency's essential human resources strengthening and the expectation that we will confirm this without a precise description of the works or obligations that new staff are expected to perform. All of this is, to say the least, unserious. It would be very interesting to know whether, if the Government continued to be in charge of issuing this consent, it would actually confirm such an extremely flawed programme. If this has been confirmed automatically by the Government, then we estimate that it is right that we have changed the Energy Act so that the consent of the National Assembly is needed to confirm it. If this is the case, in the Desus Group, we rightly believe that it is necessary to provide for the mandatory issue of consent by the National Assembly for other acts as well. We suggest that we take this seriously. In view of the extremely high level of data from the programme, after a single debate on the working body, we decided not to give the proposed programme of consent. In order to facilitate the decision-making process, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, it would be imperative to explain more precisely the personnel plan in terms of the planned new employment. Such a plan should include an overview of the systemisation from which education and work performed by new employees should be reflected. With regard to the financial plan in the Desus Group, we expect this to be complemented by the balance sheets of the past three years, allowing the proposed items to be compared to their implementation in the past three years. Since we believe that the Agency must complete the report and the financial plan in line with the expectations expressed, we will not support the decision on agreement to the 2015 Work Programme and the Agency's Energy Financial Plan in the Desus Group. However, we expect the Agency's additions as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats Group will be presented by Mrs Andrej Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Director, Your Honor, the rest of you are present! With the new Energy Act, which entered into force in March this year, the National Assembly has also established, inter alia, greater autonomy for the work of the Energy Agency as the national energy regulator. Until then, it has been considered that the Authority is being supervised by the Government, which, according to the European Commission, would mean that the national regulator does not have sufficient financial and human resources autonomy. This should therefore mean, in particular, that the Agency cannot fully carry out its work, i.e. to the extent that the European Directives and Regulations and national legislation provide. Thus, it has also been established for us to have a fundamental control over the work of the Energy Agency carried out by the National Assembly, which means that it is also within our competence to confirm the work and financial plan of the Agency. In the Group of Social Democrats, we consider this to be a very important and responsible work of the National Assembly, so it is also right for Members and Members to pay due attention to this. In addition to this, it is worth noting that the new Energy Act provided for, in an important part, additional tasks or powers of the Energy Agency, while also carrying out certain tasks directly under European regulations. In view of that fact, the Agency is proposing to the National Assembly a plan for 2015, which also provides for 15 additional jobs, which, in the fact that there are currently 46 employees at the Agency, represents relatively high, large staffing support. There were several important issues raised by Members and Members at the meeting of the home working body concerning the sets of data on job systemisation, on work and on the desired education of new employees. Since the National Assembly has not dealt in such detail with the Agency's work in the past period, since it did not have such a supervisory role as it now has, it is understandable that Members and Members also want more information on the Agency's past business and business. Therefore, we ask and expect the Agency to provide all the information and clarifications requested as soon as possible and to complete the work programme and the financial plan for 2015 in the direction of the discussion on the parent body. We also expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define a new document in its opinion. We believe that such an opinion, which is non-binding in nature, cannot affect the autonomy of the Agency and therefore it would not be right for the Government to be fully exempt from the procedure for examining and adopting that document. On the basis of the above, we will vote in the Group of Social Democrats, as we will in the meeting of the parent working body, and we will not support the draft Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! A little bit of what we're talking about. There are a lot of new Members here, including me, this spy, one of the thicker laws, is the Energy Act. It was accepted, I think, at the end of January this year, it came into effect just before the May Day. In the sixth part, it very precisely defines the work of the national regulator of the Agency for Energy, Inspection and so on. Everyone here was talking about this other, financial work. We also agreed and told the committee that we would like to have a slightly longer sparring and a human resources plan. The fact is, however, that the scope of work is increasing for the national regulator, in line with the transposition of some guidelines and European legislation. Of course, from the point of view of the United Left, we are particularly interested in how the national regulator – which, by the way, houses in Maribor, which I am very pleased with in this centralised country – works. Why? I can start with TEŠ 6, I can continue over the next item of the agenda, when we talk a little bit about the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, but there can probably be none of us here who would not pay the steeple or electricity and when we look at those meters, we often get the feeling at the United Left that it is some creative poetry: some new supplements, benefits. [[…]] Unfortunately in Maribor I also know people who are without electricity in the second largest Slovenian city, which grieves me, but if I come back. It seems to me that we need a strong regulator because gas is a monopolistic situation. In fact, we have only one major supplier in the field of electricity for the oligopolistic situation, because there are several bidders and some lobbyists in the game. One is a joke, the other is a Sava power plant, the third is a nuclear lobby, the fourth in exhaustion is the Drava power plant and the Zasavje are kind of resting. We have a new addition to the Agency's work, which will deal with heat energy, where there will be somehow more actors, about 80, if I'm not mistaken. And as already in the presentation on the Committee, the lady who runs the Agency said, they are running out of actual time and people for that personal, inspection part, which seems to me to be of particular importance, why energy is so inviting. Because there's a lot of money flowing because we all need energy because the kleptocracy's rainbow coalition was created here before Miro Cerar borrowed that word. And as a result, of course, the United Left is inclined to make this regulator even more human resources-enhancing. As for what my colleague said about expertise – I hear very often: expertise. In the end, it is the political decisions of this body and some political decisions and guidelines of the Government, and I think that somehow the National Assembly should not avoid and push this aside. With regard to the vote itself, however, we will be abstaining with the United Left, we do not want to beat the Lady further, but of course we expect, as we said on the Home Committee, some additional clarifications, a supplement to this report, which I hope will somehow satisfy us through its informativeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the Honourable Director of the Energy Agency! The Energy Agency, as the national energy regulator in the energy market, is an important member of the energy law enforcement chain. It is a legal person who in his field performs the tasks of the new Energy Act independently and independently of market interests. It is therefore of great importance that the Agency, in its work programme and in its financial plan, present in detail the scope of the tasks envisaged, including the means envisaged for their implementation. The fact is that the Energy Act redefines the competence of the National Assembly and gives its consent to the Agency's work programme and financial plan, thus allowing Members instead of the Government or the competent ministry to assume a large part of the responsibility for the work of this Agency. In 2015, it will be really difficult for the Energy Agency, completely new tasks will require ensuring security of natural gas supply, regulating heat, other energy gases, certifying system operators’ investment plans and monitoring the legality of the work of energy operators and taking care of energy consumers. There are also more international obligations at European Union level, but we ask ourselves in the New Slovenia Group whether it is really necessary to employ as many as fifteen new workers in order to carry out these tasks, in addition to the current sixty-six employees? Of course, this is much easier for the Agency to do so now because it is no longer included in the government's staffing plan, which does not allow for additional employment. Although it is a body which must be politically and financially independent as regulator and therefore not financed from the State budget, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is Members who must give their consent to the work programme and the financial plan and thus take responsibility for the work of the Agency. It is therefore essential that we obtain all the necessary data and calculations in advance, including a display of the systematisation of the new jobs at which these fifteen new workers will be employed. The financial plan must also be based on analyses and comparisons carried out with the business balance sheets of previous years, as this is the only way we can responsibly confirm the proposed work programme, including the financial plan. In doing so, we stress the point made by the Christian Democrats in Article 399 of the Energy Act, paragraph 5, which requires the National Assembly to give its consent to the Agency's work programme and financial plan. However, as we cannot do otherwise at this time, we agree with the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that the National Assembly does not agree on the work programme and the Agency's financial plan. In view of the fact that we will not vote in favour of the Programme of Work and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy, as stated in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. This will be done after the submission of the supplementary programme and the financial plan, which will show the eligibility of additional employment in view of the increased volume of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary assemblies. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2015, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in the National Assembly. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Mr Lilliani Kozlovich for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. She's not here? Yeah, there you go. Mrs Kozlovich, please give a presentation of the Committee's views on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u102	Excuse me, Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer should perform, at least according to our agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u103	Good. Then I give the floor to Dr Ivan Kristan as a representative of the proposal for a bill to introduce views on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u104	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government! Allow me to say a few words about our proposal instead of the President of the Alliance of Retired Associations. In fact, it is impossible for me to undertake a mission, but I do not think that it would be correct for up to 5,000 signatories to take advantage of the business possibility that you, Members and Members of Parliament, should once again be able to convince us to maintain our proposal in the legislative process. This could only be so if you reject a report or a proposal from the home committee that our proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. This is a combined electoral system with two votes, summarized by a German model, which we have found to ensure the stability of the political system and that it has public support. The proposal represents a compromise between a proportionate and a majority electoral system because it combines the advantages of one system and another. The fact that each voter has two votes ensures the decisive impact of voters on the distribution of seats or the election of Members, which is in accordance with Article 80 of the Constitution. The decisive influence of the electorate on our proposal takes place on two occasions. By the first vote, the elector shall decide on his candidate as a person, irrespective of his party's nationality, and the second vote shall put the voter on the list of candidates and shall therefore decide on the party's composition of the National Assembly. That is exactly what some parties are afraid of. We propose to set up eleven constituencies instead of the current eight, with each electoral unit divided into four constituencies. The Electoral Units Act should therefore be amended. Our proposal eliminates one of the biggest weaknesses of the current electoral system, these are white foxes. We are dealing with unequal electoral rights because there are cases where the voter's voter's voice in one constituency weighs 50 times as much as in the other. In the last election, there are 21 election robberies, that's one-quarter, out of a Member. On our proposal, one Member would be elected directly in each constituency by the first vote, i.e. a total of 44 directly elected Members, and on the basis of the second vote, the terms of office would finally be distributed on the basis of the second vote of the electorate. The constitutional provision that Members are representatives of all the people is realized only by the fact that each constituency will have its own Member, not by the abolition of electoral thefts. The proposal for a law is already under second reading. The comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account by amendments tabled by the Desus Group. With regard to the decision of the German Constitutional Court, it should be noted that the number of Members is fixed in the Constitution, while the German system provides for the possibility of so-called extra-members. With regard to the comment of the Mir Cerar Group that it is necessary to take sufficient time for such an important law, i.e. not to justify the rejection of our bill, but, on the contrary, to speak in favour of keeping this law in force in the second reading, especially if the party is preparing, as it is said, a revision of the electoral system. The 7th National Assembly today decides for the first time on the fate of the draft law on the basis of a civil initiative. If this proposal is rejected without an argumented debate, it will not be the right path for further work in this area. The voters, who supported our proposal with 5,000 signatures, will express their disappointment in future elections. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In order to present my views on the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Renata Zatler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished motioner Dr. Ivan Kristan! The Government adopted its position on the proposal for a law at its 6th regular meeting on 22. This year's 10th. In the introduction, I would like to point out that the Government welcomes the citizens' initiative and the important objective or me of the bill to ensure, in accordance with Article 80 of the Constitution, the decisive impact of voters on the election of Members, while at the same time noting that the bill represents a significant change in the electoral system. The proposed amendments have a significant impact on the political system and, of course, other legislation, but these legislative changes in the so-called proposal package are not foreseen. This is a very difficult matter of law, which requires a lot of caution from all of us. In order to make such important decisions, further comparative and legal analyses should certainly be carried out and, in particular, a preliminary assessment of the effects or consequences of the law. In addition to the principle of introductory concerns, the Government in its opinion specifically highlights some problematic solutions, which have led to the decision not to support the bill, namely the proposal for a law entails greater changes in the division of Slovenia into constituencies and districts – proposal 11 instead of the current 8 constituencies. Such changes are urgently needed in a special law setting out the electoral units and the districts which should be dealt with in a package. As it is said, this law is not submitted, but we estimate that it is an important matter, for which we should certainly take a substantial amount of time. The proposed law on elections to the National Assembly without package regulation of this area is not actually feasible in practice. Here are some other shortcomings or proposed solutions that are somewhat problematic. This bill introduces two types of electoral threshold, which the Government considers to be contrary to Article 80 of the Constitution. It also raises the question of justification for the privilege of independent candidates in the validation of mandates. There are unclear and controversial provisions relating to the verification of membership in political parties. The following is also a questionable provision regarding the condition of permanent residence in the constituency in which he is running. We believe that these restrictions make sense in local elections. The Government considers that the individual articles of the proposed law are too vague, perhaps a little under-explanatory, particularly in the work relating to the allocation of mandates. As has already been pointed out in the introduction, the Government reiterates this support to the objective of the proposed law, namely to enable voters to have a decisive impact on the allocation of mandates, but we believe that this objective can also be achieved by changing the current electoral system towards the introduction of a mandatory preferential vote and that change would certainly have a positive impact on the practical application of Article 80 of the Constitution or the will of the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Master Branko Grims, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u108	A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! When the representatives of the signatories signed and the proper procedure finally opened up to Parliament, the moment of truth here was very quickly about what the new coalition was. Despite the fact that it was representatives of the pensioners and that even Desus had tabled amendments to eliminate all the ambiguities that the representative of the Government had pointed to at the end of the entire coalition, she had voted coldly against, which he had abstained from. Desus is worth it. Good morning, Slovenia, so we can know who's who! What exactly is this about? All those who are seriously involved in electoral systems, including on a scientific basis, agree, in fact, only on one point – this does not apply only to Slovenia, but to the whole world – that every electoral system in every environment is influenced by different natural, objective, subjective, if you want human values, according to cultural and other aspects of extradition. That's the whole point of this story. In Slovenia we have more than 20 years of experience in democracy with the proportional electoral system and we can only identify one and only one fact – the proportional electoral system is developmentally destructive for Slovenia. This gives us a farce that increases the abstinence of people in elections, has increased in the last and will continue to bet as much as you want – like Gorenjec I have not lost any bets yet. That is, why — because people simply do not believe that their voice decides anything else. In a cultural, media and other environment in which Slovenia is, the proportional electoral system acts as a pure farce of democracy, so voters recognize the LDS as a corrupt party and throw it out of Parliament and elect to Parliament Zares. And suddenly, the shocked find that they got with some other face back around the bend again the same hard core of Zares, which is corrupt and throw away Zares from Parliament. And they elect Positive Slovenia and suddenly find that after a short episode with the second government of the Prime Minister, someone who was with the LDS and Zares. In short, they got back around the curve one and the same. And then this year's elections, where the moment of truth is still not clear to everyone, but in fact they have got one and the same again, even those among you who may not even understand who you represent, will soon be faced with a real fact. It is always the same hard core of LDS, those who do not know how to live differently than on taxpayers' money, either way, and so this has been going on for years and Slovenia has been spinning upside down. This is all the truth about a proportional electoral system. The problem with changing the electoral system is that, as a rule, all Members and Members are naive to think that the same electoral system will once again be the easiest choice, which is a terrible mistake. Ask those of the People's Party who have allowed the current constitution entry, how many of them were elected in the next elections. And by the way, yesterday, one of Mr. Cerar's clients allowed himself to address us as being – what is it? - it's history. Gentlemen, it's not like that. You're history. The day the elections were held, you were already absed as a client, as it is called, and you will be replaced at the next election by another client, who will be once again a soap bubble to which people will fall, unless something essential changes. And a good, excellent proposal, a starting point for a debate has been brought to Parliament by people who, if you want, are from a completely different political field, such as SDS. However, it is a change that would make the electoral system much more transparent, and in particular steered voters away from looking only at ideology and – if you want – party presidents to look at specific people and vote for specific people, with names and surnames. A major change that would affect the multilayer. Then the relationship between the various institutions would change, and Parliament would only have the right force that democracy should have, which it is now losing from day to day. And this opportunity, if you take the proposed decision today, will be delayed. We will vote against it because we support human will.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u109	I inform you that Janez Ivan Janša, on the basis of points 2 and 3 of the Constitutional Court decision of 21. 11. It shall exercise the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly as of this day. I am therefore adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for one hour in order to prepare a conference voting system to enable it to participate in the next meeting. We'll continue the session at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u110	We're continuing our adjourned session. We remained in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly, to all of you a very nice greeting, especially Dr. Kristan! Let me begin by presenting the position of the Desus Group with a quotation from the Coalition Treaty, where, at the initiative of Desus, it is stated that we need to modify electoral and referendum legislation. It is written down, I quote: "Therefore, a draft electoral law will be added to the agenda of the National Assembly in 2014". This is a proposal from ZDUS. Since we in the Desus Group were aware of these commitments contained in the coalition agreement and because we are aware that the current electoral legislation is not optimal and that it needs to be updated, despite the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the unconstitutionality and serious shortcomings of the amendment proposal, we have tabled proposals for amendments that would eliminate at least technical irregularities in the bill. Here again, despite the amendments tabled and all the efforts made in the ZDUS under the Active Citizenship Programme, the law still contained non-constitutional articles. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that improvement of electoral and referendum legislation is possible, but only by broad consensus both within coalition parties and in civil society. Although the law is a good basis for discussion, which would allow people to have a greater impact on the election of individuals, at the same time we wonder if the proposal is not mentioned, in general, because it enjoys a lot of support among SDS Members, in fact the proximity to the majority system, which we know is not the most appropriate for a diverse Slovenian society. This claim will be illustrated by German practice, as the proposal for a new law is based on a German model. We are talking about a combined majority-proportional electoral system, as 44 members would be elected by majority system and 44 by proportional system, but in Germany it turns out that people also vote by majority vote strictly according to party preferences and do not choose between independent candidates. Neither an independent Member has been elected in Germany for more than 30 years, nor the third most powerful party. Even today, there are no independent Members in the German Parliament. All of this shows that people understand the combined system in practice as a majority. This would mean a great deviation from the system of proportional representation as we know it in Slovenia today. The firmness of the coalition is first for us, and it is not possible to collide here, because this country cannot and must not afford new early elections. Let me also mention that it has already been clear from the discussion by the applicants that they are aware of the shortcomings of the bill's proposal, that corrections are necessary and parallel legislation is being drawn up, and that they have sought to put an end to the treatment. However, in the Desus Group, we do not believe that the postponement of a decision on a negative decision will bring positive solutions. In view of all that has been said and of the fact that the Government is already preparing an integrated solution in the area of electoral legislation based on the analysis carried out, we will today support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u112	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u113	Dear President, the representatives of the signatories to the proposed amendment of the law and everyone else! The crisis in society is often the reason why issues related to the electoral system are being raised. The political situation in the country is certainly also a reflection of the electoral system. In particular, this reflection is reflected on the basis of the electoral result. This has a major impact on how state policy is being formulated. Above all, this is also a reflection of who is the Member and who is the Member of Parliament. To say that the electoral system has no effect on this would be unobjective, perhaps misleading. Often, when we talk about the political situation in society, old and new questions such as whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, whether voters and voters have a decisive voice, whether it is fair, whether it is appropriate time and so on. Social Democrats have answered these questions and are also known to the public. We believe that the current electoral system is constitutionally compatible and does not need to be amended for constitutional reasons. We are aware that there is no ideal electoral system; there are advantages and weaknesses both in the majority system and in the proportional system, and there are certainly weaknesses in the combined electoral system. The bill's proposal thus spells out the electoral system, summarized by the German model. The proponents are trying to convince us that this electoral system is the one that will be just and in which voters and voters will have a decisive voice. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The practice in Germany has shown that people with a majority vote strictly according to party preferences. Therefore, they do not choose between candidates which would reflect the meaning of such a vote. Assuming that this proposal is adopted by law, we ask ourselves in the Group of Social Democrats how to proceed. When are we going to have new electoral units and electoral districts? Will it be possible to reach consensus on electoral units and on electoral thefts? Respected and respected, we believe that experimenting with the electoral system cannot be afforded and is not responsible. We are justifiably afraid to stay in the middle of the road. Is the electoral system really the one responsible for the state of the country? We don't think so. That's what we're to blame for. We will support the decision of the home labour body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u114	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Dr. Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, proposers, colleagues, colleagues! Let's stop fooling around! There is no ideal electoral system, either a party or even a coalition, of course, looking at what is more upsetting to it. Every time I explain to my electoral system what the electoral system is, I say that it's mathematics thrown into a place where we have to find models that will get the most votes and not issue the idea of a party. Pika. That's the way it is. That's not hot water. It's that there are electoral systems. Certain parties in this National Assembly make it more clear what they would like, what the electoral system would answer them, which one would not. Some large customers would, of course, answer to the majority; the parties would answer proportionally; they are definitely the problem of the white fox. I would like to focus more on some procedurality that has taken place in this proposal. Why? As you know, in legislation we have the opportunity to have 5,000 citizens and citizens propose laws. This is something that happened on the committee, that, let's say, a party is first being amended, a fellow from Desus, and in some way helping the applicants, and then voting against or abstaining. Comrade Jurš will raise his hand, there on the committee he almost wanted with his colleague Gorenak, who is absent, steppes I mean, it is such a message which is, in a mild sense, unseemly. [[…]] This is a message that says: Dear citizens and citizens, because we love you. You can play a little game, you can even suggest something, in particular some or other gentlemen in the pension, full of knowledge – I don't mean mean anything here, sir, that you won't be offended – but we don't take you too seriously. I will not say that Friday's proposal is ideal, crazy to like, but already on the committee I have been trying, why not, what bothers me, even somehow went to the argument that it is not as ideal as it may seem to him, but it seems to me that such a way of blocking and then getting it today was probably already put forward yesterday – yes, it was tabled yesterday – the matter of calling for a public statement on the assessment of the situation and any changes to the election arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the Mir Cerar Party on the home committee, the president is Mrs Kozlovich – I will become afraid of you, Mrs Kozlovich. Apparently, at the SMC, they decided that you'd have to somehow take over all these dirty tricks. Because I'm running out of time to touch the electoral system again. In Maribor we have one of the three most recognizable products in sport currently in Slovenia – Football Club Maribor. Usually, you know, in football, you don't change the rules, but you make a good team. In view of this situation, I really don't like to be morally moralized – I'm not such a moral theological type, even though my great-grandmother said to me, "You go, Franjo, to the Lady of the Magnificent." It seems to me that we must take time and thought for such revolutionary changes. The United Left, of course, strongly opposes such an attitude towards civil society initiatives. I hope my colleague Jani won't jump in my back again if I say we're out of civil society – of course I'm a politician now. Not just now that I've decided to run, I've become a politician, but that doesn't mean I'm going to break up with civil society and pretend to be super smart, and I'm not going to let myself learn from civil society. I hope that there will be even more of such proposals and that we will be treated with greater respect to them, but of course we will vote against the withdrawal of this point by the United Left, this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u116	The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats has the floor. For her, Mr. Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u117	Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable President, the distinguished remaining present, especially our pensioners, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, thank you very much for preparing this proposal and putting it in the National Assembly as a legal basis for changing the electoral system. Unfortunately, at the end of the day, you were left alone by the party you last helped in the election to the National Assembly four months ago. You'll have to deal with this within the organization and so on. If I turn to the debate itself, Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia regulates elections and the composition of the National Assembly and in paragraph 5 of this Article it is stipulated that Members, except Members of the national communities, shall be elected in accordance with the principle of a proportional representation at the 4 % electoral threshold for entry into the National Assembly, stressing that the electorate shall have a decisive impact on the allocation of the candidates' mandates. Ladies and gentlemen, the current proportional electoral system of such a constitutionally guaranteed decisive influence of voters on which individual candidate will be elected does not allow. The current proportional system also has several weaknesses, which we have already warned about in Novi Slovenije in the past. Indeed, these weaknesses are also reflected in the weak stability of Slovenian political space, including in weak government coalitions. The proportional electoral system allows the election of several political parties, the formation of each government coalition requires the integration of several parties. These government coalitions are weak because of large and diverse parties, the distribution of votes under the d'Hondt system also does not ensure the entry into parliament of candidates who have received the highest percentage of votes in elections in a certain constituency, since entry into parliament is also dependent on the success of the list or the party in the entire electoral unit. And this electoral system is also unfair. In fact, in my own case, I have run for office in 2011, I have reached the highest number of votes in our party, and I have not been elected a member of the National Assembly, because my constituency has not been given a mandate. So we're also talking about unconstitutionality. A number of amendments to the electoral system have already been tabled in Parliament in the past, but so far no proposal has received the support of two thirds of the voters, as required by the quorum for the adoption or amendment of electoral legislation. The ZDUS proposal, however, is the best approximation of the consensus to reach consensus. On the one hand, on the other hand, we have a part of the National Assembly that requires or is closest to the majority electoral system, but on the other hand, we have a part that you insist on a proportional electoral system. And the combination, according to the combined electoral system, would be the best approximation of the final solution. So one of the attempts to amend electoral legislation is today the bill of amendments and the amendment of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, which I repeat, was also tabled with the support of 5,000 700 voters, citizens and citizens. The proposal therefore introduces a combined electoral system, i.e. a combination of a majority and proportional electoral system, each to elect half of the Members. The 44 Members are therefore elected by the majority electoral system and 44 by the proportional system, but the two Members are members of the national communities. This means that the electorate would give two votes in the elections; one vote for the MP who has a statutory multi-year domicility in the district, and the other vote for the MP after the proportional electoral system, i.e. the party itself. However, in this second vote, the electorate would have a greater impact on which person he would elect through a preferential vote for a particular party candidate. So I wouldn't vote for the list. I'd vote for a certain candidate on a list or a client. The proposed combined electoral system would require the abolition of electoral thefts within the current framework, but it is important to take into account the fact that the current division of Slovenia into electoral districts is inappropriate, since the existing electoral districts have a very different number of electorates and voters. In Novi Slovenija we supported the proposed amendments to the electoral legislation already on the working body and today, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected representatives of the ZDUS, and today we will also support your proposal. Indeed, in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that Slovenia for stable government coalitions, for a stable political space, urgently needs a change in the electoral system and the time is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u118	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u119	Good afternoon. The Alliance's position on this issue is more or less clear, and we have also expressed this when we have also tabled our proposal in the process, how we imagine and what our view is, what the electoral law in the National Assembly should look like. However, because we have before us essentially a law drawn up by the ZDUS or a group of citizens and citizens with 5,000 signatures, of course, we need to talk about this matter. The fact is that this proposal, which we have already seen in the State Council many years ago and in fact appears again with a few different corrections, whether it is an appropriate model for the Republic of Slovenia or not. I agree with those of my interlocutors who have debated in the direction that it depends on each country in particular what kind of model it really wants to have. It is also a fact that in the Slovenian space we have for 24 years a system that is slowly being implemented and a proportional system is certainly one of those which, if not otherwise, people have at least somehow accepted it as their own. But it is true that time has shown its own and that changes are needed. This proposal has actually had quite a bit of a debate on the committee, the working body of the mother, what is really open or where dilemmas arise. To shorten, the point is at least to us: that we have in fact two types of Members with such a model, one Member who could really be called off, and a Member who cannot be recalled – if one is elected by a proportional system and one by a majority system. One who will have to come through a four-percent bailout is said to be through the electoral threshold, and the other who really won't need it at all. This is certainly one of the reasons why we cannot support such a proposal. However, as regards the proposal to discuss and debate, it is more than clear that such a debate has already been held several times in the National Assembly, as well as in the State Council. Several consultations have already been made, and last time there was a consultation in the State Council 9. 4. 2013 and public presentation of opinions 5. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am sure that if this debate happens, we have nothing against this debate, that we will not get things wrong, that the same actors will come along, that the same issues will be raised, and that we will come to the same conclusions, and that we are really just making time. In Slovenia there are relatively few people who really deal with these issues professionally. There are some other people who are easy to deal with, I must say that they are interested, and of course all the political parties who, through these questions, also express some interest in how it should be continued. The main asset of the candidates is that such a change in the electoral law would actually achieve direct will and that independent so-called MPs could actually come to the National Assembly. No electoral system shall produce and produce independent Members, unless we allow them economic independence to have sufficient capital to appear in the elections, and this moment can only be political parties. Therefore, it is better if someone thinks in this direction — how to give everyone the opportunity to show up equivalent to political parties in elections. And we will support this proposal; because the decision is positive, we will be in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u120	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u121	All those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly! The law that was introduced, we have heard only the history of this law many times today, so that it would not be repeated here. The mother’s working body assessed that the law, as such, was inadequate, substantively incomplete and constitutionally controversial. This is a complex issue that needs to be addressed analytically, as the consequences will be long-term. The Legal and Legislative Service has made a number of comments: for the first time, it came from regulating constitutional matter and it therefore requires extensive analysis of what such a solution would mean. The German solution, which is somehow the basis of this proposal, is not yet in its proper function, because we have seen that the solutions are not correct and that they are also constitutionally disputed there, and the solution presented has not been analysed in detail. Key solutions are so poorly explained and electoral geometry unprocessed. Nomotechnically, the law is inconsistent with other legislation and would present a number of problems regarding thefts and the like. With regard to government comments, we have already heard what the Government has to say about the bill itself. It also notes that it is a constitutional matter that needs a broader social consensus, which has not been found on the parent’s working body at the moment. The estimated financial implications are also too large and incomplete. So they ask the government and other services whether the changes are really perfect enough right now to go into this change. The proposed solution is also non-transparent and does not address some constitutional issues already now. This is how the government supports the goal, as we have seen, but it says that the law is not yet complete, but it certainly supports the need to regulate the greater influence of the electorate. The Council of State also supported the idea of change and preferential voice, but notes that this requires a social consensus. In the debate that followed, we note that changes are necessary, that we need to work in a preferential voice, but we need a thorough analysis and we need to be aware that if we are transferring a system from another country, we need to first find out whether it works in this country and how the solution from another country would then work in our environment, which is completely different from the environment from which the law comes, and what systemic regulation is then necessary to organise this legislation in order for such legislation to work. From the above, the working body assessed that the law was not suitable for further consideration, as we confirmed in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u122	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, following the adjournment of item 5 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PARLAMENTAL CONTROL OF INFORMATION AND SECURITY SERVICES, CLOSED PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 4 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer. At its 4th urgent meeting, on 2 October 2014, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the home labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u123	Your Honor! The Desus Group will not support the bill. In our Group of Members, we believe that the amendments and additions to the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services should be taken into account thoroughly and after examining all relevant aspects. For the law is a legal act, and as such it must not be accepted, amended or supplemented solely because of a single case or even one person. Notwithstanding all the complications that have arisen and continue to arise with regard to the election of members, the Vice-President and the Chairman of the Security Intelligence Commission, when we have failed to set up this commission in four attempts and when the SDS Group continues to insist and still proposes to this committee a legal person convicted of imprisonment. Members and Members of the Desus Group at all meetings, when it was decided whether the convicted person and the person who was on the sentence of imprisonment could be a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission in the position that we could not and should not elect such a person. We are aware that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services is not just the ordinary working body of the National Assembly. It is a commission whose competence relates to the control and treatment of the most confidential and public data of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the legislation also provides for its composition to be determined by an absolute majority of Members, i.e. 46 votes are required to be elected. However, in spite of all the complications we have and still have with regard to the establishment of this commission, in our Group of Members, we believe that we must not change the law so quickly and recklessly, virtually because of one single case. The proposed amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services brings certain provisions already contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Commission and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to a legal level, which we do not think is necessary. This kind of duplication has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. In the Desus Group, we did not support the draft law on the home working body, because we want the matter to be thoroughly examined and that we are taking a holistic approach to the changes, not just because of individual cases. As has already been said, we do not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u124	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. For her, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u125	Dear colleagues! Dear President! We believe that the civil control of the security and intelligence services carried out by the Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is very important. In addition to examining the annual work programme and financial operations of the Intelligence Services, it shall supervise the activities of the Intelligence Service in relation to the compliance of the adopted national security policy, exercise control over the application by a judicial decision of certain control measures, exercise control over the designations and use of controlled measures which are not subject to judicial decision. Unfortunately, this monitoring is not carried out. That is why we all have a lot to worry about, because in these uncertain times that we are witnessing, it is necessary to ensure the control of events and, above all, the strategically crucial, economic and security issues of our country – to establish the right attitude on this issue. The discussion on the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services took place on the home working body. No majority decision has been taken and the proposed amendment to the law is therefore not necessary. The solutions proposed are also of such a nature that the current solutions set out in the Commission's Rules of Procedure for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services are now transposed into law. This is why we feel that we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u126	The text is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for which is Mr Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm sorry, but today all our views are represented by me. That's how they put it. I know you've had enough of me. For 20 years or so, almost a quarter of a century ago, we wanted state and statehood, although of course the United Left is always skeptical and on the lookout for repressive apparatus in the country, security and intelligence services are an integral part of the state and statehood. I didn't have time to count, here I looked at the views: Wednesday, November 19th, Evening, page 11, Professor Andrej Sotler of the Faculty of Security Sciences. We have so far been replaced, we have had 12 governments, we have 7 heads of government, we have had 1 prime minister, we have been 8 in short, and since 1990 we have replaced 13 directors in Owl or its predecessors. The person of the female sex, unfortunately, has not yet been. These youngest colleagues from the SDS have somehow walked well when we had a war between civil and military security and intelligence services in Slovenia – more than one pear could say if we could talk – and then we have a whole series of awkward things that are mildly unacceptable in Slovenia: a van is a bit lurking and a secret; then some hidden location of the deposit is threatened, and this is not funny – it is not funny – then what are the rises in Ljubljana, and then a person walks to Cankar's home and looks at the cell phone, and he sees that the van he goes through is from Owl because he sees a very good signal of the Owl network – wireless, maybe the Owl message: here we are, here we are, among you; then we have some kind of birth control – I didn't go to see a magnetogram. It seems to me that colleague Ala said that I was somehow compromised by the defolk for the commission that would oversee it. The United Left said that there is no problem in withdrawing me from this proposal, I hope that the SDS does not have any problem with having a gentleman who I hope that his voting device works well, withdraws from this proposal and that we will finally get this commission. It's not true there's no control. The Ombudsman this morning, I had a very hard time hearing this confession – why do we always have to use the male form if we have a lady who works hard, why don't we call her the Ombudsman? [[…]] The Ombudsman has the opportunity, as far as I know, to even unannounced come and see what they're doing there. Of course, with the United Left, we're not that naive. What are you gonna see? You're gonna see some cards that you don't really know why they're there, and some burning stuff, a bunch of papers that you won't have time to look at. Of course, we live in an information society, and this is also part of the fact that governments immediately change – my colleague Vinko would say a little paranoid – directors, because directors, of course, can also watch what Mr Miro is talking to and with whom he is talking, and someone else. That I won't be too long, that's not even the final vote, but the United Left hopes that when it takes power, there won't be a need to suspend the directors of both security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u128	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u129	We all agree in the National Assembly that we should have a commission and that we should have it within 30 days at the latest. It is true, though, that we have a very different picture of who can actually sit on this committee. When they imagine, on the one hand, that a convicted prisoner may sit on this committee and supervise his own predictive procedures, whether they are listening to him or not, most people in this National Assembly do not see this. Of course it's a problem. The problem is mainly because we are hiding behind artistic phrases such as'systematic regulation of legislation' and, above all, 'it is necessary to look at and regulate in a comprehensive manner as far as it is necessary to change the law'. In this law, there has even been a kind of paradox, and I will not forget the word on the committee of honourable fellow Member Dobovšek, who said that after a qualitative analysis and review of the law itself he found that the law was really good and that there was no need for any change. But we still don't have a commission, and it's been over thirty days. We have tabled the bill, the amendments, 3. 9. 2014, today we're 21. The 11th, the commission's gone. And there won't be any! And what is still a kind of paradox, today we have got the prisoner back to Parliament and the SDS has all the arguments now again to propose what he has been proposing all along. But there won't be a change of law. I must say that we are in a bit of a awkward situation, but this is the way that the majority, not the minority, not the opposition, so I suggest the coalition do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u130	The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, for her by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u131	All those who follow this debate, I will begin where my predecessor left off. [[…]] Of course, we have done a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the legislation and we have found that the law is good, it is only a handful of implementation of this legislation, which we find for the whole legislation, as many experts from international institutions have also pointed out. Since we are politicians here, all I think is that we need a political agreement on how this law, which is good, will be implemented into reality. I think it's enough for us to be able to make this move to do what's in front of us. I am not going to start now what the Law-Legal Service has said, what is not good about this proposal, because we have already mentioned it on the labour market. It is crucial that practice has shown good results and that there has been no negative experience in changing the law, so we have also been against the amendment mentioned above, and I expect that through political agreement we will implement this law in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u132	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u133	Respected to all once again a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. When we talk about secret services, you know, we are talking about human rights; that international human rights, human rights and social values and the Slovenian Constitution are valid and must apply to all, at any time, as is the constitutional order, which includes constitutional acts of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, which have a special status under the Slovenian Constitution. Those who do not take this into account, because of the international situation of the Republic of Slovenia, sooner or later they get some kind of educational slap. Even all those who have been unlawfully dismissed have taken the mandate of SDS President Janez Janša, you have received such a slap today. Unfortunately, because the President did not do so – obviously he did not succeed in this power – I will now do it, and between us I personally welcome Janez Janša, who has been reimbursed by the Constitutional Court. This, ladies and gentlemen, although the Constitutional Court has put up a velvet glove and has decided only on a provisional order, should give you a sense of what is actually the task of all of us here and of all of us in the executive branch of the government – to care for the welfare of the country. It is not the task of the rest of the political machinery to take care of the systematic and planned abuse of institutions and human rights violations against one party in the opposition, in particular its President. This is a purely unconstitutional act and a violation of human rights on its own. And the law we're talking about right now is an exact example of that. It was written according to all the principles of how the law is not written, ad persona, precisely because of one case and against someone. It was written on the wrong assumption. All the demagogies around the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services are – and I must say this publicly and I hope that the public will listen to me – completely attracted to my hair. For it is necessary to know that the law lays down, to whom and when it may be heard at all, according to our statutes; and this must be taken into account at the beginning. And secondly, if, I stress, anyone on the board who would go to control or exercise control could misuse the information obtained, the office itself has every opportunity under law not to allow that control. This is said to be the whole argument that we have been screwing around in the National Assembly for three or more months because of the political interest of the coalition, that it is constantly abuse and things show wrong, for the uneducated public, for the sole purpose of not coming to the establishment of a commission. In fact, there is a much greater likelihood that someone who has not already been convicted is under control than the one who is. For when is control exercised? Control by means of specific methods and means shall be taken into account where the person being supervised does not know or does not expect to do so, then this control is successful. Of course, you all know that, but the general public doesn't know that. Therefore, there is a much greater likelihood that the one who proposed it would be decomposed, namely, an attempt to change the law that we are sending into history today, rather than the one you are constantly attacking. You all know that. It is therefore only good for this law to be brought out of the agenda once, to be established by this Commission and to begin with the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services, in accordance with the positive legislation and constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and the democratic standards that apply throughout Europe. This is the essence that Slovenia needs and Slovenia needs development, ladies and gentlemen in the coalition, and all those who help them from the opposition: let us start dealing with people's prosperity once again, with the development of Slovenia, but not once again, I stress, with the systematic and planned abuse of institutions, as you do in the coalition, but someone else, to oppress one party in the opposition, because it is the only real control you are really afraid of. This is anti-democratic, and I hope that today's lesson you've received is clear enough, even though it was made with a velvet glove of a temporary order.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u134	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Tina Brecelj of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The CAP-M proposal contains only provisions which represent the transposition of the two directives of the European Union into the Slovenian internal legal order, which constitute minor changes and, in particular, amendments to the law, and is therefore proposed by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption in accordance with the urgent legislative procedure. The Directives which are definitively transposed into the Slovenian legal order by this proposal are: the Directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings. The law on criminal proceedings would have since its enforcement 1. 1.1995 has already been amended 12 times. Most of the changes were relatively systemic and extensive, but only some were small, technical. The proposal for a novel is also now being submitted. The Directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings further regulates the respect for special rights of defence in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings for suspects and accused persons who do not understand the Slovenian language. It lays down situations in which the interpretation or translation of judicial documents in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings in accordance with the right to defence must be ensured, after point (b) and (c) of the third paragraph of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which requires an effective defence standard. Since the Republic of Slovenia already has quite a guarantee criminal procedural legislation, in particular with regard to the use of language, with particular emphasis on the language of the national communities, a substantial part of the content of that directive is already contained in the CAP and the rest of the provisions of the directive is brought about by this proposal for a novelty. The proposed amended Article 8 of the CAP lays down, in accordance with the Directive, categories of persons who have the right to use their language in pre-trial and criminal proceedings. Rules on oral interpretation and obstacles to the content of written translation are laid down. The possibility of making objections is also regulated if interpretation or translation is not qualitative. The proposed arrangement, this is important, makes sense also for deaf and mute people who want to use their own language. In accordance with Article 74 of the CAP, the accused may, in detention and without supervision, communicate with the counsel and the proposed supplements reinforce the rules on communication between the accused and the counsel. The proposed amendment to paragraph 3 of Article 171 of the Criminal Procedure Act, however, partly complements the grounds for contesting a criminal judgment by appeal for substantial infringements of the criminal procedure. It is considered that the regime resulting from the provisions of that Directive is an important step forward in ensuring effective defence and judicial control as to whether defence rights have been respected. In this way, guarantees of fair trial are provided more effectively to persons who do not understand the Slovenian language. However, the Directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings provides for a minimum of legal instruction to be provided by Member States to ensure that suspects and accused persons or persons deprived of their liberty are informed, in accordance with national law, without delay and in substance, of their rights or, in most cases, in writing, of their rights. These areas are already fairly regulated in the CAP and minor corrections and additions are proposed in order to fully comply with the provisions of the Directive with the amendment proposal. In summary, in accordance with this Directive, Member States must ensure that suspects and accused persons are immediately informed of their fundamental rights in accordance with national law. The novelty, as I explained in the introduction, is indeed only for minor amendments to the law that do not interfere with the system of criminal proceedings, nor do they impose new powers on the competent authorities, so we propose that the amendment be adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u136	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report, I would like to give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The Justice Committee is 4. 11. At its 2nd meeting, he considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly is 24. Ten. At its 7th meeting, the Council decided that the length of the law should be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. The Commission of the National Council of State has examined and supported the proposal for a law. After the deadline of business, the SMC, Desus and SD groups tabled amendments to Article 2 and Annex 1 and the SDS Group to Articles 2 and 5 of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee held a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and the amendments tabled. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposers said that the main objective of the proposal was to harmonise the regulation of pre-trial and criminal proceedings with the provisions of the 2010 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20. Ten. 2010 on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22. 5. 2012 on the right to information in criminal proceedings. This is a complement to the regulation of the legal instruction of suspects and accused persons, the right to look into material, the need to appeal against police decisions on detention, and the right to translate and interpret in pre-trial and criminal proceedings. The proposal for a law does not bring major systemic changes to the criminal procedure regime, but only means that the provisions of the two directives of the European Union are transferred to the Slovenian legal order. The representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had made two minor comments on the proposal of the Law. This is a comment to Article 2, which points to a somewhat vague exception to the rule introduced with regard to the translation and interpretation of materials in criminal proceedings, and to Annex 1 with regard to the simplification of the designation of the competent court. It concluded that the amendments tabled to Article 2 and Annex 1 followed those comments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements. In a short discussion, members of the Committee pointed out that the proposal for a law should be dealt with much earlier, as the Republic of Slovenia is already late in implementing both directives. Some members of the Committee also expressed concern about the charging of costs in respect of the right to object to interpretation or the possibility of delaying proceedings under that provision. The representative of the applicant explained that the deadline for implementation had already expired in October 2013 and that the previous government had considered the bill in the course of ongoing business, as it contained only provisions which meant the implementation of the acquis of the European Union into the Slovenian internal legal order and proposed it in the legislative procedure of the previous National Assembly, which it had not addressed for the purposes of the elections and consequently the duration of the mandate. With regard to the costs of the right to object to interpretation, however, she said that the objection was dealt with in accordance with the reasonable application of Article 82(7) of the Act, since the objection was recorded in the minutes signed by the parties and was dealt with in the decision-making of the matter or later in the complaint as one of the grounds for appeal. Therefore, such an objection would not imply that the procedure for resolving the objection is terminated and extended. Members and members of the Committee adopted amendments from SMC, Desus, SD and SDS to Article 2 and Annex 1 but did not accept the amendment from the SDS Group to Article 5. In the light of the amendments adopted, the amended draft law is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u138	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, the Group of the Social Democrats has the word and the Magi for it. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. According to the Committee on Justice's report, this time I am also presenting the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the proposal for a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which we are considering today following an urgent procedure. The Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, must implement the directives in its internal legal order and the failure to comply with these obligations will cost the Republic of Slovenia. The non-implementation of directives means high penalties, including 500 000 euros, and are also counted as days, since every missed day of non-implementation is worth up to 20,000 euros. The last deadline negotiated for implementation is December 2014. It is therefore a 2010 directive which requires members of the European Union to regulate, in the national legal order, the right to interpret and translate in criminal proceedings for suspects and accused persons who do not understand the Slovenian language and for the 2012 Directive to also address the issue of the right to information in criminal proceedings. The competent ministry had prepared these solutions a year ago, but the prepared novelties were more extensive. Individual solutions were then criticized both by the profession and by the public concerned. The novel was being repaired and complemented, but there was no agreement, not even in the then coalition. We have also taken the past mandate very seriously, as the Social Democrats have pointed out by the Ministry about the urgency of implementing those Directives and reminders. At the end of March 2014, we proposed that the text of a law with support be inserted into the legislative procedure. Sadly, this did not come true, and it also slowed down. The former government had examined the draft law during the course of ongoing business and had proposed it to the National Assembly in the legislative procedure, but the National Assembly did not consider it for the purpose of the elections and consequently the duration of the mandate. In order to avoid the payment of high penalties for non-implementation of these two Directives, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, which has been aligned with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by the amendments adopted in the home labour body, will not be supported, but will not be supported by the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u140	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u141	Your Honor! Today's amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act means the implementation of two directives into our domestic legislation and relates to translation and interpretation in the forecasting and criminal proceedings. By transferring the solutions offered by both European directives, we are already quite late, in particular with the implementation of one directive for more than one year, the other for more than half a year. The European Commission has already initiated a process of warning to our country, we are facing a high fine of up to 500 000 euros, and additionally the daily additional fines of 20 000 euros for each day of delay may be fixed if we do not complete the implementation process immediately. This is the reason why amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act are dealt with in an emergency procedure, which is an exception to the rule that criminal law, material law and procedural law are generally dealt with in a regular procedure involving the general public. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we wonder why the government of Alenka Bratušek did not put the amendment of this law into parliamentary procedure in time. It did so just before its term of office expired in June this year, when an electoral campaign was launched ahead of this year's early state elections. At that time, it was clear that the procedure for adopting the amendment of this law would not be possible to complete. It is probably conditional on the attitude of the past government towards the European Union and its institutions, and the bill for such a relationship is still to be made available to taxpayers. Both professional and policy are united in the fact that the law now in force has become too extensive and opaque due to many amendments and additions, and not to follow modern procedural requirements and needs even from its origins. We need a whole new basis for procedural legislation in the criminal field. Christian Democrats are reminded of the necessary implementation of the transfer of the judicial investigation of the courts to the State Prosecutor's Office. This will not only bring about the burden of the courts, but also the elimination of unnecessary duplication of the implementation of the evidence in the trial itself: once in the investigation and twice in the main proceedings and consequently quicker and cheaper trials. The preparation of the new Criminal Procedure Act has been in preparation for at least two years, as assured by the former Minister of Justice. If we now listen to the current Minister of Justice, he promises the adoption of a new Law on Criminal Procedure only somewhere at the end of his term of office, i.e. after four years. We wonder why in Slovenia alone we need so much time to prepare and implement any major innovation. In doing so, let me remind you of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, while in other countries all changes can be prepared, adopted and, above all, implemented more quickly and effectively. This question will also have to be raised by the current Minister of Justice and, of course, to respond accordingly. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. As previously said, however, we expect a proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act to be put into the procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u142	The word is given by the Mir Cerar Party Group, for which Ksenija Rootjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u143	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, the CAP-M proposal, does not constitute major conceptual or systemic changes to the criminal procedure regime, but rather concerns the transposition of the Directive on the right to interpretation and translation into criminal proceedings and the Directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings into the Slovenian legal order. The regulation resulting from the provisions of those Directives constitutes an important step towards better protection of human rights in the field of fair trial, ensuring effective defence, ensuring effective control of whether defence rights have been respected and ensuring effective guarantees of fair trial for persons who do not understand the Slovenian language. Directives also provide minimum standards for information on the rights of suspects or accused persons. The reason for addressing the CAP-M proposal following an urgent procedure stems from the delay in implementation and, in particular, that Slovenia will not receive a financial penalty in the European Commission’s reminder procedure, which may represent a relatively high amount of up to EUR 500 000, and of course also the monetary daily amounts for each day of delay, which may also amount to EUR 20 000 for each day of delay in implementation, which could have difficult financial consequences. In doing so, we note, of course, that future efforts must be directed towards avoiding such delays. By implementing the CAP-M proposal, it follows the constitutional principles of legal guarantees in criminal proceedings and allows a suspect or accused person to exercise his rights at a high level. It also provides for more precise and even more guarantee arrangements in relation to translation and interpretation in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings. In view of the above, we will support the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, but not the amendment of the Social Democratic Party to that Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u144	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u145	President, thank you so much for your word. Just a little lesson for the predecessor. We're talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party. We accept amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure by emergency procedure in order to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the country. In fact, if this implementation does not take place by December 2014, Slovenia is at risk of being punished, and in addition to this penalty additional monetary amounts may be fixed for each day of delay separately – we have already heard about this today. The European Commission has already launched a practical procedure with a warning, which has been interrupted by the notification that the novel is already in preparation and will be dealt with as soon as possible by the National Assembly. In doing so, it cannot be overlooked that, with amendments and additions to the transposition of the content of the Directive on the right to interpretation and translation into criminal proceedings, Slovenia is already late in October 2013. This, however, is just another proof that much needs to be changed in the area of justice. Last but not least, by means of this change, we avoid again the means that taxpayers should settle because the legislator or the executive branch of power has failed to do so. In yesterday's debates, the coalition stressed that SDS should be constructive. In the SDS Group, by making proposals, regulations and amendments, we prove that we are constructive and that we want to improve the rules. Here I can point out that the rejection of our amendments on the committee shows a rejection of the coalition's attitude towards the opposition's proposal, which again proves who is constructive and who is not. In fact, on the Committee the amendments we have proposed have been a mere step towards improving the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and it is difficult to understand that you did not want to hear and respect this. Article 5 refers to the right to review the material for the purposes of preparing the detention-related action. The review of a particular material may be waived by a detention decision if the life or rights of another person could be seriously compromised or if the specific reasons for the defence or security of the State so require. We fully agree with that. However, it is a problematic part that says that the view is not possible if the review affects the course of the forecasting process or investigation. This provision, which is not clearly defined, is practically allowed to prevent just every view and we can already run into a violation of human rights, which we have already talked about a lot today. Article 5 also provides that, if the detention lasts less than 6 hours, the police officer who has been deprived of his liberty shall, at the latest upon cessation of the detention, issue an official note showing the different data, including the exact time of commencement and, if possible, the exact time of cessation of detention. The proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party that the official stamp should also record the exact time of the suspension, you also rejected without a specific explanation. By this refusal, you have rejected the fact that the person in custody cannot be determined for the entire duration of the period. So, on the one hand, we're talking about time up to six hours, and on the other hand, it's not even possible to define it. In fact, if there is no time to start and end the detained person, it is not possible to determine how long the person has been detained. We will not oppose the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but will certainly closely monitor the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act, especially in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u146	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners supports this short but not insignificant amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which implements the two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. With the transposition of both directives into our legal order, we will introduce only a few minor amendments or additions, since the law already contains most of the material that the Directives prescribe in the existing text. Thus, by adopting this amendment, the Criminal Procedure Act will be supplemented by rules of translation and interpretation in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings in general, and in particular with regard to confidential communication between the suspect and the accused, under the obligation of some new legal instruction to be received by the suspect or accused at various stages of the proceedings. By introducing a legal remedy, this is a complaint against a police detention of more than 6 hours, and the introduction of a police procedure to issue to a suspect, subject to detention of less than 6 hours, an official note which gives rise to the detention and rights of the detained person and with a cause of appeal concerning the use of the language in the proceedings. Given that the Republic of Slovenia is already in great delay with the transposition of both directives, I should like to remind or point out the following. It is true that the proposal for the same amendment of the law had an opportunity to address Parliament in the previous reference, but it is true that even when the State Assembly by the Ministry of Justice received a request or a request for urgent consideration of the novel, we were already in great delay. One directive should be implemented by the end of October 2013 and the deadline for the implementation of the other Directive expired in June this year. Since sanctions for delay may be relatively high monetary penalties, which is particularly worrying for our situation and the state's public finances and because the treatment of laws under urgent procedure is relatively often due to implementation, in the final moment, Members and Members of the Parliament of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement Party, we appeal to individual ministries and to the Government to act more carefully and accountablely in future in respect of the European acquis and in the implementation procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u148	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sure you've already met or reviewed the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is because we want to prevent unnecessary delay by adding to another article and, last but not least, by delaying costs, we believe that the amendment we have proposed is useful and certainly contributes to the fact that the procedures we have discussed today would not be delayed and dragged on forever somehow. Finally, with regard to interpretation or translation, an individual may reject the matter on the grounds that he did not understand the matter as he was supposed to. Your Honor, there is only one problem in this matter; how many times can a person refuse it or can it take forever — and the costs involved. Therefore, it seems to us that there is some need to justify this misunderstanding more specifically, certainly contributing to the improvement of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u150	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm going through the list. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I estimate that this amendment by the SDS Group is completely unnecessary and useless. The text of the amendment shall be so as to add a new sentence that the objection referred to in the preceding sentence must contain a justification for reasons and must not be given with a view to delaying the procedure and abusing the rights enjoyed by participants in the proceedings. All of this is already regulated in the CAP, Article 15 of the CAP stipulates that the court must endeavour to proceed without delay and to prevent any abuse of the rights enjoyed by the parties to the proceedings. So this part of your amendment is completely unnecessary because it is already laid down in Article 15 of the CAP. As regards the second part of the sentence, this means that the objection must be substantiated, including all that is already regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act – Article 76, to remind you, which provides that all proposals must be made, all the applications submitted by participants in criminal proceedings are comprehensible and include all that is necessary for the court to deal with them, but if they are not, the court also invites those participants to supplement them. That is also why I will vote against such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u152	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. I also believe that such an amendment is totally unnecessary and also inappropriate, because, as has already been said, the CAP in Article 15 already contains this, i.e. it is a general mandate, a provision on mandatory efforts by the criminal court to prevent the abuse of the rights of participants in the proceedings. There is also no need to make an explicit statement that the objection must be substantiated, as these objections as specific remedies under the CAP must already be justified and therefore always contain a statement of reasons. If there is no such indication, then the court may consider that the objection is unfounded or rejects or decides that it is not an objection. So I think he's completely unnecessary and unreasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u154	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot agree here, and that is why we have tabled the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a process of interpretation and translation, and it is a fact that an individual can repeatedly and repeatedly reject interpretation on the grounds that he is not satisfied with the procedure or that individual rights are violated. That's what I'm talking about! This Appendix to this Article certainly contributes to the non-abuse of this type. Today we have talked a lot about abuses in justice, we have talked a lot about slow procedures, about speeding things up. Why can such opposition to an amendment that can only speed things up in no way make them worse? But it's probably just a coalition-opposition relationship. Fine, but then say that the argument is primarily this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u156	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the second session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u157	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 19th periodic report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to new Chapter 2.4 – Justice. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Joint SDS for a new Chapter 2.9 – Housing matters. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Joint SDS for a new Chapter 2.12 – Health and health insurance. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Nineteenth Regular Report on the Work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. Explanation of the SDS Group's vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u158	Your Honor! We will be in the SDS Group, regardless of the fact that our amendments have all been rejected, which we regret, but we have unanimously supported the report. The area of human rights is an area where we should always reach and seek consensus. This is the area that is most sensitive in every country, since it determines whether this country is democratic only by title or is also democratic in fact, in fact by content, by action of concrete people. For this reason, it is symbolic that today we are deciding on a report by the Ombudsman on the day when it turns out that unfortunately, in Slovenia, institutions are still being misused for political accounting, in particular in this case, the national constituency majority for the illegal withdrawal of the mandate of one of their fellow Members, which is the first and hopefully, after this lesson today by the Constitutional Court which you received, for the last time in history. The area of human rights is an area that not only determines whether this country is democratic but also tells how successful this country will be, because respect for human rights in the European Union is inseparably linked to the success of this country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to predict in advance that you will fail. Since, instead of worrying about people's well-being, you have begun to take care of your political benefit, in order to abuse another institution to account for a violation, a deliberate violation, you have been alerted to the constitutional judgment of the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights by violating human rights. This is something that should not be in any way a traveler to today’s decision. However, if this has already happened, it would be correct in the light of the words that you have even repeated the electoral campaign, on the basis of which you have received the trust of voters, ethics, responsibility, respect for the law and human rights, that you all give up and leave the place to those who actually respect human rights. Now you are starting your mandate with a stain that cannot be excused or altered with anything. It would be time to do everything possible not to continue this, which follows from your words at today's session, otherwise the next educational slap you will receive will come from the European Court of Human Rights. But that will no longer be in the velvet glove as a temporary order. She's gonna hurt. It'll hurt you. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u159	Explanation of the vote by Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u160	Your Honor! Also in the SMC Group, we will, of course, unanimously support the Ombudsman's report for 2013. We have detailed our arguments on why we will support this in the five-hour debate that took place today, in which some of you were present, and very many of you were not there, and I regret that you did not hear why we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u161	Any other explanation for the voice? If there is no more explanation for the vote, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the 19th Regular Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Work Programme and to the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as the national working body of the assembly, proposes not to adopt the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 52. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thanks again for saying that. In the SDS Group, we will oppose the proposed conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. On the contrary! The law, as proposed, could be an excellent starting point for us to prepare a change in the electoral system in the direction Slovenia needs for life. If anything has been shown during the period of Slovenia alone, in our circumstances the proportional electoral system is literally destructive, especially because everything concentrates solely on ideology, on individuals at the head of the parties, but does not pay sufficient attention to the content, the programme and those specific people elected to Parliament. The proposal of the electoral system, as was given by the people, supported by 5,000 700 signatures, which is very shameful, which with its left hand falls under the table, contained solutions that would allow at least half to be decided by an absolute majority of all, so that concrete people can be decided according to the programme, and that all the bad consequences that we have witnessed over the past years could no longer come to pass. Not only has the same political force come back to power four times, but there is something else; look at the current government, it has not yet started to work, but it has already fallen apart, the hostage of internal disputes is itself, and in Parliament you are dealing with how to abuse procedure and institutions and deliberately violate human rights, knowingly violate human rights, to deal with the opposition party that is the only one who is afraid of it. If it's not a shame, I don't know what it is. But even worse, it is something that permanently destroys Slovenia's development potential. Slovenia, however, has an extremely strong development potential, but in the current situation it simply cannot achieve it. For this reason, the electoral system should be changed in order for those elected to Parliament to effectively represent all parts and all constituents of the whole of Slovenia in an equal and equal manner and to be primarily responsible for their work. This would also change the relationship between the executive and legislative branches of power, as the greater legitimacy of elected Members and Members would, of course, also result in a different relationship and Parliament could actually function as it should. And something else; in the end, we would avoid what we are always witnessing in the current fragmented proportional electoral system: continuous shopping, continued internal blockade of any government and, of course, lost time after each election [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u163	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will vote against the conclusion that the law is inappropriate for further consideration because we want to continue the debate on the appropriateness of the electoral system. If anything, then I think that everyone in this room agrees that the current electoral system is inappropriate and that we are all dissatisfied with the current electoral system. We have multiple options, we have a chance for a majority electoral system that I think will never get the majority needed to implement. Then we have other options that have been discussed to break the electoral boundaries of the current electoral system, because some have voiced fear that this would mean that Members would only come from larger cities, not from the countryside and the outskirts of Slovenia. And the proposal that they have drawn up in the Union of Retired Associations and for which they have collected 5,000 signatures in some way combines two different electoral systems – a majority and proportional – which means that no end of Slovenia will be lost to a Member. If you look at the individual ends of Slovenia today, you will find that three or four Members come from one end and no Member from the other. So, with such a combined electoral system, we would ensure that every single piece of Slovenia would have its own representative, and at the same time the parties would have a certain influence on whom they want to bring to Parliament. I think that this is an interesting combination that works very well in Germany, so the German electoral system is such that people have two votes; one vote is given to the candidate they want to elect in some territory, and the other vote is given to the party. And if anything, then this combined system would also provide greater political stability, because in recent years it has been shown that this fragmentation of the Slovenian Parliament leads mainly to constant political crises and the collapse of governments. If we vote against such a decision today, we will at least ensure that this law goes forward and that the debate on the electoral system continues. It is not necessarily that the final form will be adopted exactly as it is now proposed, but if we vote against it, at least we give this law the opportunity to continue talking about it. But if you press the "yes" button today, then I think that the debate on amending the electoral law for this term will be over, which is bad. Once again, the New Slovenia Group will vote against the fact that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. We want the debate on the change of the electoral system to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u165	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have already given an explanation of why we will vote against it, and I will, of course, repeat it. I do not have the illusion that we will find an ideal electoral system to satisfy, say, 90% of the policy. Of course, everyone's trying to find an electoral system that will allow him the best way out. Personally, I can say that I do not like this proposal because it is a bit incomplete. I don't know how many other Members and Members are reading the decisions of the Constitutional Court, including separate opinions, I was doing it before I became a Member – maybe I'm a little weird about it. Most German – here, I am doomed. [[…]] Most of the Slovenian legal order is prescribed from German and is prescribed in half, it is prescribed trampoline and therefore I think that this debate should be continued. Certain colleagues today said that it would probably be necessary to reduce a little, as we say in the ugly English word outsourcing, that our laws are written by external advisors, who, of course, want to earn money with this and then it is nice to write a little broken laws. The second, more important thing, is that I've already mentioned it. We will vote against it because we are against making fun of civil society because we are making fun of such an approach. Not to repeat myself if we have any legal possibility that 5,000 citizens and citizens can propose laws and legislation and amendments, then we must help them in this house to process it qualitatively, but if not, you do not have a constitutional majority – with the United Left at this point definitely not, here we are a satellite in some other universe, if I paraphrase some colleagues – try to change it; change the legislation so that people will no longer be allowed to do so. We will vote against, of course, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u167	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u168	Your Honor! The coalition parliamentary groups agreed that so far a number of legislative proposals have been unsuccessfully addressed to date, which regulate the sieve of national and local elections. All of this, in fact, has proved to be a problem all the time with the various solutions that have been offered. At the same time, as in today’s case, these solutions proved to be flawed. The points were flawed in the substantive sense, whether they were flawed in the legal sense, or whether they were flawed in the sense that a broad public debate on these possible solutions and other arrangements was not carried out. For this reason, we have agreed that, first of all, the basic theme of the electoral system in our country must be to carry out the widest possible public debate and first to obtain opinions, views and answers on the following content: first to assess the existing electoral regime in our country, then to identify those problematic content and areas of existing regulation, then to identify the necessary changes within the existing regime and to fully identify solutions on the basis of all this. To this end, in the SMC Group, we have also proposed a call for a public presentation of opinions on the assessment of the situation and possible changes to the electoral regime in the Republic of Slovenia, where we have advocated that as wide a possible debate be held, inviting not only the political parties, but also the general public and individuals concerned, and that, through this debate, a comprehensive assessment be made and, out of this, comprehensive proposals for potential changes to the electoral regime in our country. To this end, the President of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government has already called a agenda with a proposal for a public presentation of opinions on this assessment of the situation and possible changes to the regime of elections in our country. This meeting will be held on Tuesday, 25. 11 o'clock. I hope that this initiative will be adopted and that this broad public debate can then be carried out as quickly as possible, ideally somewhere in early January. For all the reasons mentioned and at the same time with this initiative, the SMC Group will vote in favour of this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u169	Apparently, there's still an explanation for the voice in their own name. That's why I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. Okay, okay. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much, President. In the Alliance we will support this decision to end the process itself, because, as you know, we are convinced that this is not half-majority, half-proportionate, but is actually an approximation of the majority; in short, in the debate on the working body, it has been shown that there is really no support, because there are too many holes, too many open dilemmas and questions to answer. I am pleased that we will have another one of many presentations of different opinions. I will deliver to my colleague Simoni a CD from the last ten years, all the debates, and the same people will appear in the debate with the same comments and everything will be deja vu. But if this is necessary, we will get, as they say in the SMC very much like, quantitative and qualitative analyses and reviews of all possible situations, which we do not know yet and we do not know in this country, so that we can eventually get the same result. A consensus of two thirds will have to be sought first in the National Assembly. This needs to be looked for, because everything else is just time-consuming; and of course this time, if we are looking as you suggested, colleague, then I think you will not succeed in this mandate, because there is a majority on those sides, there is a little combination, here is an extremely existing situation, such as it is, with no changes and of course it does not mean two thirds. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u171	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you. I will vote in favour or against the proposed decision and in favour of the proposed law. Why? In order to preserve it more than a starting point for discussion. You know, we can talk today in one way or another, but when it was said that you needed an analysis of the existing system or an evaluation of the existing system, you already had it. You got it by participating in the last election. This participation is now only there about half, falling out of the election election and this trend will be guaranteed to continue, because people in the current system simply do not believe that they are still making a real decision. Whatever they do, they get about the same goulash back or something else they imagined. People once voted for Positive Slovenia because they saw in Jankovic the image of a successful economist, they got Alenka Bratušek. That's about how the proportional electoral system works. After that, of course, when the government of John Janša was already involved, it was thrown away by that filthy abuse of institutions. Another argument is to speak in favour of the proposal put forward by the electorate and the electorate to Parliament. In fact, what Slovenian entrepreneurship needs most – a stable system of legislation and administration; a fully stable political system for one whole mandate period. Such a system would undoubtedly have done so, while the current system is unstable and, worst of all, has the weakness that I spoke of before: any government is a regular hostage of its smaller members. That is why we do not even get to those urgent changes that Slovenian entrepreneurship needs for faster development and the well-being of the country so urgently. That is why this proposal is good and I will therefore vote against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u173	Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I'm calling, I hope, for the last time today. I am listening to this debate and I am sure that we will soon get the royalists in Slovenia who will say, "This is a madhouse, we need one enlightened absolut." I hope I won't run for him – I'll tell you in advance if they ask me very much, O.K., I may let myself be convinced, but my picture won't be mandatory anywhere. Good. If we are a little serious: this debate is spreading so much, I don't know if the electoral system is going to correlate most of the time, but what do I know about how the white landscape salad grows, even though this is also the problem of the electoral system so far, because the white landscape is this white fox that has me and Violeta and we're a little too low -- it's more, I'm a little less -- so that I can know what's going on. I will also vote against the issue of cowardice, so that I do not use any worse words from the pubic areas. This pulls back, then the SMC rushes us in. As a sociologist, dear colleague — you as a political scientist well know that all that you have listed — and in such a subject — we need time because otherwise we will really get what Jani said. Some on-calls, I apologize to someone, patients who will do the same again, and the ship will move on, and people will like us even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u175	I've seen that there are still interests to explain the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u176	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps, dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, most of you or we don't even know how it was elected in the national elections and I have examined the candidates on my own. Why am I looking at you? Because I got one case when one SMC candidate in Primorska got more votes than one voter in another. And someone from another election unit was elected and they should be sitting here today instead of the one from Primorska. Does that seem fair to you? For this reason, I say that the current system is also unfair. And before you press the 'yes' button, first ask yourself how unfair and at the same time unstoppable the current electoral system is. The existing electoral system is one of the cancers of our democracy. The result of this electoral system is unstable government coalitions, and we have witnessed this in recent mandates. The proposal proposed by the Slovenian Retirement Association is the best approximation of this or the greatest possible consensus to choose a combined system is said between the proportional electoral system and the majority electoral system, and we actually allow people to have the opportunity to influence who their representatives will be in the National Assembly. So I advise you, press "against" not because of yourself, but because of the people who deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u177	Explanation of the vote, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you, President, for your word. I will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, because I am sure that in the course of the consideration of this compromise proposal, which came from the Union of Retired Slovenians, could still somehow be finalized, would indeed be a compromise that would be acceptable to all. Be assured that we will never find an ideal system or a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, which would please everyone. One will always have problems with constituencies, with electoral units, with women's quotas, with the electoral threshold, how many votes an individual voter can have, who can be independent Members, or who we need, and so on. The fact is: a proportional electoral system – we have weak governments, a majority electoral system – hard governments. I'm a little embarrassed, I'm coming from the FDV, because I'm not bragging about this, but one of the rare things that I was interested in during the course of my studies was the electoral systems, and I have to say that the proposal by the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia is something, I won't say the German model that we're following elsewhere, obviously only in the electoral system, and I like it very much, although I don't agree 100% with all the solutions they've brought, but it's a much better solution than the current model. It seems absurd to me that you draw the reasons why marriage is not appropriate from the veins, and even 100 public hearings will no longer help us find a better and more effective electoral system. But that you are against this, because the SDS is in favour, points to your permitting mantra, which is completely reversed by that pre-election mantra of cooperation. In short, unlike Desus, who will issue his electoral body, I will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u179	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much, President. Election systems are subject to the rule that they are very difficult and very rarely changed, simply because those who have been elected by system are difficult to vote on to change this system. If, for example, the Party of Mira Cerar, or Desus, before the elections, has been shouting about how to change the electoral system, today the leader of the parliamentary group, Kustec Lipicer, is interpreting some rules on the writing of seminars, how the electoral system needs to be changed properly. Among other things, she said that there should be a broad public debate, which is the result of new faces that do not monitor politics, but as a deus ex machine come into this hall and have the feeling that history has begun to count since then, and said that an assessment of existing regulation should be made. To help you – in some debate your president said in January this year: "I am sure that the current system in Slovenia needs changes." The assessment of the main moral ethics in this country has therefore already been made and you are voting here today, so that you will not have to change the electoral system. As colleague Möderndorfer said, the moment you begin to expand the base of the debate on why you do not change the electoral system, you will draw the matter so long that things will not change. The human will, it was expressed, the SDS was as cooperative as possible in this, we support the debate on the continuation of this bill, but the government majority, that is to say those who have the key in their hands, would rather deny the people's will. You swallow the words one by one, with every decision, expressly fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u181	The explanation for the vote is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u182	The argument that you object to this law, which you declare that the law is not assigned, that it has shortcomings, that there has been no public debate, that is, if you are honest, a bad argument. Because even if this law goes forward today, all these shortcomings can be resolved, because this does not mean that we will adopt the law definitively today, but that we will allow it to continue and that we can fix it in the process itself and upgrade it. That is why, at least for me, this argument, as presented by the head of the SMC Group, is that the matter is incomplete and that there should still be a public debate, a poor argument. It would seem fairer to me simply to say: "We do not support these changes because we are more satisfied with the current regime or we feel that the current regime of the electoral system is better." This would be such an open policy, because everything else — however, the results are well known. The debate or public presentation on the electoral system has been a lot, and we know roughly how individual political parties view the electoral system itself, if we want to change this electoral system in any way, then I think that this combination of a majority and proportional electoral system is the only one that might get a two-thirds majority. For this reason, I ask all SMC Members to reconsider, if it is not worth letting this law go forward and continue to be discussed and awarded. A much better argument is this than the one you presented earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u183	Explanation of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll vote against it. I will vote against it because the will of the electorate and the electorate will be played again or again. In fact, if this were to be taken into account, last but not least, this law would probably not be discussed today, as a two-way electoral system would be established, but colleagues and colleagues in previous mandates have, of course, trampled and played a referendum decision. Today, in some ways, the story repeats itself in a slightly smaller way. Last but not least, those who took pictures together on posters, of course Desus and representatives of the ZDUS, today they propose the law, of course you reject it, and your justification was as follows: you must follow the coalition. I believed you were following your electoral base, your constituents, but apparently the coalition is more important to you. In this regard, I would like to point out something else by the SMC representative, who discussed how a broad debate is needed. If this debate were really important to you, then we would have been in the Chamber when the position of the parental committee had to be given. But you weren't there, and there wasn't that attitude today. So much for your ethics, your morals and your relationship to marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u185	I no longer see any interest in explanations of vote, so we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Electoral Law in the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 21. 11. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 49. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia and the related service of the Russian Federation for the supervision of trade in illicit drugs, psychotrophic substances and their predecessors. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it is on the confirmation of the official revised text of the law on student food subsidies. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: Officially revised texts of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation are confirmed. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the said law has been officially clarified by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. It's a day's work. It's on mental-voluntary matters. We will first consider the notice of the Court of Justice on the judicial judgment of the District Judge of the Council at the District Court in Celje The Council of Justice is based on another. Article 77, paragraph 77, of the Judicial Service Act, forwarded to the National Assembly the judgment of the District Court in Ljubljana of the number XK 4980/2011 of 23. 12. 2013 and the judgment of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana number II KP 4980/2011 of 22. 9. 2013 in a criminal case against convicted Milk Škobernet, District Judge of the Council at the District Court in Celje. The Commission considered the notifications at its second meeting on 13 November 2013 and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which Milko Škoberne will be relieved of his judicial functions. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no reported debates. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Tadeja Pushnar a member of the State Audit Commission. The mandate starts at 25. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. This is the last time I promise. We're a stranger, and today I'm the one who's working. I thought my buddy Tanka was gonna say something. Do you even know what we're voting on? You know? Do you have any idea how much the decomposition is going to cost? How much? When I explained to a colleague here, he said that their former client colleague didn't tell him if I knew. I know because I was working at the Space Sociology Center, and we were looking for a landfill. NSRAO – we named that shortcut slightly pejoratiously for lower and medium-sized radioactive waste. Currently, this is supposed to cost a billion and a half - complete decomposition - half of Croats, half of me. The entire construction and operation of a lower and medium-sized radioactive waste warehouse would cost slightly less than 400 million. If you are reading a little media, Croatia is not exactly excited about these amounts. She says she'll do her job. It seems to me that the Commission has not met bilaterally over the last four years on this subject. Do you know how many people are employed in this fund? Five! You have a director, and a few experts have a broker who's actually turning this money around for decommissioning. In short, even that basic rule of the four eyes we don't have here when I heard it on the board, I almost fell on the floor, on the finances. The former director of this fund is having problems in court because they wanted to mix things up with some of the shares of the State Department – according to the local word. When you look at me, I see that at least SMC is not exactly familiar with this, right now this fund has slightly less than 190 million, 187 seems to me that the profitability is supposed to be there from 5 to 7 percent, not going into risky things. I didn't propose an amendment, but at least two brokers would have had a little surveillance. Otherwise, the Supervisory Board is supposed to oversee or sign all the operations that go beyond EUR 50,000, and I am really interested in how this is done in practice if, as I know a little bit about it as a layman, I would say that we are limiting it to a quarter of a million. It's just a little information someone needs to tell you. That's why I stopped by today. Thank you, we will abstain in this, but you will vote, although obviously most of you do not know the background and what you will vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u187	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Management Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for President is called Gorazd Skubin and Dr. Roman Jordan and Darko Ličen are appointed as a member. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] No one. I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much. There was a rather lively debate on the appointment of a member of this Commission for one simple reason on the part that the question was raised if the Member, when appointed to this committee, was raised in any conflict of interest with the functioning of this Commission. At the initiative of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the Legislative and Legal Service was called upon to draw up its opinion, which, in its concluding part, left this issue open in some way. Allow me to quote two main points from this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, saying: "In such border cases, it is necessary to consider whether a Member, as a representative of the legislative branch of the Authority, can perform any other function objectively in a way that, within each function or activity, it can only pursue the interests of the authority in which it performs its function, or whether it weighs the interests of the other body in which it is engaged and vice versa." And in the conclusion, if we sum up, "the answer to the question whether the function of a Member is incompatible with the function of a member of the Commission depends on the assessment in a particular individual case". Which means that the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission will be that legal basis, or some legal practice that will determine the functioning of this coalition or of this national assembly. The decision to appoint a party-proposed person, i.e. a Member, in some way creates the narrow functioning of this moral-ethic commission or of the moral-ethic coalition and in some way creates legal practice for all decisions ahead; in other words, the coalition has decided that there is no problem if a member sits in any other councils, if he is a member of the coalition. In defence of this issue, the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission pointed out in particular that if there is another additional coalition representative sitting on this committee of 65 representatives, there are 22 representatives of the Government, it is entirely irrelevant if there is another additional coalition representative; that is, if there are 23 representatives instead of 22 of them. The debate was quite lively, so much so that even the first abstention by the Coalition Desus had taken place, but the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission acted in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, the vote had to be repeated. At that time, the party discipline had already done its part, and the members of Desus also supported the right decision; so that the government coalition now has 23 representatives on this committee. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that we must avoid any decision of a human rights nature in the National Assembly, which would raise suspicion of this or at least a hint of the fact that it was human resources, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u189	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and there are no so-called groups to be discussed, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Dragan Matić as a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, and the vote was 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly.
