ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs. Irena Tavčar, Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, mag. Katarina Hočevar by 3 p.m., Mrs Alenka Lampe, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Ficko and Mr Dragutin Mate. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of the Lottery of Slovenia. At its 11th extraordinary meeting, on 5 May 2014, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia be re-elected before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Bojan Kekc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Allow me to present in a brief summary the views of the Council of State towards this law. The Council of State notes that the Government, as the proposer of amendments and the addition of the law in its explanatory statement, states that the previous novel of 2012 has established a very complex and unclear procedure for the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of State considers that the 2012 amendment of the law has established a more transparent and democratic way of selecting members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Such a choice, as proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly, does not guarantee the balanced representation of national sports associations in the Foundation's world. The 2012 Novela has made it possible for national sports associations to become more independent. The changes brought by these novels certainly do not go in the direction of pluralisation in the field of sport, but in the direction of centralisation, which never brings good solutions. The Council of State notes that the position of sports officials in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is privileged by the changes, and this way the policy regains its monopoly in the allocation of the financing of the Sport Foundation. It is, however, forgotten about the financing of athletes to whom this institution is actually intended. The National Council also notes that, with the amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia of 2012, it has been established that the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia no longer has a director as an executive body, and administrative tasks for the foundation and financing of sports organisations. The amendment of the law aligns the management body of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia with the regulation applicable to the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which also applied to the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia before the novel in 2012. However, the Commission's report on anti-corruption was a key issue that led us to this opinion. The Commission is 28. Issued an opinion and warnings to this law. The comments referred to paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 6. I'll just give you a brief summary. Article 2 states that, in terms of preventing corruption and conflicts of interest and ensuring transparency of business and integrity, the Commission considers that the proposed solution, which accumulates the power and competences of decision-making in one association, in this case, to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, presents an objectively high risk. Although the applicant notes that it is a cross-border organisation of civil society in the field of sport, it has not in itself ensured that this will also adequately address the prevention and management of corruption risks. Article 3 also, when it comes to the incompatibility of members of the Foundation Council, notes that it reduces the standards achieved. In some ways, this was an important aspect in which the Council of State also decided. In 2010, when the previous law was in force, the Foundation also received a bad report from the Court of Auditors, and we believe that since 2012, when the previous law was established, this anomaly has been lifted, as there have been virtually no more comments since then. With regard to the Director, the Council of State also expressed its concern that in this situation, when we are in a financial crisis and practically every euro means a lot, re-appointed by the Director is not necessary, as all support can be provided by the Ministry of State, while in the Foundation itself there are athletes who, of course, are the most familiar in sports. I must also point out that in the debate itself, the Committee of the National Assembly has pointed out that the Council of State has changed its opinion. No, he didn't change it because he didn't consider it in plenary. It was, however, addressed by the competent Commission of the State Council and is therefore not in line with that claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 39th emergency session. 5. 2014 addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the Government at its 24th regular meeting. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law, stressing that the State Council did not support the law because of the alleged imbalance in the representation of national sports associations in the foundation's world, new ones, according to them, considered unnecessary amendments to the law on the composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation and the two negative opinions of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which were given to this proposal of the law. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport said, inter alia, that he rejected the findings of the State Council and recalled that the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport had supported it when adopting the bill. The Commission of the Council of State supported the draft law in a text which provided for a different arrangement in several places for the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia compared with the regulation of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, and the regulation was unified in the course of the consideration of the novel in the National Assembly, as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has repeatedly proposed. He explained that the existing different arrangements of the two foundations were completely inappropriate in their view and that it was urgently necessary to amend them, as they interfered in a transparent manner with the competences of management, management and control. At the time of their presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the State Council's statements in the request concerned questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation, which were of a substantive nature. Since the questions thus identified exceed the scope of their tasks, they have not been defined until those reasons and thus to the requirements of the Council of State. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee said that they did not see any new professional reasons against the law since its adoption at the meeting of the National Assembly. A number of comments were made to the interested public during the examination phase of the law, followed by the applicant. They considered that a new system law should be drawn up in the future, which would talk about both foundations and not about the transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, because it had in fact been recast for some time now, and at the moment the proposed law provided better solutions than the existing one, to which the Anti-Corruption Commission had also made more comments. They also pointed out the inappropriate exercise of two functions by one person, the transfer of employees without a public tender and the inappropriate distribution of funds provided by the law in force. Others said that the process of democratising Slovenian sport has been lagging behind for 20 years for the democratisation of Slovenia. They felt that the new law was only being adopted to replace members of the Council and that its changes were leading to elitism and politicisation. They also pointed out that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Unions is given very much competence and monopoly in the distribution of funds through the Foundation and that such composition of the world also offers opportunities for non-transparent and corrupt actions in the distribution of lottery money. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you, too. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Aljuš Pertinac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which you will decide on today, complements the existing legislation, which has proved to be inappropriate in practice, in three key points. The first point is to re-establish the Director as the managing body of the Sport Foundation. You know that this law, which you will be discussing today, also lays down the conditions for the operation of one other Foundation, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. This foundation has a director as its managing authority. This Foundation can therefore coordinate the competences of management, management and control. The Sports Foundation, which, by the way, distributes a lot of money every year, including over €10 million – if it does not have a management authority, cannot ensure that the powers of management, management and control are not transparently mixed. The second point, which is important and in which the proposal of the law, which you will decide again, significantly improves the existing legislation, is the removal of the constitutional dispute over the regulation of the incompatibility of the functions of the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation, which was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012. On the basis of the opinions put forward in the process of adopting the proposal for a law, it is proposed that a member of the Council, both the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as a member of the Board of Appeal of the two Foundations, should be excluded from all stages of the decision on co-financing of the organisation in which he or his family member is defined in the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, responsible person, manager, member of management or legal representative. Such arrangements have also been proposed by the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. Finally, the last important point in which the proposal for a law to be re-elected significantly improves the existing legislation is the depoliticisation of the proposed members of the Sports Foundation Council. On the basis of the current law, 14 of the 17 members of the Foundation's Council propose to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, established and appointed the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. The current law also provides for a very complex and unclear procedure for appointing members of the Sports Foundation Council in certain places. For there is a large number of partial elections between different entities, and certain of them, such as sports professionals, are not defined in any legal act at all. Last but not least, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Associations as a umbrella sport organization – was eliminated as a candidate for members of the Sport Foundation Council in 2012. Through its members, OKS – The Association of Sports Unions brings together more than 7,000 500 sports companies with more than 350 thousand members. As you know, the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, as well as the competent commission of the State Council twice agreed to the amendment. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would like to influence the decisions of the Council of the Sport Foundation, it has all the possibilities after the present law because, as I have already said, it can directly or directly affect the election of all members of the Council of the Sport Foundation. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not decided to change the members of the Sports Foundation Council, but has proposed a legal regime that significantly eliminates the possibility of policy influence on the decisions of the Foundation's Council, and the key role in the policy-making of the Sport Foundation – the essence of this policy – is the distribution of funds to Slovenian sport – gives the largest and widest supervisory organisation of Slovenian sport, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sport Unions. I ask you: who will take better care of the interests of sport, 350 thousand people who are actively engaged in sports in one way or another, or every time a government team? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will not support the amendment of the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia. In our opinion, the law is weak and will bring a lot of unnecessary confusion into the humanitarian and sports spaces, which will not bring any benefits to Slovenian sports and disabled and humanitarian organisations. But let me go back a little bit. In the framework of the previous coalition, part of which was also the Slovenian People's Party, we have adopted a law which, in our view, has established a more balanced, transparent and, lastly, a much more democratic way of choosing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, a foundation that decides on the allocation of funds for those sports organisations, athletes and coaches which have actually set up the Foundation. In addition, this amendment has changed the conditions regarding the incompatibility of the members of the Foundation’s Council. It was also decided to carry out administrative tasks for the Foundation by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. It was also decided that he would serve as chairman of the Foundation Council in an unprofessional manner. The proposed novel in the grave, however, brings back a situation such as the last amendment to this law in 2012. This re-establishes the system of appointment of members of the Sports Foundation Council in the way in which the largest number of members, 12 of which will be proposed directly by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions. Let me remind you that, following the last amendment of this Act, a regulation was in place whereby 14 members proposed to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport for the appointment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was proposed by the National Sports Association in the field of individual, collective sports, sports, neo-Olympic sports, municipal sports associations, athletes and sports coaches or experts. The proposed law, in part, follows a similar principle to that followed by the previous amendment of the law, so that the sports stakeholders mentioned above can propose members to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, but according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group there is too much room for manipulation in such a way. Before the entry into force of the previous novel, members of the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Unions could only decide on a package of candidates who had previously gone through the board of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. It was also not negligible that some sports associations in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia had the right to vote, but their voice was, if I say so in sports jargon, no points. This type of appointment, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, was neither transparent nor democratic, and did not, in the end, ensure the balanced representation of national sports associations in the Foundation's world. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to give athletes, who are one of our country's largest ambassadors, adequate conditions for their operation, as well as sufficient funding to perform on the world floor and also to encourage younger generations. For this reason, the way in which the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is primarily important to us. With such solutions, as proposed in this novel of the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, we once again take the form before content, which has never proved to be positive. Therefore, as it is said, we will not support the proposed novels in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party even if we re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! After examining the reasons why the State Council opposes the law, we still believe that the law is appropriate in our parliamentary group. It was essential for Members and Members of the DeSUS to consider and confirm the bill that the proposer in the legislative process had a hearing and followed the tendency to regulate the two foundations in a uniform manner, i.e. the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that it is only appropriate that, given the identical mission of the two Foundations, they are also functionally managed as uniformly as possible. The law has brought a harmonised arrangement for both the Foundation’s management in terms of professionalisation and unification of the salaries of both directors. The arrangements for the appointment of the Director and his term of office are also unique. The same is the way in which both rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation are adopted. The main criticism of this law by the State Council is that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is given great powers and monopoly in the distribution of lottery money through the foundation, which is said to be controlled by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia through the composition of the foundation's world. We also have concerns in this regard in our Group of Members. Elections of candidates for members of the Foundation's Council will be held in secret and on the basis of a special rule ensuring democratic and transparent procedure. That's why, as I said before, we think the marriage is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u12	Good day to you all! Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, representative of the Council of State, representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In its request for re-decision, the Council of State states that the new Law on Property Conversion of Slovenia of 2012 has established a more transparent and democratic way of selecting members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Such a way of choosing as the Government now proposes and adopted by the National Assembly, of course without the support of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, does not guarantee the balanced representation of national sports associations in the world of the Foundation. The 2012 Novela has made it possible for national sports associations to become more independent. In Novi Slovenije we welcomed the fact that in the Sport Foundation Council their representative could be proposed mainly by those organisations for which the Foundation was originally established. These are national sports associations, sports associations of municipalities, athletes, trainers and other professionals in sport. It was high time that a transparent system was also established in the area of sport financing, which would clearly define the rights and duties of the participants. The changes brought by the novels, which we will take a second decision today, certainly do not go in the direction of pluralisation in the field of sport, but in the direction of centralisation, which never brings good solutions. The Council of State notes that the position of sports officials in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia is privileged by the changes, and this way the policy regains its monopoly in the allocation of the financing of the Sport Foundation. It forgets, however, the financing of athletes to whom this institution is actually intended. The proposed novel would, in the opinion of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, once again take back the possibility of self-determination of the distribution of money, which is primarily intended for sport, and have a significant impact on only one of the stakeholders, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. In our view, this is a prestigious fight for influence, but it completely overshadows the real problem, and this is increasingly less money for sport in general. Members of the New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats of the draft law will not be supported even when re-decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In previous discussions on the Property Change Act of the Slovenian Lottery in this Chamber and also in the framework of the parental committee, the SDS Group made its views clear several times. We welcome the decision of the Council of State, which has taken a veto on a very reasoned basis on the proposal for amendments to the law and has pointed out some extremely important facts, has put forward a number of evidence testifying to unthinkable and unprofessional amendments, and has even drawn attention to misleading statements by the drafter of the law. In the SDS Group, we believe that these are unnecessary and, even more, measurablely harmful consequences of the law. The measures provided for in the amendment of the law would significantly enhance the management of the Sports Foundation, re-establishing circumstances that would lead to unclear responsibilities at the Foundation’s management level. In doing so, we reiterate, corruption risks and risks at the level of non-transparent action and potential conflicts of interest would be significantly increased. The amendment of the law reintroduces a centralistic method of appointing members of the Foundation's Council and brings together the proposed members of the Foundation's Council, their appointment, the receipt of funds and, at the same time, the control over the use of these funds. Such a model, which had been in force until 2012, and which the applicant would like to reintroduce, has already come across a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors and a very critical assessment by the Commission for the prevention of corruption. The argument that there is a complex procedure for appointing members of the Sport Foundation Council in the current regulation cannot in any way be the reason for the amendment of the law. It was performed without complications and in a democratic way, for the first time in history. In doing so, I must reiterate that this is also the way the Olympic Committees of Slovenia agree. In doing so, I would like to point out that we have recently taken note of a number of identified irregularities in the uneconomic, reckless and untransparent use of the Foundation's funds, including one of the drafters of the text of amendments to the law. At the same time, I must express my concern that this may even be an attempt to cover up the findings and attempt to abuse the Institute of the National Assembly to realize the individual aspirations of political domination in Slovenian sport and the realization of individual interests. We care about Slovenian sports, Slovenian athletes and athletes in the SDS Group. We reiterate with great concern that Slovenian sport has suffered profound consequences in the present crisis. The government, leaving with Minister Pikal at the helm, has further deepened the crisis in Slovenian sport. The country-level index of funding for sport for 2014 provided by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is, valued colleagues and colleagues, 47.3 with respect to last year, with the agreement of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. This means that the ministry has more than halved its funds for sport this year. Instead of dealing with problems in Slovenian sport and preparing a package of measures to support Slovenian sport, the Ministry offers us again a law that does not bring any material or other added value. We are of the opinion that the law is based on non-professional grounds, which has obviously harmful consequences, raises corruption risks and even gives unacceptable incentives to governance. Since we want to ensure the well-being of Slovenian sport, protect it, protect democratic interests, ensure transparent, ethical and non-political governance of the Sports Foundation, we will also oppose the adoption of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Alenka Bikar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and all the others present, welcome! We have already discussed extensively about the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije before the request of the State Council for Redecision. There has been a lot of debate both at the home work body and at the National Assembly, and I can therefore say on behalf of Positive Slovenia that we will not support the so-called veto. The reason is that there has been no new dilemma at this time, we have not seen any new arguments leading us to oppose the amendment of the law. Neither does the State Council's argument convince. Even more so, they argue that the 2012 law is more transparent and democratic, even though it has been strongly responded by the anti-corruption commission, and the Court of Auditors has also given its comments on the financing. In this context, let me return to the beginning of the consideration of the novel of the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. There were many different views and comments based on discussions with the civil sphere, associations of sports professionals actively involved in changing the content of the law. Most of the views and opinions of the then coalition parties were followed to the maximum extent possible by the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the process of democratic decision-making, and we believe that we have made the right decision. As a respected colleague Kavtičnik said on the Committee on Education, we cannot allow ourselves to allow politics to fall into the best, most resembling and best-organised sport organization because of any other aspects of the intervention, or to fall into the best, most resembling and best-organised sport organization, this is the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. It is an association of sports associations, where more than 7,000 500 sports associations operate, more than 350 thousand sportsmen and athletes and people working in the field of sport. It is therefore an organisation that already has a system of action and should only be affected by those who operate in this system. According to the assessment of Positive Slovenia, we must not allow political or other pressures to influence its organisation, the election of certain members and so on. I certainly would not hope to say that the amendment of the law is optimal, so in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia, we have proposed that the law providing for financing of sports and humanitarian organisations should be amended in a comprehensive way, since it is a system-wide regulation that should today be discussed on the systemic functioning of both foundations, but not on the so-called property transformation, since it is a lotteries that is long-formed and owned. In view of all the new legislation, which takes into account the findings of the Court of Auditors on illegality, unintended and non-transparent spending of funds, which allows for more transparent and independent work of the Foundation, which eliminates the inadequate regulation of the novel adopted in 2012, which takes into account the opinion of the profession and the public concerned, which, according to the committee of athletes whose members are representatives of various sports, allows athletes and sports actors to elect candidates for the Sport Foundation Council in the most open and democratic manner, including in this reading in the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we turn on the green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I do not know how many times, as Members, I have been given the opportunity to present the position of the Group on the Property Reform Act of Loteria Slovenije. I must say that some of the amendments went in a direction that really wanted to make the work of the Lottery of Slovenia more transparent, but in the meantime we also experienced a series of experiments, changes that concentrated and centralized the power of two functions in one person, and this actually happened with the amendment of the law in 2012. And this novel, which we are deciding today because of the veto requirement, has just eliminated the grave interventionism in the functioning of the Sports Foundation body, which was allowed by the 2012 novel. At that time, the Sports Organisation Foundation, together with its employees, transferred management to the Ministry, abolished the professional function of the Director, whose managerial role was assumed by the President of the Council, and effectively centralised the proposal for appointment of members in the Government's Sport Professional Council and excluded the Olympic Committees of Slovenia — Association of Sports Unions. And when we talk about giving greater role to athletes themselves, the novel that we are going to re-elect today gives us this opportunity, which CNVOS has also talked about and which comments are taken into account to the greatest extent possible in this novel. We do not deny the report of the Court of Auditors or the report of the Commission on the prevention of corruption in the Group of Social Democrats. However, it is necessary to know that in order to prevent corruption, the Commission stated at the end of its opinion: "At the same time, the Commission reiterates the gravity of the cases and the findings on corruption and other risks in the whole area governed by the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, and we propose once again that the ministries and their professional services responsible for the purpose for which the Foundation was established jointly examine and prepare a comprehensive overhaul of the legal arrangements of the Lottery of Slovenia and both foundations." And here's the root of the problem. If today's amendment to the law is rejected, then the situation under which the management of both foundations differs will be preserved. FIHO will keep professional leadership, the Sports Foundation won't have it. The performance of administrative functions will remain at the Directorate for Sport and will be financed from the State budget. All of this was then regulated in a way that was unacceptable, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also warned of this. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the reasons for the distinction are not clearly explained that it was not possible to establish compliance with the Constitution, that one foundation is regulated in one way, one is agreement, the other is opinion, one has professional, other non-professional leadership, and this was not justified. Similarly, the transition of employees from the Foundation to the Ministry was not properly regulated. And now you are convincing us that this is transparent and good. It's not good. The same as the misleading view that the State Council did not support this novel before the veto. The Commission supported it and the Council of State as a whole did not express its disagreement. The same as you forgot that last year Eurobasket, that the funds were allocated in a completely different way and that the Minister of Sport at the time was considering the failure of Eurobasket. Let the people decide who's up to the sport. We'll support the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Council of State requests us to re-decision on the amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, as the way in which the members proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly should not ensure the balanced representation of national sports associations within the Council of the Sport Foundation. The proposed postponement veto considers that Janševa's 2012 amendment is the one that establishes a more transparent and democratic way of selecting members and ensures the balanced representation of national sports associations in the foundation's world. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we cannot agree with those statements. In 2012, the adoption of the Janša Government Act contained poor solutions and risked corruption and conflicts of interest. The latter were pointed out by both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Commission. In addition, it was constitutionally challenged by the restriction of membership in the Foundation's world, as it did not clearly state the reasons for non-compatibility, which made it impossible to assess the compatibility of the proposed law at that time with the principle of proportionality, as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the delegation of all administrative tasks of the Foundation to the Ministry and the abolition of the directorship function of sport actually subordinated itself to politics, since it was possible for the Director of the Directorate for Sport to directly oversee the work of the professional council and the foundation council. This was totally contrary to the principles of the White Paper on Sports. The Law on the Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije, adopted on 28 April this year, takes into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, repeals the inadequate regulation which has deprived many companies of the right to manage public affairs since they are not now allowed to participate in the work of the Foundation, increases the independence of the Foundation's work, and by establishing or transferring the director's function to the Foundation, the impact of the policy is withdrawn, and could be listed. Otherwise, the law shall take into account the opinion of the profession and the public concerned. According to the Sports Commission, the law allows athletes and sports operators to elect candidates for the World Foundation in the most open and democratic manner. Both the Olympic Committees of Slovenia and the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia agree with the bill. And an explanation of the role and status of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Associations of Sports Associations and Elections, as foreseen in the adoption of the law. It is the largest organisation of the civil sport sphere in Slovenia and the umbrella sports organization in Slovenia, which is joined by a large majority of organised sports entities. In addition, 12 members of the Foundation's Council would be loved in secret elections and any member of the Olympic Committee could be nominated for membership in the Foundation's world. This is also the case in this case for the autonomy of the sport sphere and for a transparent and democratic way of selecting members of the Foundation Council. That is why we will once again support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The re-voting of the law will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on changes and additions to the Water Act in the framework of the restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andrei Jerina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, President, nice greeting! The new Water Act, which is before you, has one serious purpose, and this is to remove administrative obstacles that are a burden both on the authorities and on the parties to the proceedings, while still maintaining the same level of environmental protection and rights and compliance with European Union environmental legislation. The maximum loads relate mainly to the area of the allocation of water rights and water consents. It also presents the implementation of corrective measures from the Court of Auditors’ audit and audit report; it contributes significantly to the accelerated adoption of State spatial plans, while maintaining an important level of water protection. There is also a legal basis for transferring the power to collect payments for water rights and water reimbursement to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be collected in the same way as other environmental benefits, which means that we are further enhancing efficiency in this area. The novelty is adopted in a simplified way because it is a matter of changes within the existing system, which means that we are not introducing any new conceptual solutions. In the field of water use, about 20,000 water licences have been issued for all types of water use, which is a heavy burden for both water users and the authority to grant them. The maximum number of applications relates to water use which does not have a significant impact on the water status and the water regime. Thus, the novelty allows for the acquisition of entitlements to use water with a minor impact on a considerably simplified procedure, by electronic recording only. The number of applications for registration is estimated to decrease by about 400 per year. It is also a major burden to establish a limit for the acquisition of a water permit for specific use of water other than drinking water from drinking water supply systems. We expect about 100 water permits a year less. Major administrative delays are also detected in the field of water consensus. Indeed, these procedures will now be simplified in such a way that it will no longer be necessary to obtain project conditions. The decision will be made by the investor. If he asks you to win, of course, the authority will give them to him. Project conditions are issued annually in about 3 000 cases. We expect that this optional way will reduce the acquisition of project conditions by about 50%, that is to say a thousand 500 a year. The novel also simplifies the way in which measures to restrict and establish specific water use in the event of an emergency. In fact, it is possible to reach all those who need to act, and not only through administrative procedures, when emergency situations arise. A number of obstacles to planning and allowing interventions are also addressed, which are planned on the basis of rules on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the area, while maintaining an equal level of water protection. In fact, the planning and allocation of interventions in threatened areas that have not yet been established under the law – we are also talking about slippery, repulsive and erosion – except for areas threatened by floods and associated erosions on inland waters and at sea. In fact, this will then allow for the possibility of placing in the premises – once again, on the basis of the professional opinion of the institution which has the power of public authority and which is established to observe hydrological or erosion phenomena – on the basis of a transitional period, and it will prove that there are no other economically viable solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jakob Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for this Act, namely the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, at its 37th meeting, on 6 May. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The Legislative and Legal Service has also made specific comments on certain articles of the bill. Some of these were summarised in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and also adopted by the committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the proposal for a law. A representative of the Court of Auditors took part in the debate, stressing that in principle the Court of Auditors does not have reservations to the proposed amendments and the addition of the draft law, but points to the proposed provision of Article 2, which is Article 6, in which both the water refund and the right to water use will become public taxes. In this regard, the Court of Auditors points out that the payment of the right to use water does not have the characteristics of a public duty, since it is a charge for the natural goods which the user sells further. In view of this, there could be complications in the implementation of the law itself, as far as an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this part of the law would be concerned. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia presented the position of the Chamber, which, although there were no comments on the proposal for a law, pointed out that during the public debate on the proposal for a law, the Chamber had pointed out the necessity of resolving two substantive issues which were not included in the text of the proposed amendment. It is a question of farming on coastal land as well as the issue of farming in water protection areas. The Chamber also highlighted the question of the definition of the full economic price of water use and points out that further policy-making in this area will need to take into account the priority orientations for irrigation of agricultural areas. The Committee members unanimously supported the key objective pursued by the amendment of the law, namely to remove administrative obstacles in order to ensure a better regulatory and business environment and to increase competitiveness. However, they pointed out that the Government should prepare as soon as possible a new system law on water, which would regulate some other necessary simplification of procedures, the legal basis for compensation for the reduction of income for agricultural activities and the provision of replacement land in the event of land-farming. In the debate, a member of the Committee also highlighted the issue of the Water Fund and the inadvertent use of funds. He pointed out that Slovenia has recently faced warnings from both the Court of Auditors and the European Commission that unintended use of funds could even be regarded as unlawful State aid to energy undertakings or concessionaires on the bottom of the Sava. In order to ensure that funds flowing into the water fund are used primarily for the construction of flood infrastructure in these environments, where funds have also been collected, he proposed that the Committee adopt its amendment to the new 39a Article by which it would adopt Article 1. 1. 2015 expired the first paragraph of Article 11 of the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Save. With regard to that proposal for an amendment to the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the deletion of the proposed provisions of the Law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava by this proposal of the Law could lead to major financial consequences which could not even be foreseen at this time. In addition, there are serious legal reservations that some law changes or even deletes the provisions of another law. As a result of this explanation, a member of the Committee, as a motion for an amendment, also withdrew this proposal for an amendment to the Committee. After the discussion, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new Water Act, as it removes administrative obstacles that are a burden both on the authority issuing consents and water licences as well as on the parties in the procedures, while maintaining the same level of environmental protection and rights and compliance with European Union environmental legislation. The maximum loads relate mainly to the area of the allocation of water rights and water consents. In the field of water use, 19 000 700 water licences have been issued for all types of water use, which is a major administrative burden for both water users and the body. A great deal of stress is the establishment of a limit for the acquisition of a water permit for specific use of water other than drinking water from drinking water supply systems — about a hundred water permits per year less. The novel also simplifies the way in which measures to restrict and halt specific use of water in the event of emergency situations occur. The measures to restrict and halt the specific use of water shall enter into force as soon as the state of emergency has been declared in the area, as emergency situations need to be dealt with quickly and at the general level. The proposal also introduces the implementation of corrective measures from the Court of Auditors’ audit and audit report and contributes significantly to the accelerated adoption of State spatial plans, while maintaining the level of water protection. The post-revision report on the implementation of the Water Act required the implementation of an additional remedial measure, namely, that when water is used for the production of beverages taken from drinking water facilities and water supply facilities, the limit of 50,000 cubic metres is deleted, representing an unjustified distinction between the larger and the smaller quantities and thus the users of water. A legal basis has also been added to transfer the power to collect payments for water rights and water reimbursement to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Payments will be collected in the same way as other environmental claims. Finally, in the DeSUS Group, we would like to draw attention to the issue of the water fund and the inadvertent use of the funds of the fund. Slovenia has recently been faced with warnings from both the Court of Auditors and the European Commission that unintended use of funds could even be considered unlawful State aid to energy companies or concessionaires on the lower Sava. We therefore believe that an appropriate legal solution will have to be found in a short time to ensure that the funds flowing into the water fund are used primarily for the construction of anti-water infrastructure in those environments where the funds have also been collected, while at the same time they will not cause too much financial consequences to the plants on the lower Sava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u28	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Water Act offers some good proposals, and we believe that Christian Democrats can hide some traps. The proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, argues that the proposed amendments and additions to the Water Act are intended to remove administrative obstacles and burdens and to simplify the procedures for the issue of water consent and water rights, and the amendment of the Act proposes the implementation of corrective measures from the 2013 Court of Auditors' audit and audit report on the use of water for the production of beverages withdrawn from drinking water facilities and facilities. For all water use, about 20,000 water licences have been issued, with most applications referring to water use with a slight impact on the water status and the water regime. It is therefore proposed to simplify in terms of electronic recording of the specific use of water, reducing the number of applications for a water permit by about 400 per year. In view of the high loads detected in the field of water consensus, it is proposed to issue optional project conditions in the process of obtaining a construction permit, which, according to the applicant's assessment, would mean approximately half of the project conditions issued. Christian Democrats welcome any simplification of the procedures for the issue of water consent and water rights, as the area is truly out of line and waiting for these permits is hampering a wide range of investments. The proposed new regime, which provides for the recording of the specific use of water by means of a computer application, is intended to relieve users on the one hand and, on the other hand, authorities issuing water licences are likely to be well thought out, but in New Slovenia we fear that the new computer application will make someone well again, and the question is what will be the success. Experience so far has shown that the development or introduction of new computer applications has repeatedly caused incredible problems, particularly to the detriment of citizens. Let us only remember the introduction of new applications at the tax administration or at social work centres. Christian Democrats would have a better feeling about it if the ministry carefully presented plans on this and, above all, how they will limit operators to not being irritated again during development. In our opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has much to do to implement all the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in its 2013 audit report. We'll be very careful about that. Members of New Slovenia will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u30	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose this amendment of the law because it removes a long-standing administrative obstacle, simplifies the procedures for issuing water consent and water rights. This law also proposes the implementation of corrective measures in the 2013 Court of Auditors’ audit report on the use of drinking water taken from drinking water facilities and facilities. However, systematic changes to the Water Act and also to the Water Management Plan are needed. In this regard, it is recalled that appropriate legal grounds should also be provided for compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities and that replacement land should be provided in the case of farming on coastal land where fertilisation and the use of plant protection products is prohibited in a given zone. I should also point out that Slovenia is a very rich, very watery country, so that it should be a first priority, and we should also provide the means to ensure that we provide healthy drinking water to each of our households as soon as possible. However, since two thirds of Slovenia lies in a karst area where drinking water is practically non-existent, it is deep in the groundwater, it is particularly sensitive to groundwater pollution, as we know that all this water in the karst areas needs to be prepared for drinking water, and this is also a huge cost. Slovenia also promised the European Union that by 2017, it would have flushed all the waste water into the groundwater. We also have many projects that have already been prepared by congregations or several congregations together, which would provide largely healthy drinking water to the remaining households and improve drinking water where it has already been established, is already a public water supply. In addition, there are many Mediterranean projects where waste water treatment and sewerage facilities are located. I think it is the responsibility of the Government to provide those own resources and to make use of all the cohesion funds available in this financial perspective, while at the same time providing financial resources from the new financial perspective for all the remaining projects, and that these projects are somehow implemented phased out, those that will not be able to be completed in this financial perspective, to extend their implementation in the new financial perspective and also to add water to each household. We will not oppose this law. However, we warn the Government that much more needs to be done in this area than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Jože Velenja will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the Water Act, which we are considering today, is not about systemic changes in the concept of water management in the Republic of Slovenia, but it removes certain administrative obstacles that have been detected in practice. They have been identified mainly in two areas, i.e. the areas of water consent and the allocation of water rights. For this reason, the bill focuses on simplifying the water consent procedure, which provides for the abolition of the obligation to acquire project conditions for other interventions to the premises. So far, they had to be obtained by the investor for each operation before the water consent requirement was applied, resulting in great delays and unnecessary costs. Many simplifications also concern the allocation of water rights. The most important novelty is the recording of the specific use of water by means of a computer application, which means a significant unloading of both the administrative authority and the individual concerned. The current regime also provides for the issue of individual decisions in the event of an emergency, such as droughts, which require the restriction or cessation of the implementation of specific water use. In the event of an emergency, it is necessary to react quickly and at the general level. Thus, the amendment amends the way in which the restrictive measures and the cessation of the specific use of water are imposed so that the measure enters into force as soon as the state of emergency is declared in the area and there is no need to issue individual administrative acts. Procedures for the planning of authorised interventions, which are spatial arrangements of State importance in the area, are also being accelerated. In addition, planning and allowing interventions in threatened areas not yet established in accordance with the law is also regulated. In this way investments in the construction of public infrastructure can be significantly accelerated. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we believe that this is an expertly well-prepared proposal. This is why we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u34	Dearly beloved, good-bye to all present! The proposed amendment of the Water Act will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The legislative proposal that we are going to adopt today is a matter of minor changes that can help to remove administrative barriers in areas where changing procedures would make a significant contribution to reducing the administrative burden or administrative burden on stakeholders, that is to say the users of this law. The amendment also includes corrective measures from the Court’s audit and audit report, and the arrangements for the transfer of the powers to collect payments for water rights and water reimbursement to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are amended or amended. This introduces a uniform method of collection, as well as for other environmental benefits, since it is the most efficient system, as is shown in practice. As has already been said, in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposed law, because we do not see any traps, as they say, in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment of the Water Act removes administrative barriers that are burdensome to both the body and the parties in the proceedings, while maintaining the same level of environmental protection and rights and compliance with European Union environmental legislation. For the purpose of issuing a water consent, it is proposed that the obligation to acquire project conditions or conditions for other operations be lifted to the premises required by the investor for each operation prior to the submission of the water consent requirement. This has led to delays in the process of obtaining water consent in practice. Furthermore, a number of simplifications relate to the allocation of water rights. In practice, it has been shown that individual specific water uses have such a small impact on the flow, level or state of water that it is not considered appropriate for them to conduct administrative procedures and issue water licences, but only to be recorded in the water book. A faster allocation process will be possible for those water uses for which it is not considered appropriate to carry out administrative procedures with the allocation of water rights. The new regime allows for the recording of the specific use of water by means of a computer application, allowing easy and rapid eligibility. The novel also simplifies the way in which a restriction and a halt to the specific use of water is established. In the event of emergency situations, such as droughts that require limiting or halting the implementation of specific water use, there is no longer a need. However, a measure to limit and halt the specific use of water should be introduced as soon as the state of emergency is declared in the area, as emergency situations need to be addressed quickly and at the general level. Procedures for planning and assigning interventions of State importance to the premises are being accelerated. In addition, planning and allowing interventions in threatened areas not yet established in accordance with the law is also regulated. In this way investments in the construction of public infrastructure can be accelerated. It is worth noting that the amendment of the law also agrees with the Court of Auditors or, in principle, has no reservations. The Court of Auditors recently issued a post-revision report requiring the implementation of additional corrective measures. Neither did the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia comment on the proposal for a law. That is why we will support the proposal. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, however, we point out that in the future a new system law on water will have to be drawn up as soon as possible due to demands for a better legislative and business environment that will regulate some other necessary simplifications of procedures. Above all, in our view, we are not aware that water is not only a public good and a natural asset, but also a strategic asset of the 21st century, especially in the light of climate or climate change, and that greater efforts and engagement will therefore be needed in the future to create better water management organisation. We would also like to draw attention to the deteriorating state of watercourses, which are increasing the risks to floods that we are witnessing in our vicinity these days, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. In this regard, the issue of the Water Fund and the non-use of funds of the Fund were mentioned at the meeting of the parent working body. We ourselves agree that the funds flowing into the water fund should be used primarily for the construction of anti-water infrastructure. In the future, we will have to allocate more resources to reduce flood threats. Floods are indeed a natural phenomenon facing us all the time, and we must not ignore the fact that the frequency and strength of these phenomena are increasingly affected by climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament and the rest of the House, good afternoon! Let me say in the introduction that we support in the National Charter the proposal of the Water Supplementation Act, which in no way affects the current water management regime, but is aimed only at simplifying water consent procedures and simplifying the allocation of water rights. In order to obtain the right to use water with a minor impact, for example, it introduces a simpler electronic recording procedure and will no longer be required to obtain project conditions for the issue of water consent. As the main objective of the novel is to remove some administrative obstacles in these procedures, this will therefore be likely to also contribute to improving the business environment and increasing competitiveness for those who encounter these processes in carrying out their business activities. Both the reasonable removal of administrative burdens and obstacles and debirocratisation as well as the improvement of the business environment are very important content of the National List programme as well as our political manifesto. However, taking into account the fact that the amendment is also about the implementation of corrective measures in the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in 2009 and 2010, this is an additional reason to support the amendment of the law. It is a pity that these changes to the Water Act due to the urgency of the procedure and the time constraints have failed to put us into the previous amendment of the law only a few months ago. Finally, there may be a need to be particularly careful when adopting legislation that regulates essential life’s goods and natural resources, such as water. Let us not forget that, among other things, a recent initiative has been launched to ensure that the right to drinking water is enshrined in the Constitution. As we say, we will support the amendment of the law in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you again very much for your word. This time, a good greeting to all present! It's a nice view of our balcony. Of course, a warm greeting to them too. So, we have already talked a lot about the changes and additions to the Water Act today and we have heard a lot about it, so I do not want to stress the content of this proposal of the amendment of the law, and I can also say on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group that we welcome the proposed novelism which we understand as the next step in removing administrative obstacles and simplifying various administrative procedures. So, as far as the changes in the law are concerned, let me practically not say anything else. In view of the fact that we regulate the area of water, we are quite united everywhere, i.e. in all the parliamentary groups, that we have in the legislative area, but above all in the organisational area, much more to do at the level of the country and at the level of our regions, and on the one hand in the regulation of water or flood protection and on the other hand in the supply of drinking water. I am pleased that these things have already begun to be regulated in the previous government, that the current government or the leadership of the ministry, the current one and the previous one, is also continuing with these preparations, and it is certain that, given that we are in a situation as we are, it will obviously remain for the next suit in the ministry, enough or even too much work. And when we talk about regulating the water field today, I cannot help but expose this great tragedy that has plagued some of our friendly nations. A week ago, we could not imagine in our dreams what will happen in the big area, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and partly in Croatia. This, of course, calls for virtually no protection tasks to be completed in this area, but we can do much to mitigate the consequences of all these threats. After all, history in Slovenia, the history of floods and captures in Slovenia is not an unwritten paper sheet, but we still have during our memory, especially those who are a little older, quite catastrophic events in Slovenia's recent history. For this reason, it is also important that all these measures are properly planned, properly planned and implemented and, on the other hand, that, given the lack of funding, we also make the most of the possibility of using European funds. The fact is that droughts and floods have been constantly changing in recent decades and, as it is said, the problem is even greater. Similarly, in another area, drinking water supply, where it is also our obligation to benefit from European funds, because obviously, and I don't know why, if we have European resources, we would benefit exclusively from domestic resources. Therefore, it is also so important that we realize, once again, these cohesion funds. As it is said, we will support the proposal for amendments to this law in the parliamentary group, because any administrative obstacle to some planning and management is welcome. As it is said, we support this in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on inspection supervision within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government is proposing an amendment to the Inspection Control Act. This is a matter of minor changes, but it is our view that it is very important for more effective inspection. I'm just going to introduce a few more important points. A so-called annual work programme is being introduced to determine the content and scope of the regular control tasks. Above all, it is very important that the Minister responsible for public administration and in charge of the Inspection Council also informs the Government of the priorities of the inspection work, and we estimate that this will achieve a more coordinated functioning of the inspection and, of course, an interdisciplinary link. In the course of the substantive amendments, I would also stress the provision relating to the general clause on the basis of which it will be provided that the inspector may give all the measures laid down by the Inspection Act, even though the individual law provides for certain or even does not provide for them; it is so-called subsidiarity. In particular, due to the Supreme Court’s decision, the second paragraph of Article 19 of the Act will be supplemented by a legal basis for obtaining and processing personal data of so-called third parties, legal persons or natural persons, where this is in the interest of carrying out inspection, and a criminal provision will be supplemented. What is important is the innovation being introduced; it is the so-called virtual purchase when the inspector presents himself after the purchase has been made. This means that it will be able to carry out the full inspection more effectively. The notification of the applicant’s condition of application shall be regulated if it so requests, but it was not so clear after the conclusion of the present provisions. In the event of a false application, the inspection procedure shall be suspended and the so-called qualification of a false application, or the model of a false complaint, shall be added. It is important to supplement Article 34, which will enable the inspector to seal the items or devices used by the debtor as a natural person for the purpose of carrying out the activity. It is also important to regulate the infringement provisions and to clearly record that the inspector will impose fines in advance on the basis and in accordance with the specific law, only on the basis and in accordance with the Inspection Control Act. The government proposes that the Members accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Inspection Control Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The Committee was informed of the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and the review of the amendments of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the members of the Group of Members of Positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS on Articles 2, 7, 8, 12 and 15 to 23. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior said that the proposal for a law followed a decision of the Supreme Court, which found that the provision currently in force of the Inspection Act concerning the acquisition of personal data from natural and legal persons who were otherwise not parties to the inspection procedure, however, it was insufficient to obtain such data, so that it was necessary to specify in the proposed amendment of the law that personal data could also be obtained in such cases because of the interests of the inspection. With regard to the exercise of inspectors' powers, the proposal for a law is also complemented by the possibility of an apparent purchase of goods and services. As an example, the non-issue of invoices for goods sold or services provided is mentioned. In such cases, inspectors could effectively carry out controls in such a way as to identify the offender after the infringement has been committed. With a view to the prudent use of budgetary resources, the inspection badge shall be withdrawn and an annual work programme based on the principle of compliance of inspections shall be established with the aim of rationalising the work of inspectors. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that most of the comments to the proposal had been taken into account by the amendments tabled, and she reiterated the second paragraph of Article 19 of the Inspection Act and stressed that the definition of persons who were bound to provide data was very general and would therefore indicate the proposed amendment in terms of proportionality of the interference with the right to personal data protection to be re-examined and further clarified. It also further highlighted Article 12 of the proposal for a law amending Article 38 of the Inspection Control Act and warned that such an arrangement, where fines are imposed on offenders only where there is no other provision under a specific law, derogates from the established way in which criminal provisions are drawn up. This indicates that the amendment is proposed due to difficulties in interpreting and applying the law at the implementing level. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations said that the State Council supported the proposal for a law. However, he pointed out that, despite savings in the public sector and the ban on new employment in inspection services, this should not be a rule. Only personnel and professionally strong inspection services can carry out good inspections. He also suggested that the inspection services should have a single number, as regulated by the police, firefighters and paramedics. By means of a single number, an individual could be targeted at a specific inspectorate, making the state administration more user-friendly. The representative of the Inspection Council welcomed the State Council's comments that saving in the public sector should not be a rule for inspection services. She stressed that the review and control of legislation could be carried out in a qualitative manner only through professional and human resources-intensive inspection services. With regard to the single number for the inspection services, however, she said that Halo Inspection had been cancelled and Halo Administration was used. Without discussion, the members and members of the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the members of the positive Slovenia, the National Gazette and DeSUS. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The legal security of citizens depends largely on the effective functioning of the judiciary and inspection services, which oversee the implementation of the rules adopted and sanction their non-implementation. In this area, we can say that Slovenia failed the exam. The level of citizens' confidence in the rule of law is at the bottom, and so the situation calls for root actions in this area. The area of inspection services is particularly problematic, as we have repeatedly warned Christian Democrats in our positions. The organisation of inspection services is already inadequate only from the point of view of legislation. We have 25 different inspections that are fragmented across different departments and ministries. Every inspection has a specific actual jurisdiction. From the point of view of local competence, each inspection shall have its own internal organisation. The recognition of inspection services is poor, as the public does not even know about the existence of certain inspections. Access to them is also poorly managed despite many communication options and we cannot get rid of the feeling that inspections have actually become their own purpose. Some inspectorates or internal organisational units require only two or four hours of official hours per week, and even at that time direct contact with the inspector is not possible as often as possible. Even more than the organisation or organisation of inspection services, their functioning and effectiveness, or better said inaction and inefficiency, are problematic. It follows from the 2013 annual inspection report that there are as many as 5,000 444 employees in the inspection services, of which there are thousands of 409 inspectors. This is therefore a rather extensive state apparatus, which does not produce the desired results over a longer period of time. The number of inspections carried out is too small, the measures taken and the criminal proceedings also fail to achieve their purpose, both general and special preventive. It is a matter of concern that inspections do not take action where it is evident that the inspection should take action and have no legal or other reason to abandon action. If we only point out cases of construction inspection, which in many cases of black construction do not act in the manner prescribed by the laws and powers. Of course, there are cases where owners of such black buildings are influential in public or political life. On the other hand, inspections are extremely consistent, fast and effective when it comes to acting on the black construction of ordinary citizens. For example, Darko Kuzmič, who was also billed for the demolition of a house, a house on black, built in Bohinj. He didn't own the house he lived in. In the course of the night, he became homeless and remained with the promise of Minister Omerzel to help him. Minister Omerzel, nothing. We must also point out a work inspection where the number of infringements is rising from year to year, and thus the situation of Christian Democrats is largely due to ineffective control and sanctioning of violators by inspection. In fact, all of this encourages employers to disregard the rules, since such violations are rarely sanctioned. As a weaker party to the labour contract relationship, the worker remains vulnerable and must seek his rights in expensive and long-term judicial proceedings. If we look at neighbouring Austria, we find that they were able to establish an extremely good and effective supervisory system there to deal with violations of the labour regulations that offer effective protection of workers from the illegal acts of the employer, and we see no reason why such a system would not be able to be established in our Republic of Slovenia. According to the Home Affairs Minister's forecasts, we expected Christian Democrats to be more radical, systematic interventions into work, status and organisation of inspection services. However, we have only been waiting for something, we can say, minor cosmetic amendments to the Inspection Control Act, which, in our firm belief, will not contribute to improving the efficiency of the inspection services. In New Slovenia, we are not inclined to change legislation if it is not a serious, substantive, deliberate intervention, which we have repeatedly stressed in our views in the past. For this reason, Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Inspection Control Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today is a time when there is no more time; a just and fair state must begin to function. And in order to ensure the successful functioning of the rule of law, it is certainly also important that we regulate the operation of inspection services. Mrs. Potrata, thank you for leaving so you won't interfere with the work of the National Assembly. Let me continue with the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. As already stated in the introduction by the Chairman of the Home Committee, the Council of State stressed that only the staff and professionally strong inspection services could successfully carry out their tasks. It should also be pointed out that appropriate spaces should also be provided for their work. This may not be a topic today, but it may also indicate that the inspection services may be able to move to another place, another city congregation. We have a Dars building in Cel, where we can cut costs and ensure a successful job. We accept the proposed amendments and additions to the Inspection Control Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Otherwise, I must say that we are also expressing doubts as to whether all these solutions will contribute to the successful control of 25 inspectorates. It is also sad that we must always be warned by the courts, the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Court that the legislative proposals adopted in this Chamber of Democracy are not always in accordance with the Constitution. This is also the purpose of the amendment of the law, because, as the Secretary of State has already said, some of the proposed amendments and additions are made precisely because of the fact that the acquisition of personal data of natural and legal persons, i.e. third parties appearing in the process, was in breach of the Constitution or the applicable legislation. We welcome the abolition of the inspection badge, and we particularly welcome the need for inspection services to prepare an annual work programme. Whether the proposed amendments, which shorten the time for carrying out the inspection examination or the conditions to be met by the inspector from one year to six months, will give rise to the expected better professional supervision, will show time. Inspectors wishing to obtain powers must fulfil the condition that they have administrative proceedings and administrative disputes, procedures for the management and decision-making of offences and inspection procedures. It is three very difficult and complex areas, and we believe that those who have prepared the law have considered very well whether 6 months is the marriage period that allows these exams to be carried out. However, we would recommend that in the future we ensure that persons with administrative proceedings and administrative disputes are already entering the inspection system. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. Ms Janja Klasinc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a nice greeting to all present! In Positive Slovenia we see inspection mainly as a educational measure. Inspection services should first alert offenders or potential offenders and only then punish them. Nevertheless, we believe that this novelty brings quite useful news. The main purpose of Article 11a is to adopt an annual work programme of the Inspectorate, which is to establish operational measures to ensure the effective implementation of the tasks. However, the proposed amendments to Article 19 of the Law should provide a clear legal basis for obtaining personal data from legal and natural persons against whom the inspection procedure is not conducted, but those persons have the evidence and others, including the personal data necessary to carry out the inspection. This should enable the collection of data which could be evidence throughout the inspection process. It is also proposed that a shorter period should be allowed to pass the inspector's examination. Earlier this was one year, now it has been reduced to 6 months, which we welcome in Positive Slovenia. The novelty also allows for the possibility of an apparent purchase of goods or services, which would help to facilitate the detection of unaccounted violators for their services. According to the new report, inspectors will also identify themselves only with an inspection card, as the bill abolishes the inspection badge. This will also save some of the budget resources on this account, as a total of €16 000 has been spent on the last public contract for the production of these stamps. In Positive Slovenia, we support the proposal of the novel. We only hope that this will lead to more effective inspection in all areas. Some news in the marriage novel leads to direct rationalisation and cost reduction, which we unquestionably support in Positive Slovenia, and some news is that we want to be visible pieces in the mosaic of the elimination of the grey economy. Otherwise, we want inspection not only to be better legally defined; especially in Positive Slovenia, we want it to be better and more broadly organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I believe it is disturbing for some to point to intellectual theft, and the SDS party has been informed that the heirs of the literary opus of Danet Rabbit object to taking his verse for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u53	Mrs Potrata, I must warn you that controversy is not allowed with the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u54	Mr President, you did not warn Mrs Ramshak, who cursed me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u55	But the occasion was on the other side [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you. That's it. I'm aware, but since you didn't defend me, I defended myself. However, there remains an intellectual place where Members and Members of the National Assembly should be particularly sensitive and should be opposed, but I understand that ethical criteria are very different in people. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Control Act. Why are we doing this? We do not see the proposed novel as those that would intervene more extensively and more radically in the operation of inspection controls, but deal with some issues that we expect to increase the effectiveness of inspection controls. We can recall all the criticisms that individuals or institutions have at the expense of the work of inspection services. For example, we can recall the recommendations adopted every year by the National Assembly in the reports of the Ombudsman, which points out the human rights of individual inspection services, which should also be a fundamental and disturbing fact for the better functioning of inspection services. The proposed amendments and additions are considered by the proposer to be necessary by the Government in order to increase the efficiency of the inspection services. Legal grounds shall be laid down for obtaining personal data from persons who are otherwise not subject to inspection. The reason for such an intervention is the position of the Supreme Court in one of the judgments. It's about organizational and substantive changes. The organisational changes relate to the management of inspections and the powers of the Chief Inspector will also apply to administrative inspection, inspection of the public service system, inspection of the public sector wage system, and budgetary inspection. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that the provisions of the novel are also fully applicable to the defence inspection. The time for the examination shall also be reduced by half, from one year to six months. The interest of the inspectors is that the new employees will be fully employed as soon as possible. An annual work path shall also be introduced to determine the content and scope of the regular control tasks and tasks in relation to the risk assessment for all areas of the inspectorate’s competence. The proposed law is not subject to coordination with European Union law, and the comparative review in the introduction shows that European countries have different controls. If we compare ourselves with Austria, and very often we like to compare ourselves with Austria, there are completely different inspections; there they are carried out by different administrative police. Whether this is a model that is acceptable to Slovenia as well, it is an issue that should be discussed more thoroughly and also an analysis. We do not support changing the law into a fast and without the necessary analysis, especially because since 2002 the Inspection Control Act has not been amended frequently and more extensively. But if everything is so critical, we wonder why the changes have not been made before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thanks again. Dear Members and Members! The Inspection Control Act was passed in 2002 and is one of the few laws that has been amended to date only once in 2007. However, in the last 12 years of application, the implementation of the law and the implementation of the inspection supervision have also demonstrated some of the shortcomings that are being addressed with the novel that is before us today. The fact is that trust in the rule of law and equality before the law between citizens and citizens is dangerously low. In doing so, we often forget that it is not only the courts that ensure respect for the rule of law and punish those who violate the law, but also the inspectors who perform the primary role of monitoring compliance with the laws. And it is precisely at a time when we are all aware that the grey economy is the greatest threat to the rule of law and, above all, to the social and solidarity state, that it is essential to ensure more effective and coordinated inspection. In order to allow for even more effective control, the Inspection Control Act must also be upgraded. The amendment of the law thus reduces, for example, the deadline for the completion of the inspection examination required for the position of inspector, by introducing an annual programme of work of an individual inspection which will increase the coordination of all inspections, the inspection badge shall be withdrawn. Among the most important news is the explicit determination of the measure of so-called apparent purchase, which will allow the inspector to show up with a business card only after the purchase has been made. In the case of, for example, failure to issue an invoice for the goods sold, which today represents a large proportion of the infringements, inspectors in the law in force do not have the basis for determining that they can simply purchase and find out quickly and simply whether they will receive an invoice for the purchase of the goods made. The fact is that effective and coordinated inspection is urgently needed, as it represents supervision of the implementation or compliance of laws and other regulations, and the fact that inspection services are already doing well, therefore drastic changes in this area are not necessary in our view, statistics also confirm. In 2013, 135 thousand 508 inspections were conducted and 562 thousand 206 inspections were carried out and 84 thousand 995 measures were taken together. At a time when we are all aware of how important it is to reflect the extent of the grey economy, on the other hand, we are also aware that, in order to exercise effective control of inspection services, it is not enough to change the law but, above all, the support of the public and the awareness of society as a whole is necessary, that everyone must respect the rules and that the main purpose of the inspections is not to punish and impose fines, but in particular to ensure the functioning of the rule of law. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Inspection Control Act as it represents another measure to effectively combat the grey economy, which the government of Alenka Bratušek has given a lot of attention to, and we hope that the same goals will also be pursued by the future government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello again, all of you! The new Inspection Act brings solutions that will increase efficiency, better coordination and rationalisation of inspection services. The effectiveness of the inspection services will be achieved, inter alia, by allowing the inspector to identify himself to the debtors only after the service has been performed or after the offence has been committed. It is a so-called virtual purchase of goods or services. The fact is that certain infringements such as the failure to issue a cash account and the like are almost impossible to identify in any other way. A further measure towards greater efficiency is to shorten the time limit for the examination of an inspector from one year to 6 months, which means that new inspectors will be operationally able within a short period of time. If, until now, it has been considered that the inspectors had to inform the notifiers of their actions not later than 15 days after the receipt of the application and later after the action taken, the amendment of the law will allow the inspectors to notify the notifier of their actions no later than after the supervision and the last measure taken. In this way, inspectors will not have to deal so much with administrative obligations and will be able to devote more time to their mission of effective inspection with a view to protecting the public interest and the interests of legal and natural persons. Certain savings can also be expected by removing the inspection stamps. We must be aware that it operates in Slovenia over 25 different inspection services, which differ not only in areas of control but also in different signs and symbols that increase their visibility. The confidence of the debtors and others in the credibility of the inspectors in our conviction will not be shaken, as the latter will continue to use official cards in their identification. Let me touch the credentials for the end. On the basis of the case-law of the Supreme Court, section 19 is added to the bill, which will allow inspectors to require data of a personal nature from legal and natural persons who are not subject to the procedure, in addition to other evidence and data. In exercising this mandate, inspectors will only be able to require those personal data which they will need to carry out inspection. We are in favour of an effective country in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, which should be an effective service for citizens and businesses. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Last year, ever since the performance, the government has already fallen, we have been bombed by some government officials with populist passwords on the 100 million inflows to the state budget on the basis of more restrictive measures against the grey economy. In public, it has given the impression that millions of euros lie in drawers of Slovenian craftsmen, innkeepers and defences in markets, and it is only too little for these millions to be poured into the state budget. At the same time, the pronunciations, innkeepers, craftsmen and household assistants or cleaners have become the national enemy number one, which depreciates the state budget monthly for ten million amounts of tax evasion. On the other hand, we have publicly available data on taxpayers who owe around €900 million to the State on the basis of legal or judicial decisions. Since we are not able to get to this money in any way, it is obvious that the defenders and cleaners are the main culprit for the high level of the grey economy in our country. But without any mistake, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are deeply aware of the problems of the grey economy, which must be tackled with all means, but in a realistic and human way. One of these means is also adequate and effective control carried out on behalf of the State by various inspections. The proposed amendment to the Law on Inspection does not directly address the fight against the grey economy, as most of the proposed amendments relate to the organisational and procedural provisions of the law. The proposed law touches the grey economy most with the proposed application of a new inspection mandate, the so-called apparent purchase. In the event of a failure to issue an invoice for the goods or services sold, the inspector will be able to identify himself at the scene of the offence and take immediate action. The proposed novelty follows the findings of the Supreme Court decision, which found that there was a lack of data on natural and legal persons who were not parties to the proceedings. The draft law thus provides that, in the interests of inspection, these persons must also provide personal data. In our view, this will accelerate a number of inspections and facilitate the work of inspectors. The proposed law also extends the validity of the organisational provisions to administrative inspection, inspection of the public service system, public sector salary inspection and budgetary inspection, and shortens the time limit for the examination of the inspector from one year to six months. As positive in our Group, we also assess the introduction of an annual work programme that will rationalise the operation of inspections based on the principle of compliance of inspections. The programme will therefore be based on a risk assessment for all areas of the Inspectorate's competence, taking into account information on the history of the debtors and other information on the occurrence of risks or risks. We will not oppose the proposed amendment of the Inspection Control Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the proposed amendment to the Law on Inspection Control. The current law is being amended as many shortcomings in the law have been demonstrated in the field of the implementation of inspections and the acquisition of data relating to them in practice. As established by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decision, the provision of the law concerning the acquisition of personal data from natural and legal persons who are not parties to the inspection procedure is, however, insufficient. As a result of this novelty, it is specified that in these cases personal data may also be obtained from those persons because of the interests of carrying out the inspection. The draft law extends the scope of the Law on Inspection in full, including to the Defence Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The Inspectorate shall exercise control in the Slovenian Armed Forces Command and Units, national authorities, local community bodies and bodies in the composition and internal organisational units of the ministries, companies, institutions and other organisations responsible for carrying out defence preparations, economic companies, institutions and other organisations dealing with classified data from the defence field, companies engaged in the production and trafficking of military weapons and equipment, project, labour and temporary groups and the commissions of the Ministry. In view of the fact that the Inspectorate not only exercises administrative internal control, but also controls over economic companies and independent entrepreneurs, the proposal is based on the opinion of the DeSUS Group. At the same time, it is also proposed to extend the validity of the organisational provisions to full administrative inspection, inspection of the public service system, public sector wage inspection and budgetary inspection. It is proposed to shorten the time limit for the examination of inspectors from one year to 6 months. It is in the interests of the inspectors that new employees of public servants or seconded public servants who have not yet carried out a professional examination for an inspector shall meet the requirement to begin work at the workplace as soon as possible, where an expert examination for an inspector is required as a condition for the occupation of the job. At the same time, it is also proposed to supplement the provisions on the consequences of the unexecuted professional examination for the inspector. With regard to the exercise of inspectors' powers, the law is also complemented by the possibility of an apparent purchase of goods or services, at the proposal of certain inspectors. As an example, the failure to issue invoices for sold goods or services, which is a problem which inspectors have been facing for many years. However, the supervision of such a grey economy could be effectively carried out by inspectors in order to identify the offender after the infringement itself. The inspection mark shall also be withdrawn with a view to the prudent use of budgetary resources. The transitional provisions amend other laws governing inspectors' badges and set a 6-month time limit for the harmonisation of sub-laws in the work where the service mark is drawn up. The bill also provides some solutions that will help to rationalize the work of inspection services. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are assessing the proposed solutions positively, and we will therefore, as I mentioned at the outset, support the proposal of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u65	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we have special features in the banking system compared to other developed European countries. This particularity is mainly that state-owned banks are mainly state-owned. All but a few foreign banks are state-owned, and that means that the state owns these banks. The fact that the State owns these banks is now a heavy burden. Why? Because Banka Slovenije, as chief supervisor, determines the capital adequacy or inadequacy of Slovenian banks. On this basis, the request to the owner – the owner is the state represented by the government – to recapitalise the Slovenian banks. This has happened in the last 6 months at the Factor Bank and Probank, at the New Ljubljana Bank, at the New Maribor Credit Bank, and we spent about EUR 3 billion. Besides, there's extra money for the Factor Bank and Probank. We're still waiting for Abank. In this regard, the role of Banka Slovenije is extremely important, because it requires the owner or the government to use taxpayers' money for recapitalisation. And taxpayers need to know where the money goes. Taxpayers need to know how this money is used. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to increase the role of the National Assembly, to increase the role of Members and Members in the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, meaning in other words that the Bank of Slovenia reports more frequently to the National Assembly on the measures it has actually taken or on the measures it has taken concerning banks, particularly in the case of state banks, in particular if these banks require State aid or are subject to State aid. In this case, it is important that we also establish in the National Assembly the responsibility of the Governor and Vice-Governors by reporting on all actions taken by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The Council of the Bank of Slovenia is a few people; these are governors and vice-governors. In this regard, we also propose that the Commission should have a representative in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia to oversee public finances, which is the one that controls the use of public finances, state money. This seems important to us because this is the commission led by the opposition concerned with saving, for the economy and also for the legality of the money spent. In addition, with the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act, we propose that the Governor have greater powers in the recruitment of directors in Banka Slovenije. He is responsible for the recruitment, he is responsible for the operations of the Bank of Slovenia and therefore we give him more powers on the one hand and on the other hand more responsibility. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the debate on the Banka Slovenije Act is necessary, especially because taxpayers are increasingly financing banks and on the other hand have less and less money due to the increase in taxes in the last year. This also, of course, means that the role of the National Assembly and the role of Members and Members will be increased and that the Governor, the Deputy Governor, will report more frequently and in a different way than he has reported so far. And last but not least, when it comes to state aid, we don't see any reason for this information to be classified. These are the main amendments to the bill. This is what we owe to give to our voters and voters, because the Bank of Slovenia indirectly uses taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mag. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u68	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government considers as crucial in relation to the proposed proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act that the proposed amendments affect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. From the outset, it must be said that the European Central Bank, which has stated itself in accordance with the rules on the proposed bill, does not support this. However, with regard to concrete amendments, we are assessing the following. Applicants propose to supplement Article 26 of the Law governing the reporting of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly. In this regard, it is proposed that the Bank of Slovenia report should be comprehensive and, as far as necessary, should also include confidential information and information. In the current regime, Banka Slovenije's reporting is adequate and comprehensive and therefore there is no need for changes in this area. When assessing this reporting obligation, it should also be borne in mind that according to the law in force, representatives of the National Assembly have the possibility to obtain information from the Bank of Slovenia, as a representative of the National Assembly Committee responsible for Finance and Monetary Policy may participate in meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. This competence, in terms of obtaining relevant information, is actually stronger than the more frequent reporting to the National Assembly, as proposed by the drafters of the law. The government is also opposed to the proposal that governors and vice-governors should be re-appointed no more than once, as we believe that there are no legitimate reasons for such a restriction on the number of governors and vice-governors' mandates. The appointment of the Governor and Vice-Governors is one way or another within the competence of the National Assembly, which gives the Member the opportunity not to appoint the Governor or Vice-Governor again, who has failed in his work so far as the Governor or Vice-Governor has been successful. We also disagree with the proposal that the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia would require a two-thirds majority of all Members, as we believe that the current regime, which requires the appointment of a majority of all Members, is still a qualified majority, appropriate and comparable to that of other comparable laws, such as the Constitutional Court Act or the Court of Auditors Act. The law in force concerning the discharge of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia provides that a member may be released prematurely only if he so requests discharge, if there are grounds for incompatibilities during the term of office, or if he finds in the prescribed procedure that he no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or has committed a serious breach. We note that the reasons for the early discharge of the Governor are the same as those laid down in the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank for early discharge, and therefore we do not agree with the proposal that a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia may be dismissed even if the discharge is proposed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The government also opposes the proposal that Banka Slovenije’s operations be revised by the audit economic service chosen by the National Assembly. This is contrary to the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which provides that the audit of the accounts of the European Central Bank and the national central banks shall be carried out by independent external auditors recommended by the Governing Council and endorsed by the Council of the European Union. It takes into account all of the above and takes into account once again the opinion given by the European Central Bank on the proposal for a law, the Government does not support the bill and we propose that the National Assembly vote that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u70	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act. The main objective of the proposed law is to increase or ensure transparency of operation and establish the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its organs, the Governor and the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law follows in particular the principle of transparency, transparency and accountability of the functioning of public institutions and their bodies. The draft law itself proposes amendments to the provisions concerning the number of terms of office of the Governor and the Vice-Governor and to the appointment and discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thus, the governors and vice-governors could be re-appointed at the most once, the dismissal of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia could be proposed by the President of the Republic and decided by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members. A two-thirds majority of all Members would also appoint members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In order to ensure more efficient operation of Banka Slovenije itself, it is proposed that the Governor may at any time, without reason, dismiss the Director or Deputy Director of the Banka Slovenije department. The obligation to protect confidential bank data is often used as an excuse to cover up all the wrong decisions of bank management, which may also be at the threshold of legality, as has been shown in the case of the controlled liquidation of private banks of Factor Bank and Probank. However, it can also be used as an excuse to conceal the wrong decisions of the Bank's own council, in particular the vice-governor responsible for overseeing the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. It is therefore proposed that the obligation to protect confidential data of members of the Council of Banka Slovenije, Banka Slovenije and other persons is not applicable to data relating to banks and savings banks that have received State aid or have been subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, and that data is required by the National Assembly, the National Assembly's working body or the Commission of Inquiry. This will allow the National Assembly, which must make an important decision regarding the resolution of problems in the Slovenian banking system, to obtain relevant data and responsibility for the situation. In these articles, which the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes as a responsible party, I think the main issues regarding Banka Slovenije's reporting are to make a change here in order to make the commitment of Banka Slovenije to report to the National Assembly half a year in terms of fluctuations and the situation in the banking system in Slovenia. From the perspective of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think this is more than necessary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this is the first reading of this law. We have certainly considered the opinion of the European Central Bank, which explains in some parts of this proposed law that the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the Statute and the principles of the European Central Bank are not possible. However, it should be pointed out that the European Central Bank, its opinion, does not completely deny all articles and proposals for amending the Bank of Slovenia Act. The Slovenian Democratic Party appeals to all the parliamentary groups of this national assembly to support this proposal in the first reading, because we are probably all aware that Slovenia is the only transition country that has been rehabilitating the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The first rehabilitation was carried out between 1993 and 1996, and the second rehabilitation was accepted and confirmed in the framework of this National Assembly. And as part of this second recovery, taxpayers will be able to pay around €6 billion for the second recovery of the banking system. EUR 6 billion for the second rehabilitation of state-owned banks, Slovenia. It is worrying, however, that we have probably not come here to this day, either at the first recovery or at the second recovery, primarily to be responsible. We estimate that Banka Slovenije is a market regulator who is likely to have a decisive word in these matters and which should be the first to warn about errors and to stop the possibility of certain irregularities or to establish a suitable risk system that would significantly reduce the chances of not going forward in Slovenia until the third resolution of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is worrying that the banking system has already been rehabilitated at the expense of 6 billion euro taxpayers. The state put the money in the banks, but the rest didn't happen. We have not witnessed any deviation, no withdrawal offered, despite the fact that the banking system had a large hole of €6 billion. Human resources policy continues the same. It is interesting to look at the system of management bodies of the Ljubljana Bank in 1991. These same people today are in the same management bodies of the same New Ljubljana Bank or have been staffed by other business banks and by other business financial systems. And this practice continues now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we miss that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance have not explained to the public and taxpayers what is now expected of these rehabilitated banks. We have not pursued any objective or obligation as to what will happen to these banks. I think that this is an important law, an important law both for competitiveness and for the development of the country and for the development of entrepreneurship, as well as for the development of economic competitiveness, and, of course, a law that will have an important impact on the fact that the third recovery of the banking system will not take place at the expense of taxpayers. We have also examined this opinion of the European Central Bank. We estimate that this opinion is correctly written, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that in the second and third reading of this law a law can be made good, quality through the participation of all parliamentary groups. Certain proposals in this law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are essential. I think we are talking about a very important body, a very important regulator, which oversees the operation of all banks in Slovenia. We are confident that the proposed changes are leading in the right direction, in a direction where greater transparency of business will be ensured and that, with certain amendments to the law, we will in particular reduce the risk that the mistakes we have witnessed in the first resolution of the banking system in the second resolution of the banking system would no longer be repeated in the future. And I am sure that the interest of everyone here who sits in this National Assembly, who has a responsibility to our constituents, is that we are aware that we must do everything we can to ensure that the new collapse of the banking system, which we have witnessed in Slovenia twice at the expense of taxpayers, would no longer occur. We also assess that this amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act also provides in some way greater responsibility and that the National Assembly would have an opportunity to look into certain parts. We certainly estimate that banking secrecy is important, but we do not exclude it, but we estimate that it would be fair for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to explain to the public who is responsible for what happened when banking systems or financial systems are recovered at the expense of taxpayers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned that the second resolution of the banking system, which will cost Slovenian citizens and citizens about €6 billion – does not exclude this figure from increasing further – that it is not due to the relationship of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at any given time to any guarantee that this issue will not happen again. Here, in particular, we miss the measures and targets that the Ministry of Finance would have announced in this recovery to give business banks that have been recapitalised with tax money to know what is expected of this, or at least to explain whether the taxpayers will ever get that money back. Not to mention liability, and not a single derogation took place, both on the part of the regulator and on the business bank management bodies, which were saved at the expense of tax money of about €6 billion. Once again, I would like to invite all my colleagues and colleagues here in this National Assembly: this is the first reading of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that certain ways are good, certain things proposed in this law. Of course, we will take into account the opinion of the European Central Bank, which has also given a negative opinion on certain changes to the article or warned that this is not possible under the European banking system regulation. On behalf of the SDS Group, I propose that the proposal for first reading be confirmed that it is decided that the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is suitable for further consideration and that, in further procedures, all the parliamentary groups try to make this law one that is qualitative, transparent and that will follow the objectives of becoming competitive, transparent Slovenian banks and that there will be no one empty where the money will go, we do not know where, and the taxpayers will charge that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be represented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, sets out the aim of the law to increase or ensure the transparency of the operation and to establish the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its authorities. Transparency of operation would, according to the applicant, be ensured by exceptions to the duty to protect confidential information when requested by the National Assembly or its committees. The participation of representatives of the National Assembly at Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings would also be possible. It further proposes to amend the rules governing the appointment of the Governor and introduces a new reason for the dismissal of members of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law also provides that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, shall select an external audit company to revise the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we find that the proposal for a law does not interfere with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank also provide for this. The arrangements and powers of the Bank of Slovenia are further defined and laid down in the current Bank of Slovenia Act, which was prepared in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. The institutional independence of the central bank means that it is prohibited for central banks and members of its management bodies to seek and accept instructions from the institutions and bodies of the European Union, governments or bodies of other Member States and other bodies. Therefore, this proposal of the law already has a strong and unacceptable impact on the independence of the Bank of Slovenia in this part. The Bank of Slovenia is defined as the central bank of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 152 of the Constitution of Slovenia. According to the Constitution, Banka Slovenije is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Central Bank also gave an opinion on the draft law. To all the amendments proposed, it has been identified strongly negative. It has submitted key aspects of the principle of independence of central banks to the members of the European System of Central Banks. The view of the European Central Bank is that the personal independence of the Governor and other members of the decision-making bodies of the national central bank is crucial. The opinion of the Government, which we have received, also finds that the amendment of the law does not contain all the required elements in Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the work relating to the presentation of the regulation in other legal systems. This should include an overview of the arrangements in at least three legal systems of the Member States of the European Union, but the presentation in the draft law does not apply substantively to the areas governed by the proposal for a law. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia is therefore of the opinion that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banka Slovenije Act was not submitted by the proposer, as was already presented in several explanations and opinions today, so that it can be confirmed in Positive Slovenia, but only in the first reading. In fact, the inadmissibility of interfering with the independence of Banka Slovenije and in addition the strongly negative position of the European Central Bank led us to conclude that, in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banka Slovenije Act will not be confirmed in the first reading, as we estimate that this amendment of the law is unacceptable and is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u74	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I will not repeat the views expressed so far, which refer to the European Central Bank's rejection position. Banka Slovenije is included in the Eurosystem, and Social Democrats are assessed that, in order to ensure the constitutional independence of the Bank of Slovenia, it is necessary to be in its position in the event of possible interventions, especially on all issues and the occurrence of its independence, particularly sensitive and cautious. That is why the Social Democrats will not support the bill. If we respect the opinion of the European Central Bank, it is not possible today to do otherwise than to assess the law as inappropriate for further consideration. More than the provisions of this law, it actually upsets the context of the proposal. In fact, we have been fighting in Slovenia for some time to interpret responsibility, what and who brought Slovenia into the position we are in today. In these days, too, we listen to interpretations that say that Slovenia is in trouble because its public debt has grown too quickly – of course this is the responsibility of the left governments – and because we have not followed the path of radical austerity, belt tightening, reducing the public sector and reducing the scope and effectiveness of the social state. These would be the recipes of a threesome that some still call for help in Slovenia. The truth is somewhere else. For us to face the consequences, we must first identify the causes. The causes of Slovenian problems are the rapid, record-growing of its gross external debt between 2004 and 2008. At that time, we have created, with reckless monetary and economic policies, far the greatest amount of bad investment, and these poor investments now require action in the form of the resolution of the banking system. In doing so, we cannot avoid the issues of the responsibility of the management of the central bank at that time, the question of the appropriateness of the measures to reduce the balance between the prudential nature of monetary policy. Nevertheless, we are also setting such behaviours in the context of the then economic policy, which required rapid and irresponsible privatisation, overheating the economy through accelerated public investment, including the rapid completion of the highway programme, and other actions that we can indisputably make in the context of overheating the economy, the loss of balance in our economy and the emergence of devastating causes for the consequences that we were facing later. After that period, we had the privilege and responsibility of leading the government. And it is true that the Borut Pahor's government is then in response to the fact that we have protected the social state and because we have understood the public sector and the quality of public services as one of the measures to combat the crisis – we know that smart countries have also faced the crisis by increasing investment in the capacity, in public education, in research and in health care to overcome the challenges of growing unemployment and imbalances that have arisen in countries and economies. The last commitments made during this government are a response to the challenge that has actually been facing us since 2008 and it would be if we carried out a major recapitalisation of banks in 2009 – and I would like to remind ourselves that, even in the then Group of Social Democrats, we have taken such a decisive action – today, the problem is cheaper and smaller. But State debt is a direct consequence of the fact that the problem in the banking sector needs to be overcome. In doing so, the responsibility of the administrations, the supervisory councils, including the Bank of Slovenia, is a legitimate and in place issue, and let us not forget those who have created the economic policy of this country in the first government of Janez Janša. Respected and respected! So the battle for interpretation continues. We think that it would be good, based on real data and the opinion of prominent economists, to carefully examine the causes and finally reach an agreement. Only when we agree on the diagnosis will it be possible to ensure that the country adopts coherent, as much as possible unanimous measures to bring Slovenia out of the crisis and this weak recovery that we have witnessed will we fortify and ensure that recovery will not only be a statistical category but will also be recognized as soon as possible in new jobs and improved quality of life for people. The bill will be rejected by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! As has already been seen several times during the duration of this government's mandate, the proposaler, SDS, wants to make some changes that are not acceptable in nature and content. Today we will have a first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. What is the Bank of Slovenia anyway? It is the central bank of the Republic of Slovenia established on 25 June 1991 by the adoption of the Bank of Slovenia Act. The Bank of Slovenia and the members of its decision-making bodies shall be independent and shall not, in the performance of their duties under the Bank of Slovenia Act, be bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of the state or any other authorities, nor shall they address them in accordance with instructions and guidance. I believe we all know that a group of state authorities is also part of the National Assembly. Therefore, once again, the Bank of Slovenia and the members of its decision-making bodies are independent and are not bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of the state or any other authorities in the performance of their duties under the Bank of Slovenia Act, nor are they to be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidance. From 1 January 2007, the Bank of Slovenia is also a member of the Eurosystem in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which must fully implement in its operation. Why such an introduction to the very essence of the Bank of Slovenia? Simple. Everything written down clearly states that amendments to the legislation governing the operation of the Bank of Slovenia cannot be carried out just like that. When a political option does not like something, it does not get something because of the legal restriction, then it simply proposes a change of legislation. To ask ourselves why something is like that and why it is arranged in exactly the same way — no, it would be too much a waste of time. At least that's what it shows at first sight. And let's see exactly what the proposer wanted to change into such a system-wide law as an independent body such as the Bank of Slovenia. The requirements are as follows. More comprehensive reports than the Bank of Slovenia is preparing; reports should also include bank secrecy, in particular for banks and savings banks, which have been or will receive state aid. A different arrangement of work-related rights, wages – they should be regulated differently, but they do not say how else, but they would be regulated differently. In addition to the members of the Council, the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Minister responsible for Finance, the representative of the opposition should also participate in the meetings of the BS Council. Of course, they forget that the representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances may also be present at meetings and also does not have the right to vote, as does the Minister and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. They shall amend the provision concerning the number of terms of office of the Governor and the Vice-Governors. They could be appointed at most once after the new one, with a two-thirds majority of all Members. In order to make Banka Slovenije more efficient, they propose that the Governor may at any time, without any reason, dismiss the Director or Deputy Director of Banka Slovenije. It is further proposed that Banka Slovenije’s operations be revised by an external audit firm chosen by the National Assembly to which the Bank of Slovenia would submit a report to the audit company. Finally, the great banking secrecy, as mentioned above, I think the wound for which the applicant is again proposed for the third time in the last year proposes that the Bank of Slovenia and the responsible persons be relieved of their security obligations. Of course, this is somewhat linked to those banks and savings banks which were or will still be recipients of state aid. Both the European Central Bank and the Government gave their opinion on the draft law. And if we say that the Government is biased, we cannot say that and publicly defend the European Central Bank. And what was that opinion? What was the opinion on the proposal for a law for which the proposer stated that, in order to increase or ensure transparency of operations and to establish the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its authorities, these are the Governor and the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, of course, following the principles of transparency, transparency and accountability of the functioning of the public institutions and their bodies? The European Central Bank has, you will not believe, given a negative opinion. The opinion was divided into four substantive sets, namely, first discharge of the members of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Slovenia. Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union refers to the principle of personal independence, which is a key aspect of the principle of independence of central banks for members of the European System of Central Banks. In particular, the Statute of the ESCB provides in Article 14.2 that the governors may be relieved of their functions only if they no longer fulfil the conditions or if they have committed a serious infringement, with the possibility of bringing the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Secondly, participation of representatives of third parties at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The position of the European Central Bank is that the participation of representatives of third parties is incompatible with the Treaty and the Statute. External auditor of the Bank of Slovenia as a third point. Article 27.1 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank requires the audit of the accounts of the European Central Bank and of the national central banks to be carried out by independent external auditors recommended by the Governing Council, as provided for in Articles 52 and 65 of the applicable law. The proposed amendment is therefore incompatible with Article 27.1 of the Statute of the ECB as the audit must be carried out on a non-political, independent and purely professional basis. The proposed amendment to the law of all three requirements does not comply. Fourthly, reporting Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly and confidentiality of information. The law should contain appropriate safeguards to ensure the following. The reporting obligations shall not prejudice the independence of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The Special Statute of Governors in their function as members of the ECB's decision-making bodies must be fully respected. Confidentiality requirements resulting from the Statute of the ESCB must be taken into account. So, such as reading the opinion of the European Central Bank, the latter gave a negative opinion on every single substance of the bill. I reiterate that the European Central Bank, which is part of the Bank of Slovenia, which must fully comply with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, has given its full negative opinion on the proposed amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act. I do not know whether only Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members feel that it would be most appropriate to withdraw such a law from consideration? Maybe just thinking. A group of unrelated Members cannot support such a proposal, nor is it conditional. We will rely entirely on the opinion of the European Central Bank. We will also rely on the Government's view, which is similar, but only a little more precisely determines why it is not acceptable and what is not compatible. We believe that in the spirit of ensuring the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its organs, the Governor and the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, and in particular in the light of the principle of responsible functioning of the public institutions and their bodies, you will not support the other parliamentary groups of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following parliamentary position is the parliamentary position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleagues! The fact that the Slovenian bank hole was largely caused by the influence of banking policies and policies is more or less a fact, which makes it more difficult to understand the proposal for this change, which brings nothing more than strengthening the impact of policy in the banking system. The Bank of Slovenia and its members are and must remain independent. From this point of view, the proposal for a two-thirds majority of Members to elect the Governor and Vice-Governors is a good proposal, which is the only good proposal in this bill. One key novelty is, of course, linked to bank secrecy or the abolition of the bank. The proposer shall propose this in this mandate for the second or third time. Interestingly, at a time when they were alone in the government coalition and a key banking legislation was adopted, both the Banking Act and the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, such proposals were not found in the draft laws. Where did this duplicity come from? From this we can conclude that the proposaler is in fact not about increasing transparency, but mainly about the political circus in the National Assembly, where they advocate the disclosure of the data and quietly hold figs in their pocket so that it does not happen. And apparently they also held figs in their pocket when we voted and voted in the National Council on a proposal from the National Gazette on the bad credits transferred to the Banks Claims Management Company. As a result, today the public can judge whether the larger bank hole was caused by left tycoons or right - hand bells. And clearly, there is only one thing, we have neither in the Civil Gazette nor in the other. While the National Assembly may investigate certain suspicions of abuse of political influence, access to fully all bank data, as proposed by the proposer, goes far beyond those frameworks. In order to clarify once and for all what happened in the banking system and where this large bank hole originated, a public investigation should be carried out in Slovenia following the Icelandic model. However, we have already tabled a bill in the National Assembly, which in a much more meaningful way opens those credit maps that have remained in the banks of the aid received, but it is likely that they have helped to create a bank hole. I therefore appeal to the President of the National Assembly again today to ensure that conditions allow this law to continue its legislative path as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! By entering the euro area, the Bank of Slovenia has become part of the Eurosystem as one of the national central banks and has transferred the remittances for the management of monetary policy at the same time. Since then, decisions for Slovenia have been taken centrally at the European Central Bank and implemented through national central banks. The work of the Bank of Slovenia is thus largely defined by the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. The drafter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia has thus tabled several amendments concerning the reporting of our national bank to the National Assembly, regarding the appointment of an external auditor to determine the performance of the functions, regarding the possibility of the participation of an opposition member at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, regarding the appointment of the Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the handling of confidential information in conjunction with the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If I start at the beginning. The interaction of data exchange between our central bank, Banka Slovenije, is also modest in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. While we cooperate with different state institutions through working bodies and receive relevant macroeconomic data, Banka Slovenije representatives rarely engage in such discussions. In view of the dictatorship in the law of major obstacles for Banka Slovenije to report to the National Assembly, even outside the regular framework and even more in detail, we do not see. The fact that members of the Council of Banka Slovenije determine their own rights from a working relationship is also somewhat unusual and creates a certain moral risk. In any event, the determination of these rights should be clearly regulated and, above all, all rights should be made publicly and transparently available to the public. After all, the Central Bank of Slovenia, despite its independence, is owned by citizens and citizens. The meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia are open to the participation of the Finance Minister and the representative of the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy. The bill also provides for the possibility of an opposition member of the National Assembly being present, of course without the right to vote. We do not see any problems in this either, as this is seen as a framework for increasing democraticism and equal treatment of political positions. However, it is necessary to determine how the opposition representative will be elected. One possibility is to be identified by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where it has an ever-increasing majority of the opposition. Then there's the appointment of governors and vice-governors. That two consecutive mandates are sufficient after six years, we also assess in the Slovenian People's Party. During this time, individual Banka Slovenije officials can carry out their plans and all planned projects. A longer period may already lead to certain risks in the field of efficiency and transparency of the functioning of the institution, and we do not have any major problems with this proposal concerning the limitation of mandates. A much more problematic proposal is the possibility of recalling. The fact that Banka Slovenije's leadership must not be linked to every political situation, in particular because of the importance of the work in maintaining the financial stability of the country, is likely to be clear. In order to enable the President of the Republic to call off the Governor or any of the other members of the Bank's Council, in the middle of the mandate, it is linked to a significant risk that this could give rise to some pressure on the independence of that body. However, it is true that the grossly poor work of an individual member of the Bank's Council should be sanctioned in one way or another, but this should be regulated at the level of the European Central Bank and the possibilities for its intervention. It is very similar with the appointment and discharge of directors and deputy directors of individual departments in Banka Slovenije. In order to change the governor, the new staffing arrangement is also somewhat unusual. However, the complete absence also has an impact on the choice of co-workers. That is why a different path needs to be found. It may be that the management of individual departments would also be linked to a certain term of office and a new invitation to tender would be issued after that period, which, of course, could also be applied to by existing directors. Of course, this mandate must not coincide with the mandate of the Governor and Vice-Governors. And for the rest of it, it's about protecting confidential bank records. In this regard, we have also had serious controversy here in Parliament, and although we fully understand the importance of banking secrecy for the functioning of the financial system itself, in the last bank break that Slovenia has experienced, we would not have had to save banks with billions of euros – within banks. There are also certain incompetences and criminal acts. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that as long as the problems of banks are solved by means of taxpayers, there is a public interest in banking secrecy. Of course, this is an exceptional situation, but according to the current state of affairs, disclosures are necessary. However, we must not accept any changes where the National Assembly and the public would be involved in the confidentiality of data from private and normally functioning banks in Slovenia. This is just a European standard that we can't just break. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party in this area we make a very clear distinction. In the case of data, what has happened in the past and which has also led to the necessity of State intervention, banking secrecy is currently an obstacle to clarifying the situation. While in advance banking secrecy must be taken into account and, of course, respected. To conclude, with some amendments to the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we have no problems, but there are also a number of things that should be discussed more widely, especially because they are opposed by the European Central Bank as the central supervisory authority of the European Union in this area. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law in the first reading, but there will be a further need to determine which solutions are acceptable and which solutions are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, present! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on the Bank of Slovenia tabled by a group of fellow Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The supplements cited by the applicant are, in our view, inadequate, both in terms of national legislation and European rules and in respect of mutual contractual obligations of banking. As we note, the proposed supplements violate national and European legal order, in particular in the part relating to the effective, independent and professional performance of the tasks of the national banking regulator. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we consider the proposed solutions to be inappropriate, but above all they do not contribute to the more transparent and democratic functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. In addition, we do not increase this proposal by making such amendments, but even less by ensuring the constitutionally defined institutional independence of the central bank. The government's opinion on this proposal is negative. In the opinion of the European Central Bank, too, it is a great deal of criticism, even within the framework of the general principle, namely: the personal independence of the Authority. Thus, in the DeSUS Group, we consider that the proposal is inappropriate. Of course, we are aware that certain databases are confidential and thus inaccessible to the public. We believe that this is the case in the Group of Members. And the fact is that Banka Slovenije is a constitutionally and legally established independent institution, which also operates with such basic data, which is classified as confidential. The demand for these things seems to go into some people's noses. And the bottom line is that only some have access to the most classified databases. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that Banka Slovenije already knows what information can be transmitted to the public, who is responsible for the business, whose audit houses carry out an audit of the business, who determines the incompatibilities of the performance of the function, who reports to our house and what the content of the report is, who has jurisdiction in the event of the dismissal of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and who participates in the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Let me just remind myself that in this institution, according to the National Assembly, we must be aware that data acquisition is carried out on the basis of legal provisions and, at the banking level, in addition, on the basis of respect for the entire banking regulation, absolutely also within the framework of European criteria, since our central bank is a member of the European Central Bank. In the DeSUS Group we reject this amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the best and easiest thing to do is to say: we reject, the law is not suitable for further consideration, the government opposes, the European Central Bank opposes, we must not touch banking secrecy and so on. But, ladies and gentlemen, some of them, in the name of banking secrecy, which is the basic postulate of banking, drilled a bank hole of about 5 billion. Five billion! And now that I've heard some opinions – I can't argue with this moment – it seems to me that it's only a matter of time before bank hole drills are declared national heroes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Banka Slovenije Act, is the central institution responsible for overseeing the banking system. The situation in Slovenian banking, where almost 5 billion bank holes have occurred, has shown that supervision of the banking system has been insufficient in recent years and that more stringent supervisory mechanisms need to be put in place in this area with additional supervisory powers. In this direction, two amendments to the Banking Act were adopted last year, which significantly increased the powers and powers of the Bank of Slovenia in cases of major irregularities in the operation of banks. It is also necessary to establish a legal basis for the greater responsibility of the supervisor, namely Banka Slovenije. Under the current rules, neither the Governor nor the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia can be called to account for their abandonment of the mandatory supervision of business banks or cannot be relieved of their functions prematurely for this reason. This bill, the so-called parliamentary law, aims to improve something in the area of banking supervision. Why? Because people, citizens and citizens, on the sidewalk and here before and before this building ask us what we are going to do — or on us — to the National Assembly, they point to us with our finger that we are to blame for the bank hole. The proposal for a Banka Slovenije Act therefore proposed solutions in this direction that would allow greater transparency in the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia and greater responsibility of the Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. One of the proposed innovations is the possibility of the participation of a representative of the National Assembly, specifically the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, of course without the possibility of voting. Another important novelty is the qualified majority of the National Assembly, which is required to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the possibility of early discharge of the Governor and members of the Bank of Slovenia, for which a two-thirds majority of the members of the National Assembly are also required. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the draft law in the first reading, because we believe that the area of supervision of the banking system is crucial for the exit from the current economic and financial crisis, and we believe that everything must be done to ensure that there is no new bank hole and, as a result, the new necessary recapitalisation of banks with tax money. The emphasis on the responsibilities of supervisors is therefore quite appropriate, as we believe that the creation of a bank hole was largely due to the lack of supervision and action of the Bank of Slovenia on business banks in the past, in particular on systemic state banks. However, we will, of course, support the amendments to this law, which follow the opinion of the European Central Bank on this bill. In fact, the European Central Bank forwarded its opinion to the content of the law and did not fully support or support certain legal solutions. Some legal solutions. Because they do not comply with the Statute of the European Central Bank. But that is why there is now a public debate, so we have a first reading and that is why we will also examine the report of the European Central Bank in more detail and try to address this proposal for a law on the home working body with our votes to remedy the bill in the direction of the recommendations of the European Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, he shall apply to the word on behalf of the proposer of magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I thank the representatives of all the parliamentary groups for their opinions, particularly those who have not expressed a negative opinion, because I believe that the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is somehow necessary. Required due to the specificity of the financial and banking system. Essentially because the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia has repaired the banking system – it has begun to recover it with tax money, has not completed it and Banka Slovenije has a very large role to play. The Bank of Slovenia is the one that stipulates that a particular bank should be recapitalised and therefore invites the owner to do so, and in this case the owner is the country – in fact all Slovenian banks are almost supported and this is tax money and liability for taxpayer money. Private banks were also saved by tax money, including Factor Bank and Probank, and were saved by tax money. There was some consolidation of these two banks, so they still exist, but this tax money can also be poured into private pockets. I am surprised, of course, that some parties assume greater responsibility for Members and Members, if they assume greater responsibility for the National Assembly, especially in controlling the use of taxpayers' money, for some dependency. They say the Bank of Slovenia must be independent. However, in their view, the supervision of the National Assembly means dependence. No, Banka Slovenije must be responsible and Banka Slovenije must also be responsible when deciding on the solutions relating to tax money. The supervision of the National Assembly over the Bank of Slovenia is not unusual. And an increase in this control, which is essentially the spirit of this law, is justified. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be responsible for each euro for taxpayers, because tax money is spent on the basis of decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, based on decisions of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, in which the governors, the vice-governors, sit. Several people, less than ten people in Banka Slovenije, decide how tax money will be spent. And we say that because we want more responsibility for these people, the Bank of Slovenia will therefore be dependent on politics. The National Assembly is, of course, a political body, because in Slovenia we have a democratic political system where more than one party is possible in the last 20 years. But the fact that this responsibility of the National Assembly is greater does not excuse the fact that if there is greater responsibility, the Bank of Slovenia will not be independent. I don't see any connection here. And, of course, since the Bank of Slovenia is so independent, it may also be because it is so independent, even slightly more irresponsible, because it did not point out expansionist monetary policy in 2004, 2007 and 2008 – and this was the task of Banka Slovenije this was not the task of the Government, the Government does not have the authority to control that it gives opinions that whatever influences the Bank of Slovenia has the National Assembly and the National Assembly is the one to which the Bank of Slovenia must also report. However, these reports are somewhat colorful. Indeed, these reports did not reflect the content itself, the very problems which Slovenia has faced since 2008 when the financial crisis arose. A few months before the outbreak of the financial crisis, the then Governor of Banka Slovenije said in public that the system is completely safe for us, that it is completely stable, that everything is fine and that there are no problems. And then the financial crisis broke out, and then there was a little bit of fraud, and there wasn't enough information from the Bank of Slovenia, including the National Assembly, even in all the reports, and in the end, the taxpayers paid 6 billion euros for the banking system. And it's not over. Ladies and gentlemen, I see no reason here for us not to increase the control of the Bank of Slovenia. Nor is the opinion of the European Central Bank entirely negative and does it fully say whether something is good or something is bad. It points exclusively to the Statute of the European Central Bank and to the legislation in force. What some are saying is that this is a completely negative opinion, there is no negative word in this opinion. However, there is a content that draws attention to certain articles of the Statute which reminds us of certain articles of European law. And if in Slovenia we paid the billions we put in banks, we did it by borrowing. There was no other way we could have done this than if we had committed ourselves. And the government of Alenka Bratušek owed 11 billion and 900 million. At a time when it exists. I don't know what would happen if I kept going. Or we'd be in debt for 15 billion or 20 billion. That's actually why it's good that it doesn't exist anymore. Good for the taxpayers. When we talk about public debt, we are talking about the fact that this public debt is at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of young people. In 2014, we will only pay interest of 1.2 billion to repay this public debt, plus 4 billion or good 3 billion and half annuity in addition to interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that on this basis, if the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia have such consequences for taxpayers, greater control is necessary. We're talking about public debt, and some of you are talking about gross external debt. The difference is that the gross external debt — those who say that Janez Janša’s government is responsible for gross external debt — is never to say what is gross external debt — consists of debt, debt, and debt. And now tell me, which government is responsible for people's loans? Which government is responsible for lending the economy? No government. Unless any government thinks it has to regulate what kind of credit a natural person will get or what kind of credit a company will get. And that's what happened when the phone calls were, and they said, "Give this one and this credit to this company and this one." However, we want to prevent this from happening with the greater control that the National Assembly will have. And if in 2004, 2008 there was a gross external debt, then this is not the responsibility of any government. Whenever such a gross external debt arose, no government, left or right would be responsible. And neither the left nor the right are responsible, nor today if people are taking credit, if the economy is taking credit, and if the banks are giving them, of course. No government is responsible for this and has no authority to regulate it. And this is pure deception when it is said that during that period the government of Janez Janš had such an increase in gross external debt. Who is responsible for this gross external debt? Bank of Slovenia. Since Banka Slovenije can lead either an expansionist monetary policy or a restrictive monetary policy. Of course, most decisions are made today in Frankfurt at the European Central Bank, but it is also Banka Slovenije that can influence what credit policy will be. With various mechanisms it can influence business banks and Banka Slovenije knows that Banka Slovenije works. If she didn't do it during that period, it's her responsibility. This is not the responsibility of the government of Janez Janša because he has no authority. And all the rest of what's said here is pure deception. And just so that the 2004 and 2008 policies do not repeat themselves, these amendments would be prevented. This would also increase the responsibility of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly and, of course, to the fact that a representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances could also participate in meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. And what's wrong here? What's wrong here? Nothing's wrong here. Even today, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance could sit at this meeting and if the opposition had sat there, nothing would have been completely wrong. But you'd get the information. And since I could get the data, I could warn Banka Slovenije about what was doing wrong and I could know what was actually going on there. Because the opposition is the one who controls the government. Always. No matter who's in the government. If we continue to talk about reducing bank secrecy slightly – but banking secrecy in those cases where the state actually intervenes with the measures in the bank, this means that the bank is not doing well to manage its assets poorly – then of course we would make Banka Slovenije's responsibility and business more transparent. More transparent is that people, taxpayers know what their money is spent on. For what is the money borrowed from the government and for which taxpayers have to pay interest? I don't understand what's wrong here. Six billion go to banks and six billion are hidden. We are not talking about private banks in this amendment, but we are not talking about whether this would apply to private banks. Nor do we say that this would apply to those banks that do not receive State aid. However, if someone is receiving State aid, it is, of course, completely transparent that it is necessary to know. Citizens and citizens have the right to know. And here we are their representatives and some political parties deny themselves, who as their representatives say: we do not want to know who is responsible, we do not want to know what this money is spent on. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, there's something illogical here. Or this banking sector, this banking lobby is so powerful that it has a real impact, not directly, but it can have an indirect impact on Members and Members, even in this national council, that it simply does not allow people to know through Members and Members. They knew where their money was going. And we're here to tell people what their money is spent on, who's responsible, who's spent taxpayers' money, and what's worse, if it had to be owed and paid interest. This is not about duality, and with no fig in his pocket does the Slovenian Democratic Party work. The Slovenian Democratic Party has demanded transparency. Transparency also in relation to the transfer of claims of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. About that, too. Three times it has been pointed out that we have requested this and three times it has actually been rejected. If we are talking about individual laws or articles of laws – this is not the case, I am not commenting on a single vote now or anyhow, of course you can, but we have already proposed three proposals on banking secrecy in this National Assembly. That's why we're here. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the law be re-examined in conjunction with the opinion of the European Central Bank - once again, the word negative opinion is not included in the document sent by the European Central Bank - to agree on measures based on this study, to amend the Bank of Slovenia Act, in particular with a view to increasing accountability, to increase transparency where possible and, of course, to ensure greater responsibility for governors and vice-governors. And that not only does the governor have a greater opportunity, but he has more power to run the central bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As the first to speak from the Members, the Magi has been declared. Stanko Stepichnik. He's quitting. Let's move on. Since there are quite a few cancellations, the next is Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker! First of all, I must point out that we must be precise about the documents signed by the President of the European Central Bank, in this case Mr Mario Draghi. That we have to be exact. I read this report, these comments, the general comments and I do not see anywhere that Mr Mario Draghi would write an extraordinary and only negative opinion on the proposal for a bill we are considering today. Because then I can only read the first sentence and say, "The European Central Bank generally welcomes the proposal of the law, as it strengthens the tools and procedures available to the Bank of Slovenia for the successful reorganisation of banks in difficulty." Nor would it be right to make a dot here, to read the entire report received or received by the Government or Minister Chufer from the President of the European Central Bank. I think that we have every opportunity in today's debate and then – if we do the law, of course, New Slovenia, to turn on the green light for further consideration – on the parent's working body to remedy any irregularities or inconsistencies with the statutes of the European Central Bank which the European Central Bank has found in this bill. Strengthening supervision of the banking system is, of course, necessary, mainly because in Slovenia, as in Sri Lanka, Kenya, Syria, Ethiopia and Cuba, the country has the largest ownership of banks. Maximum. Let's leave those private banks with us. Who, then, is the one here, if not the National Assembly, who, through legislation, determines effective control of the banking system? That this has been bad so far is the fact that the result is a large bank hole, which with five billion, I say that, for now, with only five billion, it has hit taxpayers. Unfortunately, the banking union is not working yet. Unfortunately. With 1. 1. 2015 is intended to be established and built solely to protect taxpayers in the resolution of bank problems. The Banking Union, as we know, is based on three pillars. The first pillar is a single control system, the second pillar is a single bank resolution system, without hitting taxpayers, and the third pillar of the banking union is a single deposit guarantee system. Unfortunately, we don't have it yet, and so we need to do everything we can to ensure that the new bank hole doesn't happen again in a short time. In a way, I also have to say, I don't know how many times it surprises me, and in a way also grieves so many false statements and so many unprofessional statements, when the government, where we were also a coalition partner, in the 2004-2008 mandate is clear that that government is responsible for a huge increase in external gross debt. That's unacceptable, that's misleading, and that's lies. These are lies. Anyone who had the opportunity to listen to the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, exactly during that period, to Mr Mitja Gaspari, who, as far as I know, is not a Christian Democrat, said that the Bank of Slovenia did not actually have the instruments to curb the large credit expansion of business banks. She wanted banks to form so-called dynamic reservations, and Mr Gaspari said that this had been prevented by the European Commission and some international audit houses. I think he mentioned the Pricewaterhouse Coopers Auditorium. Yes, of course, because you can't actually prevent a company, in this case a bank, from carrying out its core business, its core activity. How are you gonna stop the bank from lending? But there were times when money was cheap when banks were actually throwing money at natural persons and also for companies and other entities. And the government couldn't act at the time, it had no instruments, it couldn't act. I stand for this statement with all my responsibility. Of course, many things can turn around today, and the truth can quickly turn to a lie, and some simply fit to spread a lie. Last time we had a finance minister who received an outstanding European recognition, that was Dr. Andrej Bajuk, and many experts say he has been the best finance minister in Slovenia so far. So that the banking system doesn't work as it should, there's data that says that now that we've patched up the bank, banks in the first quarter of this year gave less credit to the economy than they did in last quarter. What's the logic here? Therefore, banks do not carry out their basic mission at this time, they do not financially monitor companies, so we have a situation that Slovenia has re-classified on the competitiveness scale even lower than last year. It also fell on the competitiveness scale and among the 60 countries assessed by the Swiss Institute for Management Development, Slovenia landed at 55 places, which means three more places below last year. This analysis of the Institute was published today. I regret that on the very day of Slovenian diplomacy. I am really sorry that such a negative analysis comes, unfortunately negative, right on, we could say in some way a holiday, because today, on May 22, 1992, Slovenia was accepted into the United Nations Organization. But let's just leave it. What hurts me is this: while Eastern Europe is rapidly improving its global competitiveness, Slovenia is losing it – for what? Clearly, due to public finances, rapidly increasing debt and business inefficiency. We all know that. Are we doing something to eliminate the causes of competition on Slovenia’s competitiveness scale? Or do we do something about it? Perhaps this bill, which would increase control over the banking system, is a contribution to the fact that, as we say, we would not have a bank hole again. We have no guarantees, ladies and gentlemen, that the new bank hole is no longer emerging. I have asked this question several times to the various interrogators on this committee, whether you are guaranteeing us, Mr President of the Administration or President of the Supervisory Board or Vice-Governor responsible for overseeing the banks, and in fact no one could guarantee that the new bank hole is not already coming. I think a well-intentioned approach, a study approach to this bill, is needed. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the recommendations and comments of the European Central Bank, and I believe that in the second reading we can improve the text, that it will also be acceptable to the European Central Bank and will certainly have a positive effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u90	Caught off guard, Madam Vice President. A lively debate. In principle, I can agree that, in fact, the European Central Bank has not fully assessed all the solutions in this law as inappropriate, but a fundamental intention – an act of independence which the applicants call more responsible reporting to the National Assembly – it has assessed as such. I think that Banka Slovenije should be protected as an institution, because its independence is not just conceived for no reason, but in order to ensure the optimal monetary, monetary policy of the Bank of Slovenia as a member of the Eurosystem in Slovenia as a whole. Previously, in the position of the Group of Members, we have actually been building an experiment that we see in the background of this law, namely a tendency to interpret responsibility. The Bank of Slovenia appears to be the one they aim at in the Slovenian Democratic Party when they talk about the responsibility for what happened in the Slovenian banking system. My personal opinion is that the Bank of Slovenia is certainly not without responsibility. Nevertheless, it can be concluded that even in those years, they have issued more warnings, generally with milder measures, in order to avoid such drastic overheating of the economy and such high exposure to banks. We can agree that from today's perspective all these measures, conclusions, warnings from the Bank of Slovenia are inappropriate, far too small, but let's look at this in the context of that time. It is true that several valued economists already in 2005, 2006, 2007 pointed to overheating the Slovenian economy, creating a dangerous balloon that will break. But the context, the spirit of time, has been – let’s commit ourselves, invest heavily, and privatize. Today, when we look at the extent of poor investment, and we know that it comes from some of the real estate market, some of the overblown, large construction investments, some of it from privatisation, only a small part of it comes from the fact that, at that time, companies that understood that they needed to strengthen their ability and invest in development were investing in research and development as well, in strengthening their competitiveness. In the event of privatisation, it is important to say that it is not only the bank that has given the loan for tacwonisation that is responsible for privatisation. It is also the responsibility of the State which sold this property to obviously inappropriate owners. I understand and share the anger that banks have given loans in an irresponsible way with poor insurance. But I am even more angry that state representatives and state fund managers have sold state property to inappropriate owners without money. Who? Yes, the managers of these companies, which we know in Slovenia under popular terms of tycoons. And who was selling this property back then? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was obviously very involved in this process, judging from that meeting in the office of the President of the Government dedicated to Mercator, Lashke, Del, Dinner, but remember that this property was then also sold by state fund managers. Directly. They are signed under contracts for the sale of state shares in enterprises that have been privatised or tacunaised. You want signatures? I know about the two who were in that period and are also in the immediate vicinity of the Slovenian Democratic Party today. My colleague Marko Pogačnik was the president of the board of directors of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The second is Tomaž Toplak, who was president of the Capital Society Board. I hope you don't cut the popcorn with your people. I believe that you have both done your job with the best of intentions, but from today's point of view it is obvious that this has not shown the care that I would require first in every sale of state property. And that's the question of who you're selling to. Since it is not just a matter of buying, it is also a question of whether the company gets a good owner, who will continue to invest in this company, develop it, provide employment, and, first of all, I would certainly like to know whether I am talking to a buyer who does not actually have money. Who only buys property because he has opened friendly bank lines of access to favourable and unsecured loans. When we talk about the responsibility for what happened in Slovenia, we probably also need to shed light on this aspect. But those who fear responsibility, and those who know that they are also due to their political connections, when I deduct the management of completely wrong economic policies, deep down in this, are looking for the culprit, according to the well-known principle that "Take the thief!" I yelled at my dad first. And for that period, of course, it is a preparatory institution that has its own responsibility, but it does not bear all the blame – the Bank of Slovenia. And this is one of my disappointments about this government, after virtually all the political forces in this Parliament have advocated that Slovenia establish a public investigation based on an Icelandic model with an independent investigator from another country. With a simple clear law that gave this independent public investigation all the necessary powers to focus this investigation in the way it must be carried out. You know, the disclosures of bank secrecy that you like to refer to and propose don't ultimately contribute to anything other than further destabilising the banking system and further stifling the trust of those, businesses and people who have their money in these banks. By the way, isn't your candidate for European Commission Chief Jean Claude Juncker? Wasn't he practically 20 years old the president of the government of the state, who, by the way, was a tax oasis? Ask yourself, is bank secrecy secured in Luxembourg? Very highly insured because they're building their kind of economy right on getting bank deposits from around the world. And that's why they understand why they protect bank secrecy. I therefore suggest that the new government – because I doubt that this Parliament will carry out what we have all actually supported to come to an independent public inquiry – that a new Parliamentary call and a new government depoliticize the issue of responsibility and put it into those professional institutions, armed them with all knowledge, personnel and powers to bring this thing to the bottom. I am not among those who would think that what happened in Slovenia is entirely a result of crime, because we often ignore the impact of the global economic and financial crisis. The fact that the property values have fallen. And I fully believe that many bankers have granted loans in good faith because they have granted loans to companies with the highest rating. In the years leading up to the crisis, Istrabenz had a rating of triple A – AAA. Of course, then these loans turned out to be completely different. That these companies are completely different. This issue needs to be depoliticized because I doubt that we will be in a political way, where we will come to this particular debate as soon as possible, that we are accusing you of your mistakes, you are accusing us of our mistakes, and in fact we are not going to get anywhere but that we are actually staying with each other. Meanwhile, as one of the witnesses pointed out before the parliamentary commission of inquiry, the National Investigation Office does not have a single expert in banking or an expert in corporate governance. And this is where knowledge is lacking. If we really have the good will to explore what has happened in Slovenia in the banking system, it is necessary to give these professional institutions weapons to come to conclusions and, on the basis of this, to prosecute crimes that are still taking place, but would probably be more effective if they were given better powers and, in particular, resources to provide the personnel they need in such an efficient work. Yeah, but the chase's going on. Sometimes this seems to be dramatic even when very unpleasant information comes to the public about what the SDS party at the top of the time knew, let's also say about the 60 million jobs of the New Maribor Credit Bank in Croatia. But in order not to refer to newspaper sources, this law must be rejected, safeguarded the independence and integrity of the Bank of Slovenia, the institution itself. And it is also an absolute responsibility today to call those who performed in her name [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the warrants. [[…]] However, it would be good for us to call to account the economic policy holders who proved to be inappropriate and those economic politicians at that time had more than enough warning from the mouth of good Slovenian economists and also comparisons on what is happening in the world and how the global economy is overheating to draw the hand brake.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this marriage would be a good support. Why? In Parliament, of course, we all speak, or there are many speeches without numbers. Since I have a natural education, I only believe numbers, and that's right. The numbers need to be looked at. The Swiss Institute for Management Development published results on 60 countries in the world, how competitive they are and where they reach. Slovenia was ranked 55th among 60 countries, we were somewhere in 35 5 years ago. Compared to last year's scale, we have reversed three cities, which is, of course, contrary to the allegations made by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, that Slovenia's cost competitiveness has improved and that the competitiveness of Slovenia is finally positive. And Umar is another such institution as Banka Slovenije, which does not perform its task. If we go to look 10 years ago, there are their predictions, their forecasts, in fact, as if you were looking for the dead behind the curve — worthless. In the general assessment of the economic environment, we are in 52nd place between 60 countries, and this city is repairing our exports. An even more clairvoyant picture shows an assessment of the domestic economic environment, because only two other countries assessed received a worse estimate, which means that we are among the 60 countries in 57th place. But most of all, we have fallen into an evaluation of the efficiency of the government and public administration, where we turned from last year's 53rd city to 56th place. According to the Institute's assessment, we have the worst public finances among all the countries assessed. This, of course, raises the question of what the government and such a large public administration do with taxpayers' money, and the effectiveness of these is on the tail among the other countries. The estimates also show that the situation of foreign investment, employment of foreign professionals, unemployment, taxes and, as I have already said, budgetary deficits and public debt have deteriorated. This law is the third in two days, which is actually more seriously interfering with the so-called structural reforms that Slovenia will have to make if it wants to rise slowly. It is not what Ivan Vogrin says or what the proponent says, the SDS party, which, interestingly, is responsible for everything in Slovenia. She was in power for five years in 23 years, and, interestingly, she's guilty of everything. This is an interesting observation that in a total of 23 years of independent Slovenia's history, they have managed to transport everything and are responsible for everything. And I'm not an SDS lawyer, but wait, would you mind taking a look at me in the mirror? We would look in the mirror and take into account the assessments of the Swiss Institute for the Development of Management, which told us: You are not worthy to be in the European Union. That's what he told us. We'll come to 60th if we don't start adopting such laws. You know why? The current governor was a vice-governor, and when he took the governor's seat, he immediately started spitting after the former governor. This is rude conduct, even the current governor would be [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] To look in the mirror, like a lot of people. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Today or this law is primarily a test of our common ability, or we are willing to admit that Slovenia is in as poor a state as it is, and especially whether we are prepared to do something different. But when I listen to the debate, obviously this willingness is not there yet. I do not say that this proposal is ideal; it can certainly be corrected with certain amendments, but it has the right purpose. All our attempts so far to try to influence, however, to reach those who are most responsible, that with tax money we had to cover all the errors of the banking system from the past, all these attempts have failed. And the government and the coalition have always found enough reasons, in their opinion, to oppose solutions. But look at what you wrote in your reply, the respected government and coalition, as one of the reasons why you are also challenging this proposal. "It does not contain all the required ingredients referred to in Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Look. I mean, there are some procedural reasons, because, of course, there are no comparisons of how the system is regulated in three other countries, or contains, but they are not the right countries. So for hair drawn reasons why there is no good proposal to be supported, of course they only point to the fact that in Slovenia there is absolutely no willingness to change anything for the better. When we found out how much the bank hole was and how much money we were going to have to contribute to the taxpayers, there was, of course, a great deal of promise that we would find everything responsible. But look what's happening today. Do we even know anything? Do we even know anything? Besides, of course, the government is able to boast at every step of the way that it is responsible for the rehabilitation of the banking system. Of course not. For the first time, it was not because it was against a law that allowed recovery to begin and for the second time, because, for my reason, recovery was not at all done or completed. Because the point of the rescue is that banks help businesses to credit them, to contribute to economic growth. Did they really do that? None of that. None of that. And of course, if I move now to the role of Banka Slovenije, what is Banka Slovenije, why do we need it. Banka Slovenije is not some institution for which it is most important that it was set up the day that it has such a structure that it manages, but it is important what this bank does and why we have it. This bank controls our banking system or should be monitored to act well, but as it turns out, this system does not work well and does not work well. So the Bank of Slovenia, which was meant to do so, did something wrong. In 2009, Mr Kranjec, who was then governor, replied to the question of how Banka Slovenije performed its supervisory role: "With criticisms that I do not agree with my task poorly. We have complete control." So in 2009, respected when the crisis began. And when you are colleagues – colleague Frangež also mentioned this today – so critical of when all these credits were created, who are responsible, I am truly surprised that some policy as experienced as Mr Frangež, a mix of legislative, executive, judicial and Bank of Slovenia powers. No government, nor the government of Alenka Bratušek, is responsible for what kind of loans are being granted. And because we mix everything that anyone does, what anyone can control with each other, we're in as confusing a state as we are. The government doesn't grant loans. The legislature, we, here in the National Assembly, don't assign credit and we don't have anything to do with it or – I am only a member of this reference – you who were here sometimes have nothing to do with it. But we are responsible for adopting laws that prevent such irregularities from happening. And that's what you don't want to do, dear fellows. You don't want to vote for laws that prevent such anomalies. And Banka Slovenije is the one who should monitor the banking system, how banks assign loans. Not every individual loan, of course, I agree with this, because we are not naive, but a system as a whole. He's not here! And that's why everything went wrong. And why such loans could have been granted and provided such insurance in banks as it seemed that Mr Frangež said that people who did not have money could have been credited for buying their own company. At least two reasons for that. The first reason is the bad legislation that allowed by the Company Act, and this legislation has been adopted by the National Assembly so that such things can be done at all. And secondly, the bank or those responsible in the bank that gave credit on the basis of zero collateral. And today we're here where we are, and we can't fix things back. But we can fix them in advance. But for once, we can stop talking about rights. About the rights of banks to have the same autonomy as they have. About the rights that no one interferes with the work of the Bank of Slovenia. Not least about the rights to have the wages they have. But let's ask ourselves again, and give these rights, the endlessly high and the great ones you have, even answer. No, we do not do this in any area, nor in this banking area. And, of course, that's probably why we're in 55th place, three other places as bad as we were last year, with regard to the country's assessment as a whole. What are we going to comment on? Actually, we have nothing to comment on. These comments that I read in the newspapers – "... we actually expected, even good that it is not worse......" Please! And what did we do to make it better? Yes, of course, the government of Alenka Bratušek does not have much to do with these loans and the rehabilitation of the banking system and I do not really resent it. But I resent that she did not do on the other hand what the Government should do — these are the structural reforms that we are always talking about. But nothing was done in this other area. That we're in charge of all the money we need so we can pour it into the banking system, is that our success? Is that our success? Of course not, but the government showed it that way. This is a very, very sad story. However, we could turn this story into a success if we followed two parallel paths and, in addition to solving the situation from the past, did something to make it different. But we have not changed our thinking or changed it. And until they do, the story will repeat itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u95	Mrs Tomc, let me say that we are under the Bank of Slovenia Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, but I'm surprised at that. Do you know why we even proposed this marriage? The reason we proposed it is, of course, the state in which we are today. And I'm describing this condition. If you can't hear him and it hurts you in the ears, yes, so much worse. And as long as we're blinded, we're fine. Listen to what the government representatives said: because everything is fine, because there is nothing wrong, the Bank of Slovenia Act – or whatever it is called – is fine, nothing has to change it. We've been saying this for a while. I'm actually interested in where this story can go. Where can this story go? But I fear for the sake of the people that this story will not go very far and that we, us, people will pay for it all. This blinding with the real situation we have in Slovenia is extremely dangerous and we do it all the time, and on the other hand we boast of how good we have done to raise our debts and taxes. I have read very carefully this opinion of the government, which has been prepared in response to the proposal of the law. I mean, there's all these conflicting thoughts and statements. On the one hand, the Bank of Slovenia Act, which is now in force in accordance with the principles of the European Union, but on the other hand, is not going to compare the local level with the system in the European Union and such anomalies, is constantly emerging here. Nor does the government understand or understand the separation between individual branches of government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this applies to all of us — for all the mistakes that have occurred in this country, the public accuses us. It's the MPs' fault. We're all Members of Parliament's fault. But he doesn't. Surely we are responsible for the fact that the legislation is bad, certainly. But for some other things, such as what was actually happening in the banking system, why Banka Slovenije did not react when she was supposed to, but Banka Slovenije is responsible. However, we are, of course, responsible for establishing legislation that will call those who have not done so to account, and that is exactly what we are proposing today. See if the term of office of a governor, with all due respect, can be a fantastic governor, but the governor's term is six years. And you say 12 years of the governor's mandate is not enough, look, it can, I don't know, maybe as much as the president of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, that'll be the best. Lifetime. He almost calls himself a self-sustainer. Why wouldn't the opposition have a representative in the world of the bank? Why wouldn't I have one? There is always a representative of the opposition in the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. If someone from the Finance Committee can be a representative of the coalition, which he always is, then someone from the Public Finance Supervisory Commission can probably be a representative of the opposition and the matter is balanced. No, but that's not possible. And, of course, we would like to point out that governments are changing, coalitions and opposition are changing, and this is not a solution that just suits us right now – one way or another, that is a solution now for three days – that is a solution for all. And that's a solution that's healthy for one and the other to fit in a little bit better for the other. But this is a healthy solution, which, of course, the current coalition cannot agree with. To conclude, everything is not fine, not in the banking system, not in our country. But of course we still blind ourselves that it is and we are still blind, that we are the best, that we follow the right path and that our economy recovers. Everyone around us, all the data, and all the foreign institutions are screaming, "Wake up." But we're still passing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next in the debate. Let me also say who the next panellists are, because there have been some changes in the applications. The next, with Mr Jerovsk, is Mr Bojan Starman, then Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Marko Pavlišič, then Mag. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the Government and the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The law we have proposed is, as my spokeswoman has said, a reaction to the situation that is bad in this country. And let me not say, the bill is also an attempt to help the current governor, who has little time in his post, who is now clearly aware of and after these reactions, what is happening in this country, is aware that the Bank of Slovenia is a small carrier in a small bay, which is impossible to turn quickly. Where all services work after inertia and, of course, defend their inactivity in previous mandates when they have not performed their functions as regulator. And I hope the governor wants this help from the National Assembly. I, who's not an economist like Romana Tomc, and I don't get to know these things that way, I'm glad that she described the situation in such a fantastic way in front of me. I am even more pleased that she will be our Member of the European Parliament. And I hope that as many Slovenians as possible listened to her debate. Because it is extremely important that we also have an acquaintance who can explain with such simple words the situation that we have such a representative in the European Parliament, because the European Parliament will take decisions on joint bank supervision, at least in the euro area, if not throughout the European Union. This is extremely important. And the European Members and everyone, except our coalition and our government, are aware that this monitoring is necessary. They're in other countries, too. The European Central Bank is also, in some ways, an ivory tower in which it is difficult to sow the sun. Bankers organized themselves in Europe as overcast and also in America for a certain period of time. These days, the Swiss bank admitted that it had deliberately allowed money laundering and tax evasion and paid billions of dollars in compensation. Of course, that country that has this power to force it. And our hundreds of millions lie in Swiss banks, in our banks' bank robbers' accounts and that money will not be put into damages, and they will not give up information like they were forced to do in the case of Germany, where Angela Merkel achieved that they had renounced bank secrecy and told who was laundering money through their banks. Our government, however, is the greatest fighter against at least preventing me from doing so in the future. As a result, European joint control is still important and it is important who will come to the European Parliament. I hope to say out loud that I hope that this will not be a representative of this Slovenian banking sector, these oligarchs, financial oligarchies – Mr Soltes. He's their representative, and he's going to defend it so it won't reveal itself. I hope that people will be so sober that all these games that are happening now are propaganda for him, but at the same time he doesn't know [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u99	Mr Jerovšek, I have now decided to warn you that there is no need to make an electoral campaign for the European elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u100	I know it hurts. Yeah. And we are talking about banking supervision, over the banking and financial sectors. And today, it says in the papers that Mr. Soltes can't explain any transparency from where he has some means. And that's gonna have to be accepted. It is impossible for us to do so with the current government, because the current government, even in view of the opinion and position it has written down on this law, clearly shows that the government believes that in Slovenian state banks, after the current rehabilitation and recapitalisation, when we had to give taxpayers back hundreds of millions, can start and happen again. Because if she's not ready to change anything, that big aircraft carrier called Banka Slovenije will be followed by inertia. I believe the governor wants a change, only the machinery there is one, many have cooperated and have not acted. And it was already quoted as saying that the former Governor, Mr Kranjec, was well supervised. Great. While there is a bank hole — I don't know — one third is in the banking company, there is 6 billion — over 10 billion is a bank hole. And they were very well supervised and, of course, they were particularly mapping one private bank, Factor Bank, Probanko, which they continue to do. Look, there was a lot going on in this country consciously under the left. I must say that the Institute, which was also given by Governor Arhar somewhere until 2002, to the new Rules of Procedure, that he came here at the memoranda of budget, had a speech and that in the subsequent debates on the Committees Members could have disputed his views, not directly – that was also an element of control, and that the LDS had put an end to it in its defiance. And when we propose to make it clear that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia cannot decide its own integrity and its rights. This must be clearly written, for according to the current law, as I have already said, the Bank of Slovenia is an ivory tower and the Council of the Bank, if I use this famous metaphor, are sacred cows. Intactness, perfect. No one can claim any responsibility back. And it has to end in some way, make changes, because of citizens who have already paid so much money and have been thrown into these banks and have been robbed again and again. Over and over again. And now I see that the government is doing technology, how it can be robbed further. She brought it yesterday, and we were lucky to say no. For a billion and a hundred would be a new debt and so on. I must also say, otherwise there is none of the Social Democrats in the Chamber, Mr Frangež said earlier that he would be responsible for an independent public investigation of the Icelandic model, where, by the way, the bankers were in prison and we were not even in the investigation. That he'd be up for it now. Yes, good morning, Mr. Frange. By the time Pahor's government was in effect, tycoon credits had all been realized. I know that in the next Janša government, the bank refused to provide data, although it is the owner, it could not reach the government's debt data. If even the politically close Pahor's government did not provide the bankers, why didn't you then suggest an independent investigation, Mr. Frangež, which you are now looking at in the hall at the door? Why didn't you propose then? Good morning again. In addition, most of the personnel in the banks are from the previous regime, after they went from Udba to the bank and you still have most of them in your left hand today. A large, large majority of the personnel, and if they didn't give you the data, you've obviously been pleased with it. You were pleased with that. And because of the taxpayers, we want this cover that the government considers to be absolute bank secrecy to be reprimanded. In December, too, Virant convinced us that everything would be known already in January, who had granted the loans. One thing we don't know is who signed these loans that are now at a bad bank. We don't know about one yet, but it's the end of May. And the ministers and the government are promising a pigeon on a roof that can't be caught. At least offer us a sparrow in our hand. We offer it and you reject it and you keep saying "dove" on the roof. I wonder if this revolt against these methods will have to be expressed differently in our case than in Parliament's debate. This left option is not ready for anything because this money that was stolen, stolen, this option of course controls, both in tax havens and in Swiss banks as well as via Taiwanese companies and CEOs. And this money is also funded and will fund the current campaign, don't worry. Four election campaigns. The rest of us will be poor when we can scream in the sky. Therefore, it is more than obvious that you have no interest in controlling banking in this country or in the banking sector, which Banka Slovenije should manage and not manage during the previous two governors, Gaspari and Kranjc, has restored. I'm afraid even though he has good intentions that the current governor will not be able to do so without a change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor. Would you like to do it first? Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Starman. Mag. Andrej Šircelj has the floor as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to say another reason why we proposed to amend the Bank of Slovenia Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's a very simple reason. The resolution of the banking system has not been completed. Last year we talked a lot about the rehabilitation of the banking system and also about the time when this will actually happen. In 2013, the Bank Claims Management Company became operational and, following the first proposal, following that main proposal, it was said that claims to the company would be transferred at the end of June, following the advantages to be determined on the basis of Banka Slovenije data, on the basis of data from banks, business banks and, of course, also with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance. In other words, the business banks, these banks that we have recapitalised today, should open credit banks, should determine how much guarantees there are for these loans they have made and whether there are guarantees for these loans, and on this basis these credit maps should be transferred at the end of June to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. At that time, the European Commission said: "The data is unworthy. We have to do all this again because the Bank of Slovenia has the wrong information because business banks have the wrong data." And the counselors came, the consulting houses came, they charged 22 million euros for it, and they re-evaluated the credit cards. They re-evaluated what guarantees were given for these loans, what are the value of individual projects – what are the cost of Premises on the market, what are the value of real estate from Mercury, Vegrad and so on. Finally, they found that they were worth 70%, 66% less than the Bank of Slovenia, according to business banks and so on. And Banka Slovenije played a very important role in the hard data here. The National Assembly oversees the Bank of Slovenia, reports on it, invites governors, invites vice-governors, and nothing happened. Is responsibility sufficiently well recorded in all these laws that we adopt in order for the Bank of Slovenia to appear in public, in Europe with credible data? Is the responsibility of the governor and vice-governors sufficiently well defined in the Bank of Slovenia law that we have the right data? No, ladies and gentlemen. And that's exactly what this law wants to do. Reliable data, data which will also be transparent in the European Commission, including in the European Central Bank, not only for domestic use where such or other information can be made public. Then, at the end of December, these claims were transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company and what is worrying is that not all claims were transferred, but only one third of the claims. One third of the claims from Nova Ljubljanska banka, one third of the claims from Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, while today all these banks still have bad loans and bad claims that will have to be recovered once. If we don't, the taxpayers will give the money again for the second, third, fourth recapitalisation. And the Bank of Slovenia has its role here. Banka Slovenije has this role, after all, in the law governing the operation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, and Banka Slovenije, of course, also has its representatives on the Interdepartmental Commission, which decides which banks will receive state aid, whose claims will be transferred and so on. And I don't understand why we wouldn't increase Banka Slovenije's responsibility in this direction, because the rehabilitation is not over, because, after all, all the banks have not yet been included in the rehabilitation. After all, two or three days ago, we found out that we were going to give another 500 million to the Bank, because, of course, the government wanted to make a commitment to give another 150 million to the Bank, and we don't even know where we are in this recovery. We don't even know how much money will have to be invested in the bank to fix the banking system. Whether one bank in Slovenia will go bankrupt once or all banks – Probanka as we already have, and Factor Banka, all private banks and so on. I don't understand what the purpose is. Stability of the banking and financial system. I think that if one small bank goes to Slovenia for mushrooms, the financial and banking system will be even more stable if they operate poorly. The question is, how long will taxpayers be willing to pay for the mistakes and bad decisions of bankers? And also those who should be monitoring these bankers. Because your failure to do something means that you are just as responsible and that control is, of course, bad. If we are talking about banks lending and that so many and so many companies have been sold over a period of time – as Mr Frangež also says and mentions the Court and Kad, and so on – there would be no tycoons if there were no credits and there were loans given by the bankers, that is perfectly clear. These bankers are supervised by the Bank of Slovenia. And we want to increase the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia in order to better control business banks. The story is completely simple. Of course, I don't understand coalition parties that they can't agree to this. In order to draw attention to formalities in different ways, they draw attention to the ECB’s views which they interpret in their own way. Here, a colleague of Horvat has read the first sentence of how the ECB welcomes greater supervision of banks. We can only read this sentence and the matter will be perfectly interpreted. However, we also want to present the content in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the way it is. The question is, how long will this story go on? The question is, when will the next recovery of the banking system take place? Some say that it will be necessary to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank in two or three years' time, mainly because nothing is actually done in management and nothing is done in management. And here, in order for the National Assembly to play a greater role in this, I see no problem. The National Assembly supervises the Government, the National Assembly supervises in particular some other institutions such as the SOD, which proposes its annual reports, then proposes annual reports to various audit agencies and so on. And by putting ourselves under the responsibility of Members and Members of the National Assembly, so that we have a better financial system, so that we have healthier banks, since the supervisory institution will monitor them better, there is nothing wrong. This is without prejudice to the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Is the Bank of Slovenia not independent because we are in control today? That bank is independent. And the additional control, given the fact that we have more and more state banks in Slovenia, that we are classified among countries that have only state banks in addition to a few foreign banks, is in fact incomprehensible. For this reason, I propose that Members and Members of the current coalition or the previous coalition, if this coalition is no longer in place today, consider supporting the proposal for a law to seek common solutions, to take account of the European Central Bank's opinions and to propose appropriate amendments in the so-called second reading procedure, which will be easily coordinated between all political parties or at least among the majority of political parties. I think we would do something good with this, not just for the state, not just for the government, but especially for Slovenian taxpayers, because their money goes to banks and that's why we owe ourselves. As a result, taxpayers will pay interest or higher taxes. This is what the government of Alenka Bratušek did, and there is no other result. She assigned the country 11.9 billion, pay attention, almost 12 billion in one year! That's one billion a month! And increased taxes. The result is a decline in competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, if this were to continue, the question is where this country would be if Mrs Alenka Bratušek had not resigned. I think it's good for the country, great for the country. A blessing to the state. Because the debt would go into 100% of the gross social product. If it were another year and if we were in debt at this rate, we would be in debt for another 12 billion and would probably increase taxes. I don't know how much value added tax would be, 30% if she ruled another year. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the law must be supported, that some common solutions must be put in place that will be for the benefit of Slovenia and that will be for the benefit of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! I personally should not have to be persuaded because I was already convinced that I would support this amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act. Not because someone convinced me, but because I firmly believe that the Bank of Slovenia is not doing its job, as it should be, that it is largely responsible for the mess in which we are, for these billions of holes, just because it has not done its job as it should be. I think it is necessary, despite the fact that these changes will probably not be enough to make a substantial change there, there is likely to be something more to be added in further consideration in order to actually ensure that Banka Slovenije will do those things in the interest of all of us than it should. I must say that, in 2006, I myself, as Chairman of the Finance Committee, went to the meetings of the Bank's Council. That I've been there for many times, and that I'm an accomplice perhaps because this bank hole is now smaller than it would have been if I hadn't opened my mouth at this meeting. I asked if we were really giving so-called tycoon loans to buy off companies with the flag of some of the shares they were just buying. And at what value is this flag taken into account in the guarantee of this loan? And to what extent is this happening? This was in 2007, the only one who did it, who was not a member of the world and, of course, Governor Kranjc later confirmed to me that this really happened. That's when I got the answer that this is a trifle, very little in a bank's portfolio, almost unworthy to ask. On the other hand, it follows that the full value of the shares in the flag market is taken into account and that these shares purchased are also taken into account. And after this question, and also further, when I said how market shares should be, if we knew – at that time – certain stock values were substantially overestimated in order to take account of the total market value. Today it's 100, tomorrow it's 10, and that's what happened. However, this was followed by a district of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, where he no longer allowed to deposit shares that were not yet owned by the buyer and, of course, to be taken into account for the guarantee only 50 % of the market value at that time. That's when this big thing happened. Earlier, there was a talk about the indebtedness of the private sector during the period 2004 of the so-called Janšev government and the indebtedness of the private sector, particularly banks abroad, of large money supply, especially when we became European currency [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u105	I'm asking for some order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u106	The money was at stake and banks were practically offering it. [[…]] And this is where Banka Slovenije found herself and was, in fact, the only supervisor in this system that should identify and act and should ensure that no credits are granted, whose probability of return is very low. They have very poor guarantees. I can't make excuses for a later crisis or anything. They gave loans for purely speculative purposes to various financial holding companies, financial companies. In short, there was no limit here. Private individuals, in the numbers of hundreds of millions of euros where the bank should act and, of course, prevent such action and the granting of loans that are not adequately secured by guarantees and guarantees. This was her work and her duty and, of course, they did not. In addition, as the sole supervisor of banks, he intervenes on his own on the audit – which Banka Slovenije again owed and supervised – even in the balance sheet of banks. It did not take appropriate and timely action. Weaknesses of claims and the like began to come four or five years too late. We are not yet aware of all the correct data and correct assessments of these claims. I think that in some of the things that were said earlier, the errors in the balance sheets, that we had inflated results, too few weaknesses, too few reservations, it was all the work of Banka Slovenije itself. In addition, I would add one more thing that Banka Slovenije should do. When problems began to arise in banks, losses began to occur and in total nothing was taken, the only measure was always a warning to the government and owners, so to speak, that they had to recapitalise the banks so much. Why did these needs arise, why did the banks get in trouble? Because they gave bad credits because they made wrong decisions, bad decisions and, of course, Banka Slovenije was no longer in a different state than to tell the owners, it is to a large extent that they have to recapitalise so much. And even now, in the final stages, it's similar. Recapitalize and make bad claims – this is the matter that has been reported. However, in order to do those urgent things in banks, long ago in order to replace administrations, to require remedial procedures, forcible settlement and so on, sharp measures in banks that would have to be carried out four and a half years earlier if they also had the correct balance sheets, the correct valuation of assets and liabilities and so on. None of this has been done by the bank, and even now nothing has happened. Even now, under new leadership, nothing is happening. I can't see. Maybe I'm not looking for the measures taken by the bank, we're talking about the debt of the economy, the aid and so on, some secret things. But we don't get an answer to the questions about what and how. Has anything changed about lending? What are the necessary guarantees for this? We know what Brussels finds and how much capital it takes to keep in reserve and so on. What has happened is that we do not have these bank holes repeated, that this would not happen all the time, but that we are all willing to say that we are for the public, and at the final stage we all stick to the fists, that we never know what it is, that we cannot bear to know how selectively, how someone works. [[…]] In short, we're playing with billions, we're playing and we're practically allowing a variety of networks of speculators to barant over our hard-earned money that we pay taxpayers and don't do anything and nothing happens. I've had enough of this, and I think we're going to have to do more than just change a little bit of the Banking Act. Much more. No one has ever been responsible for any matter, probably not, we will probably find that everything was fine and right, but of course I really need not be persuaded to support this law and I will support it, because I may be able to take at least one small step in this great mess to reduce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, followed by Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Marko Pavlišič and then Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will, of course, support this law, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is that Banka Slovenije has not done its job in the past. If I did my job, we wouldn't have a five billion-dollar hole in the banking system right now, and taxpayers wouldn't need to cover again what happened in the banks. And here has a great responsibility for the Bank of Slovenia. She is the chief supervisor, and she should do everything to prevent such things from happening in the banking system. Mr Bojan Starman has now told a lot of important truths and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have decided to introduce this law in order to address at a systemic level certain shortcomings that have been in the past, thereby allowing the Bank of Slovenia to better and better monitor the functioning of the banking system. However, the National Assembly should respond in a way that, of course, would also improve the control of the banking system when it comes to Banka Slovenije. I am sure that everything that has happened in the past, when we talk about this bank hole, would not have happened if the main regulator in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Bank of Slovenia, had carried out its task in accordance with its responsibilities. And since this has not been the case, it is necessary to take a systemic approach and set different conditions, as has been the case so far, for this control to be carried out in a more qualitative manner. I think taxpayers have a right to know what's going on with their money. 5 billion euros, that's a huge amount. We have now done this for the second time in Slovenia alone. On his own for the first time and now for the second time. And we are afraid and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this matter cannot be repeated for the third time. It is therefore necessary to find appropriate solutions in this area, which will be different, which will prevent such a situation from repeating itself. All the time, the coalition is trying to convince us that what we are doing with this law is an unacceptable intervention in the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. If Banka Slovenije has not done her job as chief supervisor and the National Assembly is responsible for the operation of the Bank of Slovenia through legislation, it is said, something needs to be changed in the systemic area and we are aware of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we have therefore tabled this law. And I don't understand the coalition or the government that they don't support this law because it's still important. It's so important. And I am sure that this law can also be changed in the second and third readings, in the part where the coalition and the government assess that certain solutions do not go in the right direction. But I am sure that, on the basis of this law, it is sufficient to build and build on it what is necessary for our banking system to function significantly better in the future than ever before, significantly more responsible and that no third recapitalisation would take place in order to reburden the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people. Because this problem affects every individual in this society, from first to last. And we must no longer repeat what happened in the past and that is why we have tabled this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that this area needs to be regulated in a different way than it has been before. I hope the coalition and the government will understand this further. This is understood and, of course, also by a coalition that has the opportunity to vote on this law at first reading, even voted in this direction, that this law goes to second reading and that here we all make one great effort and step forward for the benefit of our citizens and citizens, and I think this is an extreme and last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Let's take a look. What's been going on in banking over the last two years. Only in this mandate, this is said during the time of Prime Minister Janša and President Alenka Bratušek, then we see that we have encountered major problems during this period, especially because no one has actually had a serious view of the functioning of the banking system. We were also the only party to prepare amendments to the laws governing banking – as you know, we have proposed twice or three times amendments to the amendment to the Banking Act, where we have also proposed that certain things be treated differently so that we can also open up insight into the developments in the banking system. We are the only ones who have proposed extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly on this subject, where we have once again proposed that certain matters relating to the control of the banking system be arranged differently and none of this has been accepted. We now propose the third area to improve certain things also with the key supervisor of the banking system, namely Banka Slovenije. All that happened in the banking system was because there was some strange incest among those operating in the banking system. During the period following independence, there was a movement of staff during the management of Banka Slovenije, during the session of management functions in Banka Slovenije, during the course of political functions, during the exercise of supervisory functions, during the management of business banks and so on. In this round, in this spiral of cooperation of a closed circle of people, only people were rotating – once in the world of Banka Slovenije or governors, a little earlier ministers of finance, participated in the supervisory councils and then became presidents of the government – such was the case of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, a supervisor or one of the key employees in the Bank of Slovenia or in a business bank, and now he is the Minister of Finance and so on. This closed circle of these rotations, which is happening, is actually one that prevents any view and any control of the functioning of the banking system. And something has to be changed in this area for sure. In this constellation, the National Assembly, as it is, applies only to the provision of financial resources and to the granting of rights for the uncontrolled investment of public funds, most of which are obtained by borrowing in foreign markets in the resolution of the banking system. What's happening is actually some unhealthy situation, when a very narrow, closed circle, political-managers use the entire state's property. In fact, what was going on in business systems is the result of the way people operate in banking. And if the responsibility for politics is to be transferred – the policy is responsible because it does nothing – then certain powers must also be given to the policy and, above all, the control of those who operate in this segment, which is far more comprehensive in this country and in the history of this country. Not yet has this country invested in any project as much as it is in the banking system, but it is intended to act solely or essentially on the principle of margins, that is to say known added profits, and the matter is not covered. Which means that those who are untouchable here, whose names should not even be known who have enormous resources, do not even guarantee the enforcement of laws. However, since Banka Slovenije does not act as regulator, these things continue to happen. In the history of Slovenia, there is no single example of Banka Slovenije taking away a license from a top bank banker or, rather, a top bank banker. No President of the administration of any bank in Slovenia lost a license, even if it did not have any loss, a billion Euros of loss. Not one in the history of Slovenia. Now all I'm asking is, do you really think that none of the bankers did anything that would be contrary to the rules of a good master, which would be contrary to the rules of fair conduct or the rules of legality that are written down? That's the question. You won't get any serious answers to that. When we also addressed the problems of the banking system at the request of the Bank of Slovenia in this National Assembly, we did not actually know anything. Governor Kranjec came to the National Assembly, said something when we wanted to attend an open or closed session of some kind, it wasn't just that the matter was "almost okay". When he came here to say a few things, Governor Jazbec, who I think were not accurate enough, happened to be rehabilitated by two private banks, two completely private banks, with a few hundred million euros – this happened last spring, one year ago – from these government deposits to these two banks, dividends and prizes were paid and then we recovered that shell in September with a billion-dollar bailout bill and 30 million euros. This was our task at the time, to ensure the right to be indebted to the government and to give a blank ticket for the guarantee money to secure the programmed liquidation of the two banks. Now things are still slightly different, in fact, the banking system is almost entirely state-owned, the country is also responsible for policy, for the property of the country, after all, we adopt a number of laws on what we are going to do with state property and, if so, it is only right that the powers of those who are indebted or who approve of these things increase to have increased responsibilities on the one hand and, of course, also to have a view and, if necessary, to have some additional decisions. As regards the opinion of the European Central Bank, this opinion has no suspension role, this is not veto. The solutions to the law that we are proposing can also be regulated in accordance with the opinion. If we let this go forward, we will also get an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, we can also make these corrections, but if you want to push your head into the sand, if you want to act ostensibly, then you will vote against this law. However, if you want something radical to change in this area, to significantly improve matters, the law must be supported. It should be easily supported. And those who think that you need to keep pushing your head into the sand, pushing it, those who want something important to change in this area, say that the key problems in bank management and with the need to recapitalise banks, then something needs to be done here. Unfortunately, you have rejected all the solutions you have proposed. Nor does what now happens to a bad bank lead to disclosure, does it lead to transparency, does it lead to increased accountability, but obviously a bad bank serves only as an added deposit of money, an additional service for those who have shown extremely poor performance in their operations so far. Unfortunately, the government and the coalition that support these solutions have fallen completely in this area, 100% have fallen down, and it is time for something in this area to be done in a completely different direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlišič has the floor to prepare the Magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. The supervision of the Bank of Slovenia is, of course, necessary and necessary. We probably all agree here that the Bank of Slovenia has not played its part in the past years – since this expansion of debt started and after the financial crisis has occurred. But it is an eternal question in this national assembly whether marriage will really change anything. Or should we simply start working differently? Let me mention that, in this national assembly or in this country, we currently have 1 000 785 laws in force, and if we add to the amendment of these laws, we get to the number 2 000 890 of the laws currently in force and the amendments to the laws. And we're happy with the condition we have? The National Assembly produces laws at a rate of one hundred, two hundred, three hundred laws a year. And the SDS here adds another one to this mosaic. But are we really going to do something much better with this, or are we just going to have to start doing something different? In recent times, banks have started to work differently. External controls have been carried out in these banks. Bank recovery has begun, the transfer to a bad bank has started, the rationalisation of the work in these banks has started, and, last but not least, it has joined the supervised liquidation of the two banks, which means that it has started to work differently. Unfortunately, Mr Shirtzl is no longer among us, because he could provide us with more information on how to do things differently. Last but not least, Mr Shircelj was at the beginning of the operation of a bad bank in this bank. He was in the role of some sort of supervisor. And he could explain to us what he did at the time to make the Bank's Claims Management Company more transparent. Has he done anything to make wages more transparent in a bad bank, which he now likes to criticize and resent? When he was alone there, and he was pulling that salary, he didn't look down on anything. Unfortunately, he's not here to explain what's going on. With regard to the ECB's opinion, I would like to express my surprise. I don't know where Mr Horvat read that first sentence of the ECB's opinion, because I read the first sentence here and it reads: "Introduction and legal basis. European Central Bank [[ECB]] on 19 February 2014 she received the request of the President of the Slovenian Parliament " and so on. [[…]] A completely different first sentence. However, I am reading the document marked CON/2014/25 so that there will be no mistake about where I am reading it. It was also mentioned that the opinion of the European Central Bank is not negative to the proposal of this law, and that the word is not negative at all in this proposal. Those who mention it are right. The text is not negative in this report. However, let me read one paragraph of this report: "In accordance with the principle of institutional independence of central banks contained in Article 130 of the Treaty and Article 7 of the Statute of the ECB, the participation of representatives of third parties in the decision-making body of the NCBs with the right to vote in matters relating to the performance of the tasks of the ESCB shall be incompatible with the Treaty and the Statute of the ESCB, even if that vote is not decisive." Thus, they did not use the word negative opinion, but they used the word "incompatible" with the Treaty and the Statute of the European Central Bank. And then the following paragraph is again: "The proposed amendment is therefore incompatible with Article 27.1 of the Statute of the ECSB" and so on. Yeah, they really didn't use the word negative. But they used the word incompatible, incompatibilable in English. And more than once, not just once or twice, like I said. Best Finance Minister Bajuk – everything about the deceased – but this is the minister who then opposed the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, who opposed the fact that the then foreign owner, 25 % of the owners, would become the larger owner, in order to say that only 25 plus one share would remain in the hands of the Slovenian State, because it would prevent the statutory changes of this bank and that bank would remain in Slovenia. But this one, I'll say, in the opinion of some of the best ministers, has prevented this. And that's also why this story happened to us, because at the time of the Janša government, when Mr Bajuk was a finance minister, this did not happen. And I hope that this time we will be smarter and we will approach in a different way that we will eventually privatise this bank, and then let private capital lose and cover these losses if this happens again. I agree with Mr Franz about the introduction of a public investigation of a bank hole or, rather, he agrees with my opinion, but he would not be creaking about it now. However, Mr Jerovšek did not know whether he agreed or did not agree to carry out a public investigation. The only thing he attacked was that nothing had ever happened before. But when it comes to a point where something needs to be supported in concrete terms, then it happens — what? Mr Jerovšek said, offer us a sparrow in hand if you can't give us a pigeon. Look, dear gentlemen, we offered you a sparrow in hand when we voted on the Public Information Access Act. And then we opened up that it's now possible to look at these bad loans that have been transferred to a bad bank. And how did Mr Jerovšek vote back then? I have here a copy of the then vote, which says, "Jerovšek, Joseph, Quorum, did not vote." We offered Mr Jerovsk a sparrow, and he did not vote. I can list others who didn't vote at the time. And, yes, the good reason was because at the time an amendment was not adopted to open bad loans, including those left at the bank. Do you know how many votes were lost at the time for this to be voted on? One voice. And how many did the SDS not contribute? Five votes. Two of them were abroad on their way, and three of them were on their way, and I don't know where. Look, it's so important to you. And when you get to those points, show me what's going on with you. [[advertising in the hall]] Look, I don't know who he was, but I do know that two of them were in Ireland with President Janša. So, look, gentlemen, when something needs to be done, then you squeeze your tail between your legs. But the easiest thing to do is to propose laws that you yourself know in advance are simply not acceptable and will not be adopted. And then we can have this circus in the National Assembly. And if you want it, we'll have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u113	Sir, have you finished? Thank you very much. I wanted to remind you of your marriage. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, followed by a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you for your word. It is difficult not to comment briefly on the debate that my colleague Pavlisic had. Everything nice and right, he mentioned the resolution of the banking system, he mentioned the controlled liquidation of the banks, but he forgot to mention something. The rehabilitation of the banking system is approximately €6 billion at the expense of taxpayers, controlled liquidation of two private banks at the expense of taxpayers. And Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has been rehabilitating the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. And if ever, then, respected colleagues and colleagues, now is the time to make a novel on the Bank of Slovenia. In particular, it is in the interest that the errors in the first recovery and the second recovery of the banking system will not be repeated at the expense of taxpayers. Only because of this. Already in the SDS position, we have said that today the first reading of this law is, we estimate that it is imperative that today it be decided that the law is suitable for further consideration. However, we have already said that we will, of course, take into account all the comments made by the European Central Bank, which we must take into account. And the Slovenian Democratic Party expects other parliamentary groups to participate in this law and that this law will eventually turn out to be as good and as good as possible, it is probably in our best interest for all of us. Or it is in the interest of some individuals to speak again in a year or two about the rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. The Company for Bank Claims Management, the so-called Bad Bank, was also mentioned. You have forgotten to say that the government of Janez Janša has invited all parliamentary groups to participate in this law, and all parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to participate in the adoption and drafting of this law. And why is this law and the collapse of the banking system important? Slovenia is on a competitiveness scale, published a few days ago, in 55th place from 60 countries. I would like to point out here that, at the end of the government's term of office, Janez Janša Slovenia was 32nd. Then came Mr Borut Pahor and Mrs Alenka Bratušek and Slovenia fell to 55th place. Many times, the left coalition spoke out on the financial and economic crisis. But these countries that are on these charts have all experienced both the financial and the economic crisis. And why was it that only Slovenia, in the mandate of Borut Pahor, fell to the pure bottom of the ladder in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek? But probably one of the reasons is the banking system and the bank. Most of the comments and the most negative views of the witnesses interviewed by the Commission of Inquiry were mainly on the basis of the period 2009 and 2010. And I'm sure the easiest thing to say is that this law is not good, this law is not suitable for further consideration, the ECB is telling you where you've gone. Let us sit together once and say, we too admit, in certain parts, of course, we will take into account the ECB's opinion. However, in general, I expect this law to receive support today and that we will be able to improve it in the second and third readings. Or it is not in anyone’s interest to make fundamental changes in the banking system that are urgently needed. Slovenia is probably one exception in this area. For the second time, we will fix the banking system at the expense of taxpayers, we still have a banking system where state ownership is one of the largest in the world, we have one bank that has a significantly higher market share and a balance sheet than other competing banks, and I finally feel that someone likes it. And let's put in here and try to make this law better. However, I agree with what my colleague Pavlišič said, that this is indeed worrying that Slovenia currently has about 2 000 valid laws. But this law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is not new. But we seek to improve this law and to ensure [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you. It is also urgent to add here that the government of Janez Janša was among the governments of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek. Now I do not know whether Mr Marko Pogačnik is already ashamed of these previous governments, because I am not ashamed of anything. Finally, it was pointed out that all parliamentary groups were also included in the DUTB Act. Of course they were, because he was the minister who led all this together, Dr. Janez Šuštersič. Of course, then everyone was involved, because it's the way in which middle parties operate, and that's how we work. So I agree with what you're saying, absolutely. Of course, we can improve the law in the second and third readings, but we have already dealt with something similar three times in this national assembly, and you have not included all those comments in this proposal, so I do not know what else we are going to do here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The government won't discuss it. Then it's still his turn to propose mags. Andrey Shircelj. He's not in the hall right now. Only 22 seconds were available. I note, fellow Member and fellow Members, that all of you who have declared yourselves worthy of this have been given the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. If they wish to discuss, they also have a representative of the Magi's proponents. Andrej Shircelj and representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew Vranicar, please report with your hand up. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I do not see a desire for further discussion, so I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote today at 2.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u118	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Is everything okay with the voicemails? Can we proceed with the vote? I understand that the voting devices are fine. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. We're moving on to a re-decision. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision under the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the majority of all members of the assembly should vote in favour of the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 30. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the Water Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. May I have your attention, please? Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Control Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The 73 Members and Members present voted in favour of 35 votes against 36. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the assembly has not adopted a decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplementation of the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 75 Members and Members present, 57 votes against 15. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 75 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 15. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law referred to the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? They're informing me that we have a problem with the voting device. That's why I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. I think it's good to set up a voting system. They're informing me that they need 15 minutes and we'll resume the session at 15.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u119	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work. On this occasion, however, I inform you that the services at the end of the meeting have found that the voting device was working correctly and that there has been a malfunction in the time measurement system. The error was corrected on vacation, so we can continue the meeting. We are voting on the 12th item of the agenda. We are voting on the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Hungary on the amendment of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on military cooperation in the field of aviation and air defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments to the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, it is on the confirmation of the official purged text of the law on foreigners. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Aliens Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. Under the heading, we are moving to the Conclusion on the termination of the term of office of the members of the Programme Council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The mandate-election commission presented two conclusions to the National Assembly to conclude that the members of the Programme Council of Radio Television Slovenia, Matjaž Steržet and Mihi Klun, have no mandate. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a proposal for the termination of the term of office. The Radio Television Programme Board informed the National Assembly that one of the members of the Programme Council, which was confirmed by the National Assembly, had suspected that they did not meet the conditions and that it did not meet those conditions at the time of its term of office. The President of the National Assembly, who received this notice, kept this notice with him for a week and then put it around, and on the basis of this notification we also requested a meeting of the Emergency Committee. At this meeting, which was properly convened, there was some strange expansion of the agenda by extending the indicators to the Miho Klun program board member. There it was reported to Klun that he is a member of the Executive Committee of the Municipal Committee, he is said to be an official, but he is not a functionary, that he is not a vice-president of the region, which is also not a member of a board of experts, which is also not a functionary or functionary, that he is a leader of a group of saints, where he is not an official, and so on. That he is a member of the State Election Commission, which, in our view, would mean that, according to this criterion, also all who are members of the electoral committees, because they are appointed on the basis of the same provisions, should not be in the bodies of RTV. It is interesting in this consideration that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Mrs Župevc, requested the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on our proposal for a decision that we have given to Mr Strzet. When we also received the responses of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also saw the proposal for a decision proposed by Mrs Župevc, we proposed that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service be obtained in this case, but the coalition rejected this vote, which suggests that this was not a case for the situation to be clarified, but that, in addition to eliminating Matjaž Steržet, it also eliminates someone who, in our opinion, was properly appointed as a member of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia. If this coalition or this so-called coalition of solving things is being pursued in such a way, it is not surprising that what happened happened happened. And in this case, when you have not allowed the review of the decision you have proposed to the same Legislative and Legal Service at the same point in the agenda, it is impossible to avoid that, on the basis of this indictment you have made, you have also issued an indictment, it is said that you have withdrawn the mandate of Micha Klun, who has been duly appointed in our opinion. The desire to be balanced is, in fact, strange. If you would also like to check with the other members of the RTV Programme Board, which you have appointed, you could also do so earlier than before your appointment, as early as a month ago, but also later. For in this programming world, which you have chosen by your majority, there may be others who do not meet the conditions of a member of the Radio Television Programme Board or of the Radio Television Supervisory Board under these indicative criteria. And I must say that we are in our parliamentary group over such behaviour of the coalition, and, on the one hand, it is good that these stories, which are incorrect, non-systematic and also non-systematic, end with the end of your mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Before me, we heard my forerunner say that we have a proposal for a decision before us. I hope that the leader of the largest opposition or parliamentary group – one and the other – knows that we are really just getting acquainted with the decision today and there is no more proposal, as this proposal is accepted. But more importantly, it is, as has been rightly said and repeatedly repeated on the Commission's mandate, that it has found that one of the members of the Programme Council no longer fulfils the conditions for being a member of the Programme Council. And this finding was found immediately at the outset of the Mandate-Election Commission itself, and I think there was actually no one to challenge this issue at all. The problem is, of course, somewhere else, as my speaker has pointed out, and this is that the witch hunt has begun, because the fact is that he has already suggested what their work will be today behind this stage of speech. He even predicted that there is likely to be someone or someone else who does not conform to these conditions in this Program World. Of course, this proved to be very quick for another member, and things changed greatly. This is what they call the biggest opposition party that one candidate was found by the Program Council and the other was politically eliminated. And then we find a thousand and one reason why. However, the fact is that if what was the problem in the debate and in the decision-making process is that, on the basis of this resolution, it is desirable to note that in fact all the decisions that this Programme Council has taken back are illegal. Moreover, the Programme Council ordered a legal opinion that did not suit it, and ordered another legal opinion that was appropriate to it and thus initiated the procedure. That is to say, today we are talking about two members, and we are actually talking about the director of Radiotelevision Slovenia, because the goal and purpose of this is how the fact has already been voted out, and this is that we have a new director of Radiotelevision Slovenia, in a way, to call off in a kind of way with the conclusion that someone has not had the opportunity to vote since the very beginning, because all things apply back. If so, then perhaps a number of decisions in this country should fall, for one simple reason, because I hope we do not live in a country where we find things backward or retroactive. That's why I find such a hint, for the first time, rude and one of the ways we're politically charged. Only two matters to me. It is true that we have found that both candidates do not meet the conditions and that the Mandate-Election Commission has also resolved them by a decision. And we will do the same in all the same cases that will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you, too. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The DeSUS Group usually does not present views and does not discuss matters of mandate-election, in particular with regard to appointments, elections and discharges. Why? Since these points are a matter of formality in most cases, we are therefore taking note of or voting on decisions previously dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and since, as a rule, these proposals are linked to the fulfilment of precisely defined legal conditions, which means, in particular, on appointments, that if the candidate does not already meet certain conditions, it is automatically eliminated, which is correct. Thus, in the end, for all candidates for the bodies, councils, committees, administrations, commissions, different calls for jobs. With regard to the appointment of members of the RTV Programme Council, we all know how the call for candidates was made, which conditions were determined, which persons and what qualifications we appointed to this world. That we had received a letter from this body which subsequently questioned that one member did not meet the conditions prescribed by law and that it had been shown that another member did not fulfil the conditions during the examination of this letter. I will not operate on this place with the names resolved, nor will I dispute their customer affiliation, because this is really of foreign importance to us. Also in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we do not ask and question what this decision would mean for the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. This is not our decision, this is the competence of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and we do not interfere with these decisions. It is crucial for us to conclude that the two appointed have not already met the conditions in the run-off, and that I voted in favour of the decision to end the term of office myself as a member of the Mandate-Election Commission. To get back to the beginning. Why did we choose to represent the position of our delegation at this point? To express deep disappointment and disdain. We have so far believed the documentation provided by the candidates, and both of us, now former or current members of the world, have signed our own declaration of compliance with all the prescribed conditions. I have these statements on the counter. The fact is, they both filed an untrue, false report, which is inadmissible, immoral, unethical, and condemned. If the sanction for their action is merely the termination of a mandate in the world, it is our view that this is an extremely nice sanction, a mild thirst, because it is a false disclosure, a false confession. Any excuses to make an unintended mistake are unacceptable. One of them is even a recognized legal expert. But each one knows for himself whether he meets the conditions or not. No one knows how many times to this day we have blindly trusted the evidence and statements we have transmitted. No one knows how many times we who confirm such persons have been played in the final stage of the country as such. And that's very sad. Do these two cases indicate that later documentation will no longer be entrusted to the temple of democracy and that further verification will be necessary? Let me finish. We will be happy if these fears prove to be unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I deeply agree with the presentation by my predecessor, Mr Jurša, of the position of the Group of Members. I also wish that, in the coming term of office, this National Assembly would not face the cases that we had in this mandate when, at the Mandate-Election Commission and as a result, at the meetings of the National Assembly, we first dealt with the appointments, and a few months later, we also have cases of individual actions that have triggered administrative disputes against the decisions of the National Assembly. Also, what my predecessor or two said is the responsibility of the one applying for a public invitation to tender is what should be at the forefront. Indeed, in the past, there was no such responsibility against those who falsely cited the information and claimed by their signature on the document that they met all the conditions for a function. None of these people have been sanctioned, if you want, properly punished. If a person applies for an invitation to tender and claims by his own signature that he fulfils certain conditions, I think this should be sufficient in a legal country. However, in this national assembly, as we have said, we have been in this mandate too many times, and even before, we have faced cases where individuals simply did not take it seriously enough. Speaking of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, there has already been some talk today about whether there is a political party. It is not about whether someone was a political party’s official during the period before appointment, i.e. in a period of five years, but whether he was a member of a political party’s body. There is a big difference in this, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has been defined. It is true that it has been defined in this particular case only in one case but not in the other, but it was the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that voted on it, and this was not the decision of the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The last time one of the employees in this National Assembly joked to me, "Yes, we will have to start with the practice of the Mandate-Volution Commission comes home." I hope we don't have to do this, ring the doorbells and see what candidates applying for various public functions actually do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get ready for Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. What exactly is to say after what we do? It'd be best if you didn't. But still. I listened to Dr. Vito Bobek's lecture at the Faculty of Economics 30 years ago. He said, "All decisions we make in life are financial decisions." This decision is also a financial decision. Due to such poor conduct, Slovenia is primarily financially at the bottom due to such poor decisions. It's the result of such colloquial, some kind of legal, I don't know what kind of dribbles they're not taking anywhere. And it's sad that they do it, we do it. That's all I wanted to say. I have discussed earlier that, of course, Slovenia is the last or the last on the competitiveness scale. This also affects whether I believe it or not, whether you believe it or not, because all social systems are highly intertwined. And when my predecessor spoke about the responsibility of someone to apply for the job, correctly, but you remember that we rejected the Bank of Slovenia Act half an hour ago, which sets out nothing but the greater responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia for the decisions taken. Where we are, we are primarily because we have made wrong decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you, too. In the meantime, we were fired from the debate, so it is Dr Vinko Gorenak's turn, and Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Well, you could say that this decision is not true, but it is, or about, that if this coalition put to the vote that the tower is falling outside, they would vote. Let me return to the darkness. Mr Klun was first informed that he is a member of the SDS Expert Council, which, under the 2009 statute, is the SDS Expert Council in charge of justice, but Mr Klun has never been a member of the Professional Council. The SDS expert council is shaped according to the principle of government, you could say that the government is in the shadows. There are as many people in the Professional Council as there are ministries in a given mandate and run by the President. Mr. Clown has never been there. I'm a member. The Coalition has determined that it is a member of the Council of Experts, because the coalition knows what is written in our Statute and we do not know what we have written in this Statute ourselves. The coalition, however, was not prepared to listen to the legal service or to request a legal opinion. Come in. This, of course, was not enough, it was little on a shaky foundation, so during a break on the Commission's mandate, the coalition brought a fantasticly useful conclusion to the plan. So, Mr Clown is supposed to be a member of the National Election Commission, where he has been for years and years. Who are the officers, the law and the law on the National Election Commission do not prescribe that the members of the National Election Commission would be officers. Moreover, their director is also a civil servant and not an official. The law says their work is honorable, so they're not officials. If they were officials, they should report their assets to the State Election Commission and they don't need to. So they're not functionaries. And one more thing, the coalition could have found one victim for the balance of the RTV Council, and that is Mr Cloone. She voted on something that's not true, which has no basis in reality. It's exactly the same as if we're now voting that the hailstone is falling outside. But for this coalition, it can fall to the hailstone. A little while ago, we also listened to murmuring and groaning about how criminal it was if someone signed some documents that were not accurate. Of course, that's criminal. That is why I have proposed, on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that all the documentation in the case of this gentleman, not Mr Klon, the other, Mr Stržeta, should be withdrawn to the police. You won't believe it. The coalition was against it. And such a decision has not been adopted. Such a decision has not been adopted. This means that the camera coalition and people are talking about how honest it is, how it expects us to prosecute those who sign some documents that do not have a basis in reality, so they lie and come to some place, which I agree is a crime. But when you have to press the "for" button, say, "For the police, drop the data," it's a coalition against. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a hoax. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfair, but it's not a crime to vote on your conscience. You must vote on your conscience, but if you vote on your conscience, you must have a conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Today it is difficult to discuss this, especially when we listen to cuts of debates that have been much longer on the Mandate-Election Commission, on the very basis of who is a member of the body of the individual party and who is not. It is true, however, that at the beginning of this same MVK, we have already received a similar opinion from the Legal and Legal Service, which has made the following very clear at the beginning of the mandate. She said that, of course, each case needs to be dealt with separately and, of course, to look at the statutes that define what their bodies are. And I had a longer discussion where I explained – and today it is virtually impossible to explain in five minutes what and where it differs within this statute and which determines who was a member of the body at that time. I am, in some ways, questioning their findings that they are today discussing in this direction, if he has never been a member of the party's body, but I am talking about the expert council that has been defined in this statute as the party's body, but they have, now it seems, two types of members. Members of the expert council body who are members of the Council body. How they get to them doesn't matter. And somehow some outside members, something in this context, who are also members of the Professional Council, but not members. These are some special members who are not members of this body. Look, of course the MVK didn't do it because it's not an MVK problem. Of course, there's a problem somewhere else. For those who follow this and who do not understand when Mr Gorenak mentioned the following, that even membership in the National Election Commission is honorable, they are not officials. Then I'll go to another case. You know, the law makes it very clear that state councillors are honorary, but they're officials. So, we have one serious problem, and once it's an honorable job, someone's doing a functionary job, and another it's not. The fact is that we have professional and non-professional officials and we have also opened this dilemma to the MVK and, of course, I also admit that we did not have a common language on this issue. However, this is not new for the National Assembly, especially for the Mandate-Election Commission, but it is new that there are members who need to be prosecuted and members who do not know that they are members and are unlikely to be required. And now the answer to what Mr. Gorenak said. The MVK has not really accepted this decision that you have proposed, but you still have – and I believe that this morality and ethics holds you – also the duty to do it yourself. And I believe you'll do it for both members who have been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you can get away with this, but unfortunately you won't get away with it, because you've got it so good that it's a real problem to get out now. If anything, this moment should be a member of the SDS and Mr Cloone, who you defend on the one hand, as if it were nothing, and on the other hand he is the greatest expert. Why? Because he was at every possible function you called him. In all functions, this Mr. Klun has already been, from Soda or Kada, to DVK, to the Programme Council, mainly wunderkind SDS, but he is not a statutory official. That's one thing. Second thing. At this meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission, the Social Democrats supported a decision on the basis of which the mandate of the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council was terminated, both by Mr Sterget and Mr Klun. The fact is that they both do not comply with the legal condition which prohibits membership in political parties' bodies for a period of five years. Both Mr Sterget and Mr Clown, one in the SDS, the other in Zares. And those are the facts. Second. In addition, Mr Miha Klun did not yet fulfil the second legal requirement that a member of the Programme Council should not be a member of a state body acting as a non-professional public official in the National Election Commission. You won't believe this, it's in the RTV Act. The future leader of the RTV Act is Mr Mag. Grimes. This is the third paragraph of Article 17. It clearly says who can be in the programming world. Jože, it's not true what you're saying. You're comparing the electoral boards and the members of the State Election Commission. Election committees in municipalities or in elections are exchanged for each election, for each referendum and for the DVK, for the whole term of office for four years, and in some ways the mandate is an essential feature for the holder of functions. The whole term. And it's honorable, like Vinko said, but they get paid. However, it is crucial, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, that you do not like the fact that the director of RTV Slovenia has become Natasha Pirc Musar and you have found something. You found poor Sterget, who had wrongly signed himself, but you didn't know that there was another one in your ranks or in the Program World, Mr Clown, and it's kind of equal. Now it's 1:1, the matter is undecided. What the Program Council is going to do now, we don't know. At least it is necessary to play by the rules of the game that apply to everyone, to our client, to your client, to your former Really and so on. We in the Group of Social Democrats have voted, in principle, to get rid of both candidates. But what the Program Council will do is their autonomous thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We did not find Mr Strzet, but the RTV Program Council, which was on your side, or also ours, addressed a written proposal to the President of the National Assembly, which stood in the drawers of your President a week before we received it. This is a fact, you can check all the dates and the blockade that did not happen before was actually caused in your parliamentary group. Second. Mr Clown was first appointed to the authorities of RTV in the time of the Pahor government. At that time, two of your members, Mr Kumer and Mr Kontić led the Mandate-Electorial Commission. That was the first time he went to the Supervisory Council, which was in 2011. The second procedure for appointment to the RTV authorities was carried out at the end of last year. The mandate-election committee was once again led by someone from the coalition, called Mrs Melita Župevc. And now I ask who made the mistake in this case, because it is always the President of the working body who is preparing the proposal for a decision. And on the Commission's terms of reference, each member of the RTV Programme Council writes, if he does not meet the conditions, that he does not meet the criteria and that of which. Neither then, nor now, nor the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission of the day, nor the current President, have found anything objectionable to Mr Klun's candidate. Nothing. There was no bookmark. And as you know, we decide first about those who do not meet the conditions and eliminate them. That's not what happened in this case. And I can only find that when members of the Mandate-Volution Commission are running, I do not know if the Social Democrats or the Positive Slovenia are not doing the work in the Mandate-Volution Commission as it should, because the candidates proposed do not fully check all the conditions of compliance. And not now to burden someone with this, a mistake has been made in running the Mandate-Election Commission, in reference to when you led it, when Kontic or Kumer, and now when Mrs Župevc was doing this. That the problem of working on the Mandate-Election Commission also shows what was happening with a member of our selection commission for the selection of the KPK. It's exactly the same story. That's why two members resigned. She was twice a member of the KPK selection panel, twice an affair. And speaking of this, Mr Han and Mr Möderndorfer, if they were correct, if they had what it takes, the proposal would be supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to meet the conditions of Mr Klun. Well, you didn't. Not now to explain your interpretation of what it is to fulfil the conditions or not, we would support the decision, as you did in the case of Mr Strzet. You asked for it yourself, the President of the Mandate-Volution Commission demanded it. Without the mandate-electing committee voting. And when we proposed to verify the situation also through our Legal and Legislative Service, you rejected this proposal by most of the time. I'm just wondering why you were afraid of the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service, which would probably be different from those of your interpretations here. Because if you were so sure of the proposal and the solution you proposed and defended, you probably would have given it to the Legislative and Legal Service, but you didn't. You didn't do it. And do not explain to me the arrangements for meeting the conditions and so on, when the Constitutional Court has now told you four times in a few months that these interpretations of the law you are affording do not stand. And you even have a President of the Constitutional Commission, with a judicial exam, and they don't stand. And if the coalition were correct, even now that it is leaving, and we would allow it, we would do it, and in that case none of the members of our parliamentary group would even discuss this item on the agenda. We are therefore obliged to draw attention to duality when, at the same point of the agenda, you once ask for the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and you do not want it in the second case. And this suggests that you are not convinced of your claim that it was a political account. It's based on the indictments you've made up, you've also relieved someone of the function of a member of the Programme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Tanko, let me just make it clear that I always sign all the letters on an up-to-date basis when they are ready, and I also forward them. You have received the word of everyone who has been reported to the debate, so I conclude the debate. Under point 1 of the Mandate-Election Commission, it is proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 18, paragraph 1, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be taken: Matjaž Sterže is found not to meet the conditions for a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, since he was a member of the political party's body 5 years before his appointment as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Therefore, the term of office of a member of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia shall expire. Under point 2 of the Mandate-Election Commission, it is proposed to the National Assembly to take note, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Act on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of the following decision: It is established that Miha Klun does not meet the conditions for a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, since he was a member of the political party body for a period of 5 years prior to his appointment as a member of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia and as an official of the national authority. Therefore, the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia shall expire. I take it the National Assembly has come to the conclusion. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and goodbye!
