ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mrs Marija Plevčak, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Dr Ljubica Jelusič from 15.30 p.m., Mr Matevž Frangež from 15.30 p.m., Mr. Richard Braniselj from 15.30 p.m., Mr. Jakob Presečnik, Mr. Franz Bokovic, Dr. Jožef Kunič, Mrs. Romana Tomc, Mrs Eva Irgl and Mag. Andrej Vizjak. I've invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome everyone here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 64th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Vice-President of the Parliament of the Republic of Polonca Komar proposes that the agenda of the 64th extraordinary meeting be extended by the following item, point 2. It's a matter of time. You have received 13. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Does the proposer wish to present this proposal further? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Government want a word on this extension? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Before making a decision, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Can we decide on a proposal for enlargement? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as item 2 of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and in accordance with the adopted Supplement. So, we are voting on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 64th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under point a, we are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of Member of the National Assembly, Peter Wilfan. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that Member Peter Wilfan has informed me in writing on 12 May 2014 that he has resigned from his office as a Member. Member Peter Wilfan may also receive the text at this time for an explanation of his resignation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and all the others present! I think it's right to say a few words about this Saturday event, even though I believe you're all more or less familiar with it. A few minutes after this unfortunate event, I knew what to do and what to do, and this is that I will leave the following morning or morning, and I also resigned as a member of the National Assembly. I did it for me, I did it for people who know me and who certainly expected me to do it. I did this because I always took responsibility in life and also the consequences of such a responsibility, and not least so that I could look into the mirror in the future. But today I would like to give one message, a message to all those who think, whether it's athletes or former athletes or just people who feel good or think they're in good psychophysical condition, and therefore they think that before they sit behind the wheel, they can have a beer or two, maybe even three. My message is, of course, that's not the way it is, and they can't do that. I'm sure I won't do it again. Once again, let me say that I deeply regret this action and once again apologize to the gentleman who was involved in this unfortunate event. In the end, I thank you for your cooperation. I think we've worked together properly, that's my opinion, and this is true for everyone, both in the middle and the ones on the left and the ones on the right. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u3	I thank Peter Wilfan for his explanation. Mr. Wilphan, maybe just a moment. I would also like to thank you for your participation in the National Assembly. Of course, I wish you a successful job in the future on the responsibilities you will perform. Thank you. I note that, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the term of office of a Member shall expire on 14 May 2014. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. On the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: 5. 2014 shall end the term of office of a Member and shall also expire as Vice-President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that has been made in relation to the excessive sentences in agriculture. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 26 MEPs and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We believe that the government of Alenka Bratušek is working against the countryside and against the Slovenian farmer. The penalties in agriculture are the same or higher than for the worst tax offences. Apparently, the Ministry sees only a source of taxation and budget charging in the agricultural sector, while the fight is being done little in the areas of improving agricultural use, improving agricultural structure, improving farms, introducing modern technologies and so on. With such interventions to agriculture as the Ministry and the Minister of the Jews, agriculture is working unpredictably and is trying to disable or even remove all those who might still wish to grow in that area. In this mandate, we are mainly dealing with the irrational regulation of fines for a farmer whose shoulders are also trying to solve the economic crisis in Slovenia. In fact, several laws have been proposed in which fines are enormously high and are not comparable to the weight of the offence. Almost all the legislation that has been amended in this mandate in the field of agriculture brings a substantial, substantial increase in penalties. In all cases, it is characteristic that it provides enormous penalties for those who commit minor offences. The penal provisions of the Forest Act stipulate that a fine of EUR 2 000 500 to EUR 50 000 shall be imposed on a legal person, an individual who carries out the activity or dispatch on his or her own, if he or she carries forest forest varieties without a carrier or if the data on the carrier are incomplete. This penalty represents a huge amount in relation to the value of goods loaded or transported. Thus, the fine may be somewhat ten times higher than the value of transport, even if it may be a hundred times higher, and the fine is independent of whether or not this person accidentally has a carrier with him or her, that is to say that he has forgotten it or that he has not raised it at all. With a fine of 300 to 2,000 euros, an individual is also punished for the same offence. While we have suggested that it is right to ensure the traceability of wood, we have always warned that such a way of solving traceability is non-life, and above all, there are incomprehensible penalties which do not have any educational effect. The penalties imposed by the Magi. The Jews, they are too high, they are not rational, and they are not proportionate to the offence and to the damage that may arise. The fines are fixed disproportionately by a European regulation which states that penalties must be imposed in proportion to environmental damage and that there is simply no such criteria in the laws. Since there are no criteria, for someone who does not have a carrier, it will be possible to measure the same penalty as for black-slice. The same treatment of forest owners as those who steal or trade timber is, in our opinion, unacceptable. The European Regulation, which has been introduced into Slovenia's legal order with the said amendment, focuses on economic operators and the Ministry has mainly burdened small farmers with the law. In addition to the administrative burden, farmers have been subject to enormous financial sanctions. Similarly, in the Wine Act, the new law's proponents simplified the penal procedure and increased the penalties for offences by three times and by 50%. The wine law lays down penalties of between EUR 2 000 and EUR 28 000 for the wine producer if he uses a geographical indication, a traditional term or an additional traditional term, if he does not mark the vessel or announce to the wine-holder the ownership of the must. For small producers, the fines range from €650 to €6000 500, which means that this is about as much wine as a high sentence. We are convinced that there are very few small wine producers who produce 6,000 500 litres of wine per year, which means that the penalty is higher than the annual crop and is not proportionate to the offence and the damage that may arise. Otherwise, we understand and support the basic purpose of the law, the protection of the consumer from misleading about the origin and quality of wine and the protection of the producer of grapes and wine against unfair competition, but we believe that Minister Židan has gone too far with penalties this time. Similarly, the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, which we already have in the parliamentary procedure, will obviously be the same. An easier offence is to drive or if a legal person drives, stops or parks a motor vehicle in a natural environment and the vehicle does not stand or is not parked in a 5-metre lane outside the vehicle or uses a motor vehicle that is not entered in the record and is not marked. The fine is between €5,000 and €10,000, with a span of between €5,000 and €5,000. It follows from the foregoing that the penalties for agricultural offences are clearly inconsistent with the penalties for offences in other areas. For particularly serious tax offences, if the amount underpaid is higher than EUR 5,000, with a fine of 20% of the underpaid tax, but not less than EUR 1000 200 and not more than EUR 50 000, the individual or individual acting alone shall punish the offence. With a fine of 30% of the underpaid tax, but no less than EUR 1,000 500 and no more than EUR 150 000, a legal person is being punished for the offence. The bank may be fined between €80,000 and €370,000 for serious violations, while only €2000 to €15 000 can be fined for violations by a member of the bank's administration or supervisory board. The worst violations can be punishable by a fine of between EUR 25 000 and EUR 125 000, while violations by a member of the board or the supervisory board of the insurance undertaking are punishable by a fine of only EUR 400 to 4 000 100. Thus, a farmer who transports 5 cubic metres of timber without a carrier or who has incomplete data on the carrier may be punished with an extremely high fine, while a tax collector who is tax evasion for, for example, 3 million euros may be fined a maximum of 50,000 euros. That the members of the boards and supervisory boards of banks that may be subject to a maximum penalty of EUR 15 000 may not even be mentioned. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have strongly opposed and proposed proportionate penalties in all these laws. Unfortunately, we have always been voted on by the coalition and therefore these enormous penalties are still valid today, and according to yesterday's responses, the Minister will continue to apply. The mandate of this government is ending, including the mandate of the Minister of the Jews, who, according to our assessment, has led the rural policy rather than the rural policy as expected. There was a lot of talk, there was a lot of promise, but apart from the drastic punishments, nothing has been done to improve and develop agriculture. It is too small for you to write in the Coalition Treaty that the strategic objective of your agricultural policy will be to increase production of quality, safe and price-competitive food. We need to move from words to actions. You've adopted a plan or resolution. We'll provide you with food for tomorrow. It is a very attractive and populist address, which misleads the public with the apparent efforts of the ministry or government. If we really want to achieve the goal of raising the self-sustainment rate with certain key agricultural crops, this should still be reflected in the preparation of the agricultural budget. This means shifting budgetary resources to sectors that are key. The percentage of home-made basic food in Slovenia reaches an average of 30 to 65% of needs. Exceptions are beef, milk, poultry and some apples. The solution to the situation is the ability to look for an indirect stimulus to the rise in food production, through rural development measures, linking production planning to a well-known buyer and, of course, taxation of unprocessed agricultural land. In practice, this represents the need to increase the area for crops to the account of areas intended for livestock farming. This must move to areas that are not suitable for agriculture. Today’s session is an opportunity to highlight an area where there is still no movement or where there is still some effort to be made if we do not just want letters on paper. This is a link between rural development programme measures and self-sustainment objectives. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is estimated that rural development measures, where the broad platform of activity, should aim to place surplus food produced in this rural area into the self-sustainment chain, namely, integration, multi-annual contracts, risk-taking across the entire chain, enabling farmers to plan production. It is in this area that the greatest manna is, and only the arrangements are expected for the future. The rural development programme allocates Slovenia as much as €1 billion and €100 million for the next 7 years, and food growers rightly expect a large share of this billion to increase food supply. The country should do much more than just impose penalties to improve the situation in agriculture. We lack adequate agricultural policy measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am talking about the vision of development, the relevant legislation and the simplification of regulations. This is not all, so the economic and social situation of the farmer is deteriorating year after year. Your Honor, I've said this several times about this pay phone, and I'm going to say it again now. It must be stopped by a horrifying celebration of the countryside. But this will be the task of the next Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, because the income of Slovenian farmers is still falling and their social situation is deteriorating. This is certainly affected by the general economic crisis reflected in the decline in agricultural prices. Agriculture is a less profitable economic activity and public support is therefore necessary. It also reduces the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture due to the unpleasant age, educational structure and fragmented ownership structures. If we add the inappropriate relations in the rape chain and the lack of public awareness of the need for a Slovenian farmer and at home processed food, of course everything is clear. Therefore, the honourable Minister, a respected coalition, let us acknowledge that you have made a farmer even less competitive with huge penalties in the field of agriculture, and of course that is not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u5	Thank you. The proposal for a recommendation is 13. 5. 2014 discussed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Branko Fick.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u6	Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a recommendation on excessive penalties in agriculture at its 40th emergency meeting. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the service assesses that the recommendation is an appropriate form, but notes that some points are unclear or exceed the principle of the division of power or are controversial about compliance with the legal system. It further summed up the main comments at the first point on the high penalties in agriculture, with only three cases of fines for infringements of the three laws being identified from the material for the recommendation, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, is not sufficient to assess that high penalties are a general problem in the whole area of agriculture. In the second point, it is unclear as to the reason for the alleged disproportionateity of the sentence in agriculture with the gravity of the offences. For the third point, it contains an indeterminate measure because it is not clear which area the criminal provisions in agriculture should be compared to. In the fourth point, it is disputed in terms of the principle of division of power. Such guidelines are also incomplete from a legal and legal point of view and cannot be provided for in the regulatory procedures for infringements. For the fifth point, because of its categorism, the rule of law may constitute an infringement of the legislative branch of power into enforcement, which is contrary to the principle of the division of power. In the debate, a large part of the opposition MPs paid greater attention to the unsatisfactory situation in agriculture and the responsibility of the Government or the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment for such a situation. With regard to the proposal, however, the recommendations pointed out that the existing penalties laid down in the Law on Forests and the Law on Wine, are too high, unreasonable, irrational and are not proportionate to the offence and the damage that may arise, and therefore cannot have any educational effect. This way they can be seen as a source of taxation and budget charging and are aimed at farmers and the Slovenian countryside. The penalties provided for in agricultural legislation go to unreasonable amounts, especially when compared with penalties for particularly serious tax offences, banking and insurance offences. In view of this, it is the view of the proposers that the Government should prepare an analysis as soon as possible to determine where the penalties are too high, where they are too low and even need to be increased and where they are appropriate. However, members of the coalition parliamentary groups felt that the proposal for recommendations was poorly prepared, some even meant an intervention of the legislative branch of the authorities into the executive branch and therefore the proposal could not be accepted. Moreover, this is a topic that is not so critical at the moment, and the possible adoption of recommendations would in no way help to improve the situation in agriculture. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the proposal together and did not adopt them. Since parts of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning excessive penalties in agriculture have not been adopted on the home working body, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the parent working body has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u7	Thank you, too, for presenting the report. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the Government, Mag. To Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, the rest are present. Today will probably be a good day for us to talk about agriculture, food production and forestry. We do not talk about this in Slovenia, we are not aware of what food security is. But let me start in an unusual way. Today we are talking about penalties in agriculture, although you have seen that the drafter's material does not contain the laws that are most important for agriculture. In fact, agriculture is governed by the Agriculture Act. To the extent that it is known, the amendment was adopted unanimously in this National Assembly. At least in my memory, I have 72 present, 72 in favor. It's a fundamental law. An important law is the Law on livestock, which we have not had time to change, even though it needs to be cleaned because it is too demanding and difficult to implement. There's a lot of talk about the Forest Act. Allow me short information, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Some of you remember, some of you who are here today were sitting 20. 11. At 4:23 p.m. in this Chamber and you voted in favour of the current law of the SDS government, your minister and also your Director-General of the Forestry Directorate. We supported that law at the time, too, and there was no debate on the penalty, so you probably forgot what you accepted at the time. That's when you took higher penalties in the Forest Act than you are now talking about. You've substantially changed your criminal policy. I'll only tell you two, three or four cases. Article 78, which by 2007 laid down minimum penalties for natural persons, i.e. for farmers almost without penalty – in this article you have written penalties higher than those mentioned today. You've imposed a fine of 800 euros for an individual. Today we are talking about penalties for a farmer of 300 euros ahead, with half of them in force. You have imposed fines on responsible persons from thousands to 2 thousand 500 euros, and you have imposed penalties on legal persons from 2 000 to 50 000 euros. You have set such high penalties for several areas, pasture in the forest, where it cannot be carried out, transport of ornamental trees without sealing, but there was no discussion at the time, as the justification was probably such that the laws must be such as to be proportionate, to be dissuasive and to be effective. And the characteristic of the opposition on the left is that when the arguments are good, there is no politics, what you are doing here today. But as far as the Wine Act is concerned, let me just remind you a little bit. At the beginning of last year, the Ministry visited three associations, the association of family farms and vineyards; these are people living from winemaking and winemaking, medium cellars and large cellars. They asked for some things to make life easier and to make it less competitive with the grey economy. They had the Ministry's hands on them. As this group, in which we have then placed the competent inspectors, including our officials who know this area, has proposed, we have also sent the law in such a form to the National Assembly, where the penalties sent here have been reduced, but these were the penalties of the sector which he himself has proposed. But it is, and yesterday's debate has shown that, in fact, there were no vine growers present when we talked about it. There were people present living from winemaking and winemaking, and I must tell you, last week there was a meeting of Slovenian crafts. From the policy on the right there were two parties, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, from politics on this side Social Democrats, others I do not remember, and one of the successes that the craftsmen announced – I do not know if Positive Slovenia was also a positive Slovenia, I apologize, by correcting the mistake. So one of the successes the craftsmen have announced, you said that at least in this area you are introducing order, that those who live from the field are also more protected. And that's what you're attacking here today. I believe we'll all take a lot of time to talk today. I've got some wrong claim to answer. Indeed, in the last 10 years, when we are in the European Union, the value and quantity of agricultural production have decreased. It is also true that we were in incredible danger when we entered the European Union, because we have been isolated from the market, the borders have been almost closed, so our agriculture and industry have not been able to adapt, but the relatively good policy of the last 10 years has made it possible for most of the farms to survive, some of them have become very pervasive, and in the meantime something has happened that, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, who have proposed today's meeting, you will not want to hear, but I must tell you. Real growth, physical, value and factor income – measured the performance of agricultural production – was present in 2011. In 2010, after many years of decline, agriculture began to grow according to the indicators we are monitoring. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that in 2012, but it wasn't your government's fault, it was a difficult situation, and it looks like we're getting back together this year. If you look at the statistics for January and February of this year, as well as some data for December and November of last year, what do you see? Please note that we have an increase of 11 to 13 % per month in the value of the agricultural product sold compared to the same period last year. Among other things, this is due to the extremely rapid start of paying the payments that farmers need to receive. If you have been paying attention, in February this year we paid almost all the direct payments for 2013. You will say that it is nothing, but if you look, for the first time, the legal framework, that it is time to do so by the end of the 6th month, and if you look at the practice of countries saying that they are in better shape than Slovenia, you will see how great success this has been. Now, ladies and gentlemen, allow some more comparisons. The largest general area covered by any of our inspectors and linked to agriculture is the Agriculture and Environment Inspectorate. In 2012, this inspectorate imposed sanctions in euros for a million 490 thousand, in 2013 for a million 157 thousand and in 2014 for 251 thousand. More for a joke than for some serious analysis, because we know that the inspectorates are acting alone, the ministries are now not involved in their work, but we have made a comparison of how many sentences have been imposed under the right government led by the SDS and under the current government. That's because both governments lasted 13 months, the last nine days, the present, we've taken 18 days into account. And what did we notice? That when they are in power of the left government, farmers are punished less. 17% less fines have been given. Once again, you can also take this as a joke, because this is basically what statistics show – ministries are not involved, but statistics show it. The following area of agricultural burden is correction or recovery after years, as regards the implementation of direct payments and the rural development programme. I must say, this is where we see progress as well. We note that in essence – and here I think I have to commend our farmers and farmers and also their advisers – this is an agricultural advisory service – payments that farmers have to pay back from year to year. If in 2008 there were 2 million 300, in 2009 3 million 700, in 2010 2 million 900, in 2011 2 million 900, in 2012 million and last year a million and a half. So, even this burden, which is due to the better conduct of procedures, that counselors are likely to do their job well, this agricultural burden is decreasing. I could also tell you the burden of what the Slovenian police are doing, but I won't tell you because the amounts are so small that I just don't think it's necessary. But I would like to tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen, I think you will allow me. The area under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is an extremely important segment of consumer protection. We are obliged, we are the ministry that protects consumers, that the food they eat is safe from harm. Maybe one description of how much depth is here. In 2012, fines of €388,000 were imposed, €547,000 in 2013 and €144,000 this year. On this segment, if we look at reality, the fines under the current government have slightly increased. If half a million fines have been imposed under the previous government, there are now almost 600,000 euros. Why? Because the inspection of food safety is not only carried out systematically according to annual plans, but was carried out on action plans. You often see our competent inspectors working on Saturday, Sunday, during the holidays, chasing what needs to be pursued. They are pursuing unfair competition that is most damaging to farmers, and they are ultimately protecting us who are consumers. Dear Director, if you look at this picture. Look at this picture. This picture is this year, but last year it happened – what? We found that we actually found last year that people who show up in Slovenia as Slovenian producers go to Italy, buy berries, cherries, whatever, at a low price and then sell them in Slovenia at a significantly higher price. And we have found that even when we monitor them, we have trouble monitoring the data – we have arranged this by amending the law that you all confirmed this year – and that the penalties are ridiculous. Last year's sentence was only €40. And you say to yourself, "That's not a big mistake." However, this is a terrible mistake because, due to this error, Slovenian buyers in some markets no longer believe in Slovenian farmers and it is significantly harder to sell. Indeed, in this area, the penalties have risen three times; instead of 40 euros, I think that those who make such scoundrels are now paying 100 euros. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, 100 euros is half. This was an agreement in Parliament. It wouldn't bother me personally if I had to pay more. We talked a lot about wine, ladies and gentlemen. I've already told you how the law came about. You are also aware that you have already halved your sentence within the parliamentary procedure. You are also here to take a critical look at the laws that are coming, to consult, and to adopt political assessments. However, I must say the numbers that we will all understand what we are talking about. At the time of the previous government, fines were imposed in the area of wine-growing offences in an incredible number: €21,000. You know how big the sector is. At the time of this government – this law has been in force for some time – it has become even more important, worth 12 000 euros. And today, to say that with 12 thousand euros someone is destroying the sector, I will not use the adjective, but probably the range of such a statement you see, respected and respected, myself. Let me just say one last thing. During today's debate and even after today's debate, we will have a meeting to discuss direct payments. And we'll figure out what? We will find that in fact we all want food production in Slovenia to be greater, that we all want farmers to live better. And we will also find that at the last European negotiations, which were partly conducted under the Pahor government, partly under Janševa and then under the rule of Alenka Bratušek, we have achieved a great deal. We have also achieved a great deal because we did not use agriculture to fight everyone, but because we were able to actually figure out what our common interests were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u9	Thank you, too, for the introduction of the Government's opinion. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is as follows. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have pointed out several times that both this year and next year are crucial to Slovenian agriculture, which does not necessarily mean good for farmers, on the contrary. At the beginning of this year, a mandatory farm bookkeeping was put in place, the total income of the members of the farm household from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the transitional year exceeding EUR 7 000 500. The start of this year has also resulted in a transitional period during which 50 % of the subsidies were included in the tax base of basic agricultural and forestry activities. From now on, the tax base will include a 100 % amount of subsidies, which is estimated to represent around 10 million additional tax burdens for Slovenian farmers. Although the issue of cadastral income over the next few years has been resolved in some way, there is a bill in the procedure that preserves the method of determining the level of cadastral income as established last year. Therefore, for the following years, this remains at the level of 2013. In addition to this, there is still a number of inconsistencies regarding the implementation of direct payments in the period 2015-2020, which we will discuss at the meeting of the committee responsible after the end of today's debate, and the unknown fate of the rural development programme for an already ongoing financial perspective, the abolition of milk quotas in 2015 and others. This is only part of the problems that employ Slovenian farmers. Undoubtedly, the problems that are worth talking about also include high fines for offences affecting the agricultural field and prescribed by our legislation. We therefore support today's debate on this issue, but we fear that any concrete changes will not be made as fines must change within individual laws. We warned about the unreasonable amount of fines for farmers and craftsmen, who also amount to 50,000 euros for certain offences, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group last year at the time of the adoption of the amendment to the Forest Act, which imposed infamous carriers. As we recall, the initial sentences proposed in this law were about three times higher than they eventually imposed. Nevertheless, the current fines in this law, in our view, are disproportionate to the gravity of the offence, and the question is also whether they are in line with the European Regulation on the Traceability of Wood, which has changed the law. As proposed by today's meeting, similar disproportionate penalties are also laid down in the Wine Act, where fines for certain offences have increased up to twice, and in the proposed amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which is already in the legislative process. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with these statements, because the fines prescribed are particularly high for legal persons and in our opinion they go beyond the purpose of deterrence. We fear that such penalties are more likely to discourage individuals from carrying out agricultural activities than to deter them from engaging in illegal practices. Unfortunately, this does not apply only to agriculture but also to other activities. At the end of last week, we were also warned by craftsmen about disproportionate penalties. The fines for those who are legally engaged in an activity are inadequately higher than the fines for slumberers who work in black, take jobs for craftsmen and constitute unfair competition. Therefore, some are also forced to use illegal methods, ranging from not issuing invoices to not charging the work of services provided if they want to keep their jobs or remain competitive. So, on the one hand, we tend to increase fines for natural persons who are employed in black and on the other hand the tendency to reduce disproportionately high penalties for legal persons and independent entrepreneurs and agricultural operators. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that today's debate on the levels of punishment in agriculture is welcome, and we hope that it will bring some new idea on how to regulate the area of fines in agriculture in the most fair way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. It's a nice greeting for everyone! This time, too, the proposer of today's extraordinary meeting on the subject of excessive penalties in agriculture did not disappoint all those who wondered what else could be the reason for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Will it be the reinterpretation of Minister Virant or perhaps the first to be Minister of the Jews, to be found guilty of very cold May weather or possibly sabotaged car batteries, or something third, such as quasi-high punishment in agriculture? The proposer has decided to launch an electoral campaign in a way that cannot be seen as illegal, despite the fact that the date of the early elections is not yet fully known and confirmed. In this way, we can only congratulate the proposer on the rapid reaction and reference of extraordinary meetings with populist content that arouse sympathy and positive reactions during the electoral base in terms of increasing support in public research. Such meetings with populist content can probably be expected to do more until the elections. Why do we in the DeSUS Group feel that today's topic of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is populism? For this I must return a few more days ago, when the government of Janez Janša was still in power and was preparing a proposal to amend the Law on Forests. If the law had been adopted exactly as the government had then prepared, Slovenian forest owners would be burdened annually with EUR 2 million, as would the cost of issuing decisions and carriers. There is no clear indication, however, that in the time of the previous government, that Mr Bogovic's ministry, on the basis of the provisions of the Forest Act, approximately once more penalties were collected than during the Minister's time. The mere distortion and distortion of data in the request for an emergency meeting is also interesting. The proposed extraordinary meeting, for example, stated in the paper that a farmer who drives 5 cubic metres of wood without a carrier or with an incomplete carrier can be punished with a fine of up to 50,000 euros. Those who have made little effort to read the law in force find that such a claim is for malicious fraud, since under the applicable law, the forest owner may carry up to 8 cubic metres of timber without a carrier for his own use. The Minister shall also be subject to the high penalties laid down in the Wine Act. In doing so, the applicant clearly and probably deliberately overlooked the fact that this bill and the amount of penalties were prepared on the basis of the demands of winemakers, whose unfair competition not only consumed their income, but also undermined the reputation of the entire Slovenian wine industry by selling wine of a lower quality. Even with regard to the novel Law on Nature Conservation, which is still in the parliamentary process, we cannot agree in the DeSUS Group that the penalties are too high. We have been working in our parliamentary group for some time to prevent the harmful effects of motor or self-propelled driving in the natural environment and in particular in the unexploded areas, since we believe that such irresponsible driving is harmful to nature and is particularly dangerous for both humans and animals. According to our assessment, the applicable fine for such a ride is ridiculously low because it is only slightly less than €42, or only €21, half if paid within 8 days of the issue of the payment order. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, when preparing the proposal, the proposer has ignored the constitutional principle of the division of power. In some parts, the proposal interferes with the principle of the division of power and foresees solutions that are not compatible with the legal system and constitutes an unacceptable intervention by the legislative branch of the authorities into enforcement. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is a real indicator that today's request for an early electoral campaign is an exceptional one, and we do not want to underestimate the importance of forestry or winery for Slovenian agriculture. We would just like to point out that, according to our assessment, it would be more reasonable to point out some other issue that is strongly emerging in Slovenian agriculture, such as the abuse of calls such as those made a few years ago when, in order to adapt to climate change, as much as 99% of the funds were spent on purchasing a new tractor, which, according to our assessment, is not a serious adaptation to climate change, but we would expect, for example, the purchase of water protection networks or irrigation systems. Finally, let me touch the affairs that broke out last summer when Slovenian journalists discovered that many defenders buy vegetables and fruits in Italian markets and then sell them as domestic ones in Slovenia. At that time, the opposition demanded higher penalties for violators, i.e. higher penalties for those who represent a smaller proportion of the party's voters for today's extraordinary meeting, and lower penalties for their voters – that is not the case. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore do not agree with the requirements and proposals of the recommendations on excessive penalties in agriculture and we believe that offenders must pay for the offence. If the penalty is too low, it does not have any effect, but of course it must be proportionate and in accordance with the economic situation of the offender, which is also taken into account by inspectors when imposing higher fines than the minimum prescribed. But it is so in life that the amount of punishment is dealt with by those who break the law, by others who act honestly, that we have no problem with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u13	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u14	Dear President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We Christian Democrats see that unfortunately we confirm our prediction, which we have been repeating for a good year. Apparently, he's an honest Slovenian farmer again, as he was 60 years old, state enemy number one. The current government consistently enforces regulations that show distrust of the Slovenian countryside and impose a heavy burden on Slovenian agriculture. The conditions for farming and farmers are not very favourable. On the contrary, agriculture in Slovenia is neglected and agricultural work is undervalued and also poorly paid. Christian Democrats stand for low taxes and weak public administration. The country should set an example for citizens through its own transparent business and clear laws and thus encourage them to respect the laws. We believe that the current government has taken the wrong path by increasing the fines and penalties in its resignation. We doubt that very high penalties and fines act resiliently. On the contrary, according to our experience from field visits, they only increase the apathy and agony of Slovenian farmers. Citizens and citizens tell us that the current Slovenian government only increases penalties and taxes, but there is no assistance, relief and encouragement. The old Slovenian proverb says that whoever does, quickly does, twice does. The government is working in agriculture on the opposite side. Some farmers have not yet received compensation for drought, and with regard to their acorns, the picture on the ground shows that the situation is even worse than the Ministry has found and that further incentives are needed. In Novi Slovenije, we were keenly opposed to the introduction of a transport document, so-called carriers, which should accompany the transport of forest forest varieties. In our view, this means a new unnecessary burden on forest owners. In particular, farmers would be subject to an additional bureaucratic procedure, which would make normal work more difficult for them. We are counting on the next team at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to finally shut down the carriers we have been opposed to in Novi Slovenija. With all these farmers, even higher cadastral income is at stake. It is good that at least the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has defended farmers from the worst disaster that the planned property tax would bring. We can conclude that the current government is in no way aware of the importance of agriculture, especially the high levels of self-sustainment and the high standards of safe food for the country. As such trends continue, farms will remain largely empty, as young people do not have any motivation to take over, develop further, and live on farm. Farmers and their ancestors have accumulated their possessions, and it is the duty of the country to support, respect and relieve such people, but not to do exactly the opposite in practice. For this reason, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u16	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Guests, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed today's meeting because we care about agriculture and rural areas. In view of the report on the state of agriculture in recent years, we can be concerned, even though we have listened to a minister who claims otherwise. Slovenia has at least agricultural areas for the processing of food per inhabitant among the countries of the European Community. Of these, two thirds are in a restricted area where processing cannot be competitive for farms in countries with much better farming conditions. Self - care is also worrying, as it does not reach half the necessary food. More than half of the feed is imported by farmers in the area of milk and beef. The average farm, which processes the poor 6.5 hectares of agricultural areas, does not allow for farm survival, and young people do not choose to take over farms. They prefer to go to the company or even abroad to ensure their survival. The average age of the farm operator in Slovenia is over 60 years. Smaller farms must therefore decide whether to increase the added value by additional activities on the farm or to abandon farming and rent land to larger farmers. These larger farmers, on the other hand, are not usually able to process all the land on large slopes or too narrow plots, which are usually difficult to access. Such agricultural land is so left to vegetation, which is also a major problem of our agricultural policy, which no one wants to see. It is very difficult for older small-scale farmers to follow the constant changes in regulations and the new requirements imposed by the European Community, and instead of helping these farmers with all their expertise, the country has apparently decided by high fines to accelerate the collapse of the smaller, uneducated farms, which are traditionally and sustainable. In the last period, this government has abnormally increased its fines in the area of forestry, where it is poorly managed by private-owned forests, and in the field of wine-growing, especially small-scale vineyards, where it follows only the interests of larger producers. Since the National Assembly also has a supervisory function in specific areas, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we have decided to draw attention to the disproportionateity of the depths of serious violations in agriculture and to propose certain recommendations. In Slovenia, although we are overly irregular in all areas, in all laws, not just agricultural ones, the prescribed fines are not well thought out and are not based on expert analyses of the consequences of such high penalties in practice. It is also a question of what is the purpose of criminal policy. Here we listened to a minister who also talked about statistics, which is mainly about penalties in the field of wine-growing. The Agriculture Act, which we have also supported in our Group of Members, is not so innocent. At least compared to certain penalties applicable from 28. Seven. 2012, they're unlike 29. 4. 2014 much higher. In particular, it is also an individual, since, for example, Article 177 states that a fine of EUR 200 to 600 for an offence is punishable by an individual, that is, effective on 24 days. 5. For the same offence, it is from 29. This year's 4th fine of €600 to €000 800, which is three times higher, by making a recommendation in Article 178a of this Act, I will quote: "For offences under this Act, a fine may also be imposed in a swift procedure in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down by this law." It is said that the law recommends that inspectors be able to weigh a higher penalty for the first case than the lowest one laid down by this law. Therefore, it does not apply that the basic law also does not increase the penalties. Then we also mention the Law on Forests, where I will not now mention carriers, the nonsense of these carriers, which are frozen for one year, but will apply this year. We also have disproportionate fines, for example, for an offence where an individual exceeds a ten-year sentence – let a ignorant individual quickly commit this offence – punishable by between €800 and €2,000. Is that a relative offense? Or, for example, an offence if it grazes in the forest, when this is not allowed with a forest-based plan when it is not available – it is also a penalty of between €400 and €800. We have cases where game from state hunting grounds graze farmers still on agricultural surfaces, not just forests, and it's grown abnormally, so that comrades go to trophies, and I don't know how we separate this, whether it breeds cattle or grazes game. Here in Parliament, the mayors also said that even some deer mixes between cows and goes to the barn. And we punish you with such fines where I think it's pointless. Then the Wine Act – the minister here admitted that the change in legislation in this area is to plague the grey economy, although I would like to hear an explanation of what is gray economy in small vineyards, when they pay all the taxes to the state through tax, catastronomic income and through excise duties, if they have a vineyard so large that they have to report the crop. But there's a lot of those who have smaller ones, which is a hobby of vineyarders, as the minister said. In fact, the average size of the vineyard in Slovenia is just over 20 acres. This is said to be a large, large majority of vineyard owners of vineyards' hobbies, but they produce more than they consume themselves, and this last law makes it impossible for them to sell wine, except for bottled wine, and for which it is necessary to have a certain technology, suitable space for wine to be properly prepared for bottles and also bottles. Of course, this is out of the question for a smaller winegrower. We have this year's case, when a particular worker of the drill got a top score on the evaluation, produced a thousand liters of cricket, which he spends himself perhaps 200, 300 litres, and the question is what's going to happen to the rest. He says he's going to give it to someone, or he's going to pour it away, but he can't sell it. When the minister showed the picture of the dams that were buying vegetables at the fairground and then sold under another name, he could himself bring a picture of what the mustard looked like, where the concrete pillars were standing on the chopped vineyard and at the end of the vineyard of the walled vineyard, and what it would look like in a few years, when the vines, which no one would spray and recharge, would be passed on to the vineyards of the larger producers. Who, then, will be responsible for the consequences of those who will manifest themselves? Of course, this government has gladly listened to large farmers living out of it, as agricultural production, as the Minister says, is larger and agricultural land cultivation is greater, and the number of farms is decreasing. Where, then, does the importation of feed increase so that more food is produced in our country? Instead of helping smaller farmers to process as many agricultural land as possible to produce as much healthy food as possible, the Government has decided to use high penalties to intimidate these farms, especially those older ones who are not as susceptible to various changes in regulation and technology. With these measures, the government will help to make more land more fertile and people will give up better agricultural land to larger farmers, and the land that is in areas with difficult processing conditions will heal, and no one cares that we have enough food. But if the food is healthy, you, Mr. Minister, buy a salad on the market without analysis. The cheapest analysis is to offer it to the horse, and if he doesn't try it, believe me, it's not good for her, even though she went through all the labs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The Minister will be given the floor as soon as we have passed the general debate of Members and Members. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u18	Good day again! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we are disappointed by the fact that the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings is being abused in order to obtain political points. The raising of fines with agricultural laws, of course, I am talking about forests and wine, because it was necessary to take a measure by which the coalition fights against the grey economy. The prescribed fines for many offences were too low to deter offenders. This is particularly important in the absence of sufficient control that we have in most areas. In Positive Slovenia, we have already advocated in the discussions on the Law on Forests and the Law on Wine that the amount of fines must be such that it has an appropriate disstimulating effect that will contribute to the achievement of the main objectives of the laws, if we remember, of course, that in the Republic of Slovenia, a million cubic metres of wood is illegally cut each year, that the profits in these transactions can, of course, be easy and deceptive, even at the current level of fines in many countries. If we lower our fines again, the illegal logging will be even more attractive. At the same time, we must not forget that the damage to illegal logging is not only less tax inflows, but non-professional cuts also cause long-term damage to forests. Of course, no one who respects the law needs to be apprehensive, regardless of the height prescribed. The only group to gain by reducing the fines is a group of those who wish to make money with illegal logging in Slovenian forests. A similar story is found in the field of wine transport. Such a profit can be a common place that goes to the detriment of all of us, including the vast majority of honest farmers and forest owners. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will not hold back and support the protection of lawbreakers, so we opposed the proposed recommendations. We believe that it has been too little time to thoroughly assess the effects of recent changes in the law. Let me reiterate the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that the points of the recommendations are unclear or exceed the principle of the division of power and are controversial about compliance with the legal system. Therefore, the recommendation would in no way help to improve the situation in agriculture. This does not mean, of course, that in Positive Slovenia we are satisfied with the results in agriculture and the implementation of agricultural policy from 2007 onwards, which is linked to the distribution of EU money, but this is, of course, another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Members of the SDS have requested the convening of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to address the issue of allegedly excessive penalties in agriculture. They are convinced that in the last year the amended legislation has imposed enormous penalties on those who commit minor offences. It is the criminal provisions of the three laws, namely the Law on Forests, the Law on Wine and other Unaccepted Amendments to the Law on Nature Conservation. The SDS assesses that the penalties for agricultural offences are clearly inconsistent with the penalties for offences in other areas. One of the decisions proposed for the approval of the National Assembly recommends that the Government, which has been carrying out only ongoing business since Thursday, take immediate action to reduce the agricultural penalty. In doing so, the government is expected to draw up expert bases for the regulation of agricultural and environmental penalties, which is expected to produce a further analysis. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we note and point out that this is another of the many extraordinary meetings required by the SDS, which is currently more than clearly intended exclusively for an election campaign, with the SDS being able to see that it has chosen an unfortunate issue that is difficult to relate to elections to the European Parliament. In doing so, it is still completely incorrigible, for the reasons for citing today's extraordinary meeting, it mentions in essence the recycled evidence made by the SDS at the stage of the examination of the government's novelty of forest laws and the wine to which they have added the newly introduced amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which has not been addressed by the mother's working body, nor by the National Assembly, and which does not at all fall within the framework of agricultural laws or acts. Thus, the Nature Conservation Act has not yet been examined or adopted and is therefore irrelevant to the debate. Moreover, it is not substantively relevant to the debate on the high penalties in agriculture, since it is a law that belongs in the field of the environment. It is true, however, that it falls within the competence of the Minister of the Jews, which cannot be the only reason for inclusion in the request for an extraordinary meeting. However, such political analphabetism should not be afforded by the biggest opposition party that has run two governments. So it's also a trade-underaverage and bad product from the SDS political workshop. Last but not least, we are reminded of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which reminds us that the applicants of the meeting or SDS, in dealing with such diversity, exceed the framework of the requirement itself to mix the various objectives to which they are following or proposed laws, and that the recommendations proposed are inconsistent with the principle of the division of power. The National Assembly cannot conclude that sanctions in agriculture are disproportionate to the gravity of the offence on the basis of certain individual cases. For such a finding, all agricultural rules should be systematically reviewed. Although the National Assembly may, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, in the form of a recommendation, propose measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers, in cases of specific recommendations to prevent the legislative branch from being involved in the work of the executive branch. For those reasons, we rejected all the recommendations in the Group of Non-Aligned Members at the meeting of the home working body yesterday. It is also important that the SDS recommendations were not voted on by any of the remaining parliamentary groups, including opposition groups, which means that the requirement for an extraordinary SDS meeting is totally inappropriate and represents a mere waste of the time of the National Assembly. However, if we return to the explanation of the very requirement for an extraordinary meeting, in the Group of Unbound Members, we note that the SDS, as a party who once led the government, should be aware that the rules governing offences in Slovenia can only be applied in accordance with the Act on Offences, and that the provisions of the first part of the Act, namely substantive provisions, apply to all offences established in Slovenia by laws, regulations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and decisions of the Self-Governmental Local Communities. In view of the above, in determining the amount of fines in all areas, and not only in the field of agriculture, it is necessary to take into account Article 17 of the Law, which lays down the rules to be followed by the competent authorities in the provision of fines for individual offences in the relevant legal acts. The general framework for fines in agriculture is therefore set out in Article 17 of the Law on Offences. When preparing individual special legislation, fines shall be determined on the basis of the gravity of the offence itself and the resulting damage caused. The sanctioning of violators should be placed in a broader social context and the importance of a dual preventive impact should also be assessed in the context of a specific offender and general in terms of preventing and suppressing future potential offenders. In preparing legislative proposals, analyses and assessments of the effects of criminal provisions are thus made on a case-by-case basis. This aims to ensure that fines are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The legal framework for the regulation of fines is therefore sufficiently specified in the Law on Offences and it is therefore not necessary to draw up expert guidelines for the regulation of fines in the field of agriculture and the environment. Not to mention that the Government cannot, as the SDS proposes, proceed immediately to the reduction of agricultural fines, as the fines are prescribed or laid down by the legislator, namely us, the National Assembly. The SDS should therefore be aware that, if it is dissatisfied with the amount of fines, the latter amendments can only be proposed by amending legislation, which it can finally do on its own. I'm surprised she hasn't done it yet, but maybe it'll be another excuse for another session to follow. In addition, the SDS would like to point out what is the purpose of defining offences and determining fines in agriculture, forestry and nature protection. This is primarily the protection of the consumer, the protection of producers from unfair competition, the protection of business operators doing business honestly, and the protection of forests and nature in general. Therefore, the SDS should be taken seriously, in our opinion, over its proposals. For example, if we touch the Law on Wine or in this law certain penalties for wrongdoing. The law provides for the strengthening of both basic principles of law, namely consumer protection and protection for grape growers or wine producers. Thus, increased control protects consumers from misleading about the origin and quality of wine, while producers of grapes and wines from unfair competition. The law also restricts the pouring of unboiled wine in catering establishments, thereby further guaranteeing both basic principles of the law. Therefore, the debate at the time did not even run in the direction of excessive fines. Therefore, the proposed changes were prepared and agreed with the Slovenian Wine Society, the Association of Family Winegrowers – Slovenian Winegrowers and the Association of Winegrowers and Winemakers of Slovenia. Nor did the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion of the height of fines raise any issue. As regards the Law on Forests, it should be recalled that the legislator and the bill-maker justified the adoption of the law by implementing an EU regulation which is the main purpose of preventing illegal logging and related trade. There's data on the urgency of the problem. In Slovenia, according to official estimates, it is illegal to cut about a million cubic metres of wood each year, which then drives mainly abroad, where it is then sold at dumped prices. As a result, the proposaler’s view was that a stricter policy of punishment should be put in place, which would act primarily dissuasively. The National Assembly has thus supported the raising of fines for violators. The amounts set out in the amendment should have an appropriate disstimulating effect that will contribute to the implementation of the main objectives of the law. It is also worth noting that the comparison of the proposed penalties proposed under the previous Janša government's mandate with the law adopted under the current government's mandate does not in any way show any apparent trends in the punishment of the forest owner. The core of the dissuasive effects of penalties is directed at legal persons and legal persons responsible and at the extent of the penalties for individual offences, at qualified offences and at the repetition of violations. What the SDS really wants with this request for an extraordinary meeting is to create in public the impression that this government does not do enough to develop rural and agricultural development, to unduly and disproportionately penalise the Slovenian farmer and to administratively complicate the conduct of agricultural activities. This SDS is a kind of paradox that manifests itself through facts and is in total contradiction with the argument of SDS and the parties of right political provenance. The facts so far show that the current situation of agriculture is most deserving of the left-wing government with Janez Drnovšek, Borut Pahor and Alenko Bratušek. Both Janša’s governments literally captivate far behind those mentioned. This is also proved by the balance sheet of this government. The government of Alenka Bratusek is under the minister of mag. In its 13 months of operation, the actual Jews, unlike the previous 11-month-old Janša government, focused mainly on preventing unfair competition, grey economy and black work and ensuring stability to Slovenian agriculture and food production. It has adopted the following important agricultural acts and measures. This is how it adopted the Agriculture Act, concluded negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, direct payments and the rural development programme 2014-2020, effectively implemented the common agricultural policy measures, carried out advance payments and payments for areas with limited farming opportunities, for agricultural economies affected by last year's drought. The ministry responded effectively to the natural disaster caused by the stomach and I will count the following between the measures and the laws. It adopted an intervention law, the Act on measures to remedy the effects of the acorn between 30 January and 10 February 2014, established sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, where forest damage and natural disasters are prevented and remedied. It adopted amendments to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, adopted amendments to the Law on Forests, carried out the rehabilitation of forests damaged in February's agglomeration, and also adopted measures to prevent additional damage in the forests due to the underprivileged, and drafted a proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Among the other laws adopted, I should also list the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine, the Resolution on the Protection of the Cranium Bee, and finally the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cobile Lipica. Finally, let me conclude with the conviction that the measures listed by the government of Alenka Bratušek will not be the last of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u22	Nice greetings to all present! We have a long afternoon ahead of us again at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, of course again at the request of the SDS Group of Members and the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. What is the interest of the SDS Group of Members of Parliament, 5 of the 26 SDS Members present here in the Chamber, and also colleague Tanko will not have the possibility of procedural speculation, since the entire team of the Ministry of Agriculture is present here, which I congratulate you for. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased that this meeting has been convened, but our reasons for this joy are different from those of the proponents. The proposers requested the convening of this extraordinary meeting and before it the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment on request for free advertising in the form of a direct transmission to TV3, a programme of national television is being developed. The election campaign has begun, although not yet officially, but we are already witnessing to her. That's how I'm gonna act. But we are pleased to finally be able to talk about the punishments and the purpose of the punishment. Why are we punishing him? Why does punishment even need to be punished? Probably not because there would be no offenses and people wouldn't sin. We know the saying that punishment must also be brought up. And the discipline is the punishment that teaches you something. Unless it's the other way around, it's the way to hit you in the pocket. And if you're scared of hitting your pocket, you'll think twice about whether or not you're gonna do the wrong thing. The task of punishment is also to prevent the abuse and misappropriation of legislation, trespassing at the expense of others, theft and so on. Otherwise, I don't know the case of someone forcing someone to literally steal the shade in the woods, selling wine of suspicious quality, unknown origin, Spanish cherry under the title, not listing it. Who do we protect when we punish people like that? We're protecting a local farmer, small and large. Last year, when it was discovered that imported food from trade fairs in Italy was sold in markets, and that the penalties were then 120 euros or half is 60 euros, the so-called half, and we all agreed that the punishment was absolutely too low and that sinners must be punished so that this would not happen again. Today, in the presentation of the SDS, they mention the penalties laid down in the laws passed under Minister Jarz and try to impose them on Minister Židan's shoulders. And the title of today's argument for calling this meeting today is extremely bad, for the hair is attracted, and also for the proponents are running out of arguments and have difficulty defending the urgency of calling this meeting. This has now been seen in these two hours. The SDS shall be made clear to the Minister of the High Penalty laid down in the Law on Forests. However, since the memory is clearly short, I should like to point out that such high penalties were, perhaps even higher, adopted already in the amendment to the Law on Forests adopted by the National Assembly in November 2007. Consider who then led the government and who was then in opposition. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the penalties imposed are not disproportionate to the gravity of the offence, especially because we need to know that the general framework for the amount of fines in agriculture is defined in Article 17 of the Law on Offences, which lays down rules for determining fines. Even if the Minister of Agriculture wanted to have lower fines for offences, he has them laid down in this law. I will conclude by saying once again that the punishment must be brought up. But only if the offence is committed can it be punished. So the key question is whether the penalties are too high or people are doing too much to be disturbed and affected by high penalties. Statistics show that the threat of high penalties has already contributed to the reduction of offences, and relatively few penalties have been imposed. True, I repeat, this meeting is the EPP for SDS, which expects good electoral results at the expense of promises such as: we will reduce taxes, we will reduce penalties, we will not introduce property taxes and more. We Social Democrats are proud of the success of the Jewish Minister with the team present here. This one-year mandate already shows positive trends in the regulation of many of the Ministry's demanding tasks. I am confident that it will be time for the team with Minister Židan to prove again that it is highly professional and successful in favour of agriculture in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the Minister with his team and everyone present on behalf of the National Gazette! Today's topic, today we are talking about overly high penalties in agriculture, although the applicants in this topic or in the text do not touch on the umbrella law in force in this area, this is the Agriculture Act. In the introductions, however, it is necessary to emphasise or clarify that, as in the Republic of Slovenia, all laws comply with the Constitution, all the rules governing offences in Slovenia must be in line with the Law on Offences. All fines, not only in the field of agriculture, must be taken into account within the maximum and minimum levels set out in Article 17 of the Offences Act. And when drafting legislative proposals, analyses and assessments of the effects of criminal provisions shall be made on a case-by-case basis. This, of course, always follows the objective of effective, proportionate and dissuasive fines. We can therefore find that the legal framework for the regulation of fines is sufficiently specified in the Law on Offences and therefore the preparation of any professional guidelines for the regulation of fines in the field of agriculture and the environment is not necessary, as proposed by the drafters with their conclusions, which did not receive sufficient support on the labour market yesterday. Proposers limit themselves to the Law on Wine, the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation when they miss a large number of laws in this area and compare it in some way with the Law on the Tax Procedure. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nature Conservation has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure, but is not yet in force, and we have the legislative procedure just to amend the text, to supplement it or to consider it inappropriate, even to withdraw it. So my first conclusion is that the proponents are having a problem with something that is not yet in force. And that kind of reminds me of the idea of Minister Virant when he thought aloud or took the initiative to unite the congregations and got the interpellation. The Minister of the Jews gets an extraordinary session if he writes something down on paper. There's something similar about the Forest Act. The fact is that carriers are not a measure for which they would applaud the current minister with great enthusiasm. It is also true that the proposal has been written and even coalition coordination has taken place in the previous government, under the previous government. Europe is simply demanding the traceability of wood, and even in this case it has proved too good to say too much too much, I will say too much too fluently, we will sum up the rules of the European Union, we will further complicate them in Slovenian to the point of being unrecognizability, whether Minister Bogovic or Mr Židan. However, the fact is that carriers are not currently in force is frozen, the provisions they provide do not apply, and therefore cannot be implemented or enforced in practice, fines or penalties in this area. Thus, the only law under which fines can be applied remains and is listed in the drafters' material, the Wine Act, which we adopted at the end of last year and which is or is applicable since mid-January of this year. In any event, there are 4 months too short to assess or evaluate the potential effects of excessive fines. The fact is that the Members of this Act have accepted this law at the request of wine-growing associations, wine producers and associations in this area. A proposal for a amendment to this law, which provided for three times the fine in its original text, came before the Members. We could say that we reached a political or party compromise, and the finally adopted text was such that we corrected or corrected the fines by 1.5 times. The purpose of defining offences and determining fines in agriculture, forestry and nature protection is not in the first place what some like to repeat in order to destroy Slovenian agriculture, but primarily consumer protection, the protection of farmers from unfair competition, the protection of business operators engaged in fair business, forest protection and nature protection in general. This objective must be pursued. If we draw below the line, the arguments for calling an extraordinary meeting will quickly dissipate as ground bubbles at the time of a superficial, surface-view of this area. In fact, we are at a time when we will look again for our trust in the electorate. I would also like to discuss more important issues related to agricultural development in the agricultural sector during this period. As I know that farmers, food growers are honest and working people and fines as such will not be exposed, the subject of the amount of fines in agriculture does not deserve an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. What is crucial and worthy of our attention at this time is the introduction of a reform of direct payments, a rural development programme for a new financial perspective. With these topics, we will help Slovenian agriculture, not political confusion with fines. With regard to fines and penalties, it would be more prudent to say something in connection with the savage privatisation and approval of unsecured bank credits, where there were significantly more irregularities than on Slovenian farms.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u25	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Before I give the word "magic." Diane Jedhan, would you like to proceed with the procedure? Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, thank you. I give the word "magic." Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to correct a few mistakes that have been made. The current government has not imposed a penalty for grazing in the forest. This was introduced in 2007. You know what government the minister was then. That's when you introduced that if they graze in the woods, a farmer has to pay between 400 and 800 euros in fines. Before 2007, this was EUR 125. At that time, you also imposed penalties in some other areas, but we will continue to discuss this. By the way, for Mr Lach or for Mr Robert Hroat, someone said that – food should not be tested on a horse. This is an illegal attempt in accordance with Slovenian and European legislation, and please do not do this nicely. And the next thing about KD. They're not all taxed. In fact, not all are taxed and in fact some wine growers are unfairly competing if the sale of untaxed wine is to those who sell and live on it. If we look at the case of what's taxed, where's the cadastral income. The limit is approximately 0.6 hectares of vineyards. And if we look at Dolenjska, respected and respected, in fact, there are 6,000 600 untaxed vineyards and 420 taxed. It is right that they produce wine, it is right that they consider it a hobby, but it is not right that those who are untaxed compete with those who live on it. In addition, it will not be possible for Slovenia to grow in advance. That's not what the data shows. I'll read you the data from the end of 2012 and then from the end of 2013. In 2012 we had a total of 554 thousand 420 hectares, in 2013 at the end of 455 thousand 534 so a thousand hectares more. I wish there was more, but in any case there's no healing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has asked for the floor as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the topic that we are talking about right now, and these are penalisations in the area of agriculture and the environment – we can also complement with the environment – is an important topic. Otherwise, the response of all those who somehow tried to discredit this area would be different. It is clear that the Slovenian Democratic Party is using the time in which, for some pre-election battles, we are, in fact, perfectly moving. As far as sectoral legislation is concerned, if I recall only the last two projects of this government, it is the Wine Act and the Forest Act, in these two laws we have been actively opposed to the solutions that they are, and, of course, to the measures that follow. Last but not least, I asked the Minister of Agriculture at the previous meeting with an oral question on a similar area, but there was no appropriate response and there was no adequate support in the coalition for a debate in the State Assembly on the Minister's response. Therefore, do not report to the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party if we have actively opposed the solutions proposed in all our efforts so far. That's what we suggested. I think that your conclusion, so-called coalition Members and Acting Minister, could be more correct. The second question concerns more the procedural part of what Members are allowed to do. You know, the fact that you're pleading that we shouldn't suggest something to the government or ask the government to do something is, to say the least, confused with all common sense logic, regardless of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The National Assembly is not just to address the proposals proposed by the Government and only within the limits within which the government allows discussion. If we can talk about the Forest Act, if we can talk about the Agriculture Act, the Wine Act, the Offences Act, and I don't know what else, we can also talk about policies in this area. This is, in fact, the primary task of the National Assembly to talk about guidelines and developments in specific areas. And whatever we propose from this power to the Government as the executive branch of the Authority, there is nothing inconsistent with any legal act in this country. The separation of power is certainly because the government has to propose certain things. He also has a staff member to prepare this, and the matter is being processed as it is being processed. We are the ones who deal with these matters in one way or another. As for the talk now, say, about some of the solutions that are before us — say, talk about the carrier. This is a document whose weight in the business of anyone is substantially overvalued. With this document, you will not prevent any sale of forest wood varieties anywhere, not in Austria, not in Italy, nor in the neighbor to the saw, nor in the other region within the Republic of Slovenia, anywhere, anywhere. That's what you're trying to talk about. However, it is a fact that, for example, in the Road Traffic Rules Act, if you look at Article 16 thereof, it is defined what those involved in road transport must have, and what sanctions there are for these things. And this article refers to the control of drivers, vehicles, equipment, devices and cargo. So we're talking about the driver's license, we're talking about the traffic permit, we're talking about the cargo manifest below and so on. And the penalty, for example, for a person who acts contrary to those documents he must have, that is to say that he does not have them, is EUR 40. You're not gonna believe it. 40 euros. If there's no cargo manifest, it's $40. If he doesn't want to show the document, it's a fine of 160 euros. And you prescribed a penalty for a transporter with regard to forest wood varieties from – how much? 5,000 euros to 50,000 euros. Fifty thousand euros is extreme. Now let someone from the ministry explain to me how it is possible that someone who is carrying a substance on the highway, some cargo, pays if one of these documents does not have or, I don't know, doesn't meet all these conditions, let's say even a traffic permit doesn't have a penalty of, say, €40. But for the carrier, it's a thousand times the penalty. If someone transports dangerous substances, for example, the penalties are substantial, substantially lower, but they do not, say, comply with the law. A few hundred euros is fine. I'll read them to you. I've got everybody here. A few hundred euros. Now I'm asking how dangerous the cargo is to forest forest ranges, what a dangerous burden for human health, for road accidents and so on. Is it worse than poisons, like oil derivatives and the like, that they deserve such a nasty treatment? And it's also about the black market, shopping, and so on. And many more such cases can be found in this part. Also, for example, the Wine Act – these are solutions that concern, say, small vineyards, this is madness. We have a series of small vineyards that produce up to a thousand litres of wine per year, up to a thousand liters of wine per year. It's not a commercial amount, you can't sell it anywhere. There's no inn that would buy it at home. Those who come from such areas know that. It's not a sellable amount of that. And the penalty for someone who won't report 300 litres of must or 500 litres of must and has status and membership in the small vineyard category is up to EUR 6 000 500. A thousand liters of wine is worth a thousand euros. Here's the price, let's say, for a field wine rinfusis, a drill, the best drill, the euro and a half. See, when we talk about what is proportionate, then we must take these circumstances into account. And if you prescribe a small winegrower who hasn't declared a thousand litres of wine or a thousand liters of must worth a thousand euros, you prescribe a fine of 6,000 500 euros, you say six times the value of an annual crop, the penalty isn't proportional, it's not normal, it's not life, and you can laugh, you can think any way, but it is. You have similar solutions in some other cases. For example, we have in fact also pointed out the penal system under the Nature Conservation Act. Indeed, the law is in the legislative process, but we have warned this to see what abnormal things are prescribed in this regulation. When we were warned in the National Chamber of Carriers or, for example, in the Wine Act that these things are non-life, we gave examples – because no one jerked. Did you react? Have you supported any of our amendments in this regard? Did you attract the argument we gave? Nobody! Nobody. The government proposed, the coalition closed and raised its hand. In fact, I think it is inappropriate for someone who points out the problem the 15th time to be further discredited. As far as the transporters are concerned. Notwithstanding being suspended due to conditions, for example, for one year, this does not mean that they will not be implemented after the end of this blocked period. The minister used to talk about how many fines the government had taken. We are not talking about how many penalties have been raised, we are talking about what penalties are prescribed. It is probably only to thank the inspection services that have supervised these areas to act rationally. If any of the inspectors, for any reason, prescribe a penalty that is on the ceiling, then this essentially means decommissioning a small winegrower, the owner of a farm or a forest and so on. Disposal because such punishments "cash" must be impossible for you almost no one can. Neither the Minister nor anyone else in these areas reacts, as we point out. If the dispossessment of one of the agricultural owners is because he has committed some kind of banal offence, the aim of this government or any government sooner or later, then something in this country is seriously wrong. You will find it difficult to find the owner of the farm, even if it is small owners who could have enough cash to pay you such fines. I don't think that's possible. If you look at the way you work in agriculture. For example, a farmer who goes into a forest doesn't go in a wet suit, that's a fact. And you expect some farmer to have every time he goes into the woods, or the owner who wants to drive, I don't know, 15 cubic feet of wood, all the documents with him. How many times does it take between you that he doesn't have a driver's license or a driver's license just because he's changed at home? And if a person who does not have an appropriate document is suspended by the traffic police, it is a penalty if you look at the provisions of the law, wealth, wealthier than a carrier under the Forest Act. These suspects when you talk about how much is sold on black wine or forest wood varieties – all of you things are largely attracted to hair. I think if the government wants to talk about quantities or suspicions about quantities, then it should have some analysis done, some basis, and it's not. Now we're going to lose about five million cubic feet of wood, about five million cubic feet. I think even foreign relief was offered, but it was rejected. Now it's not just about the sorties that are broken. What is now going to happen to the tentacles, to the construction of the tentacles, and, as a result, to the woodworms later, will probably be the worst result, for healthy trees will also be attacked. Those who deal with the forest are more concerned about what will happen to the healthy tree below, than what has already happened to the collapse that has occurred. That's a worse problem. The concern for the underlings is mainly because there are healthy forest trees in danger. Such reproductions of these pests, these insects simply do not tolerate healthy trees. There's been an epidemic in your household. Look, we're in a situation where we can't react in this area. However, it is a symptomatic statement, including a minister who has gone away, that some penalties have been imposed in the time of one government and a different punishment in the time of the other government. I do not think that the implementation of the law in the provisions concerning inspection and enforcement of measures is directly within the competence of the Minister or the Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek. But if it is, then it can limit itself to another consequence that is linked to other guidelines. I think that these things should be carefully considered. Those who support the coalition have missed the opportunity because this is an opportunity to discuss ahead, either for this or for the next government, for this or for the next coalition. And in this area we need to make radical changes, root changes. What is prescribed as a penalty as a sanction must be proportionate to the measure imposed. If someone parks in a protected area, I don't know, 5 meters outside the protected area, there can't be a fine for such an offence of between €5 000 and €10 000, and a side-by-side action to take the asset from which it's caused, I'd say, is a danger. It's unusual, it's abnormal. If because of parking in a protected area, nothing has happened, then it may be a term of imprisonment, such as a wrong parking or something. However, there can be no fine of EUR 5,000 or EUR 10,000 and any addition to it, as is now envisaged in the Nature Conservation Act. And so many strange things are too many, too many. I would expect that we should also be serious about the Group of Members and the Government. This isn't about who's got the game, it's about pre-election time, it's about content. It's about how we treat our people. At the end of the sentence, I won't pay, because I'm not a farmer, because I'm not the owner of the forest, but the one who did. And in Slovenia there is an average of many small estates. In these cases, when such penalties are prescribed, on the other hand, we have a crowd of small people, a crowd of small owners, most of them even those who are already at the end of their lives, saying that they are having trouble even getting a successor to manage their agricultural property. And people like that probably don't get punished like that. It is interesting, however, that, for the person who has hidden EUR 10 million, for 10 million, he is taxed to find tax evasion that the maximum penalty for this smuggler is EUR 50 000, as much as if he does not have a carrier, a maximum of EUR 50 000. Now let someone explain to me whether these two cases, 15 cubic metres, or 200 liters of must, are transported to the constitution and others, or to the roofing law on offences. The penalty is about the same in the nominal amount, at the upper limit, at the upper limit. Is this a proportionate measure? Legal basis – you can check them – we also wrote to you in our request. You can check everything and ask nicely whether what we wrote in our request for an extraordinary session holds or not. If the worst tax offence is a conscious tax evasion, the maximum possible penalty, regardless of whether it is EUR 10 million or EUR 5 million, is EUR 50 000, and if you do not have a carrier, may be the same maximum penalty, then something in this prescription regime does not work, does not work, and the penalties are disproportionate. For someone who caused a bank hole, how many penalties have been collected from this title? Previously, the minister said, "In our government, we've halved the number of fines collected." How many did you increase in the banking system in the main causes of the bank hole? A million cubic cubic feet of dead wood does not cause a bank hole, a million cubits means a few hundred thousand euros or a few million euros of money, not a few billion. The value of forest-forest production is some hundred million euros, I think about 300 million euros if we accounted for all of this. Only the Ljubljanska Bank has shown a net loss of EUR 150 million in one year after recovery. After the rescue, which was enormous. In short, my fellow Members, I propose that we take this subject seriously. It is a pity that you have not adopted any proposals for conclusions, because this would bind this government during a transitional period, because we will work for a while, and the next government that the area concerning the regulation of penalties in the field of agriculture and the environment is aimed at some reasonable direction. What is now written, what has now been proposed, what has been corrected and accepted, is not adequately the weight of the act, the weight of the offence. Keep a bank hole in front of you, keep tax collectors in front of you. Take a look at their heights and see the height of the fine for a farmer who does not have one document called a carrier. On the other hand, the police can stop someone who doesn't have a passport and pay 40 euros. In fact, the carrier has the role of one of the cargo manifests, nothing else. There's nothing else. There's no added value in this system. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. I will now read the order in the light of the fact that some of the speakers have changed the order of the debate. The first will be Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, followed by Mr Richard Braniselj, then Mrs Ljudmila Novak and for her by Dr László Göncz. Mrs. Alexander Osterman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As you know, I come from a nomadic land, the most forested country in Slovenia. The municipality had a thriving economy before independence, people had jobs, people had money for bread, for education, for basic life needs. The municipality has had a selective political approach, and today it is a congregation that deserves the greatest obedience of the country, a municipality that has in fact completely destitute, has no economy, no development, and people do not see any future anymore. But he's got wood. There is wood, a congregation whose only economic potential is wood. Unfortunately, it is also a congregation in which we daily monitor the large quantities of logs being taken out of our forests every day from the nomadic forests. And what is most absurd is that this shade, this wood, this forest from our forests is being driven to neighbouring European countries, Italy and Austria. And what's even more absurd, most of this log is illegally cut. Our once flourishing woodworking industry does not die or die slowly, our woodworking industry in Kočevska has long died. We've lost a lot of jobs. Dear colleagues, the illegal logging is also about losing jobs. And in my opinion, the fines in this area are still too small. Earnings and illegal logging go through the country and the municipal cash register directly into the pockets of these unconscious people who use our forest infrastructure for their work and further destroy our forest infrastructure, which we pay all citizens and citizens and therefore pay our taxes. Illegal logging is a problem. It threatens our future, it endangers jobs, and we care about people. You know, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to see for myself that we do not need any more penalties, but unfortunately there are still people for whom such high sentences are unfortunately too low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I might start by placing the agricultural sector and indicators defining this sector in the Republic of Slovenia. In the last 50 years, one third of the country has grown. Not with quality forest, but with bushes. In the last 20 years, we have lost some 30,000 agricultural holdings. This doesn't just mean that we've grown agricultural areas, it doesn't just mean that we've lost 30,000 destroyers. Above all, it is important that 30,000 farms have been left without knowledge from generation to generation, from century to century, and have survived and had the potential to survive self-sustainment as well. The data, which is actually the most shocking, is said to be true that for a billion EUR 800,000 this country imports food. These are the gabarits that define us. And if I go back to the initiative of today's session, which discusses the issue of punishment in agriculture. The applicants shall be concerned about the penalties at stake. I would fix here – they are not important penalties at risk, they are important penalties that have been imposed. From here to there, of course, light years are far away and the whole type of policy that this country must implement at the level of sanctioning. In 2002, we had an amendment to the Law on Offences, which laid down some misdemeanor punishments. In 2008, on 6 February 2008, this National Assembly adopted a new Law on Offences at the initiative of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, and, of course, the government coalitions, which raised these framework defining the punishment of offences, light years. If the individual had previously been fined up to EUR 1000 200, then there was a penalty for the individual who committed the offence in that country, up to EUR 5,000, for the legal person and for the independent entrepreneur before EUR 125 000, after the new EUR 500 000, the responsible person, the legal person and so on to the limit of EUR 4 thousand and some – a limit of EUR 10 000. The threshold has been raised and the legal framework for prescribing offences in all other legal acts has been raised. And then you obviously didn't have any bad feelings, no bad conscience. You have freed the ranges indefinitely, and these ranges of course now apply to all offences that are prescribed. But as far as I'm concerned, that's not even the problem. The problem is the credibility of the proposer, but once again, I am speaking, they are not the problem of the penalties that are prescribed, the problem is the penalties that have been imposed. And if we look at all the segments that affect how we come from the punishment that is at risk to the punishment that has been imposed, we must follow a whole range of rules that the criminal authorities must also comply with. They must pay particular attention to the gravity of the offence. That's why they're ranges. And there's something else. When we talk about life matters that occur on the ground and that the criminal authority encounters, it must take account of them. First of all, we have the possibility of giving reminders, we have the possibility of giving warnings, we have the possibility of paying half of that fine, the fines on meals and so on. And in the event that there are anomalies, that the person who has been sentenced feels that the punishment is not proportionate, which could be with the gravity of the offence committed, of course may require a request for judicial protection. And if there is an anomaly that this imposed sanction is too severe in relation to life situations, then the court will fine it smoothly, replace it with another, give a warning, give a warning, whatever the case. And that's when we're talking about the life situations that my colleague Tanko was talking about. Automatism is not a threat to automatic punishment, either. There is a whole range of instruments to be taken into account. The case of a tax swindler who conceals a certain amount – colleague Tanko has, of course, pointed to a penalty that is disproportionate, threatened. Do you know what the biggest penalty is for a tax collector? The non-threatening penalties and penalties imposed, the matrimonial interest in financial and criminal offences are the most effective, and therefore we cannot compare these matters. When the tax administration calculates all these late interest payments to be paid, the amount that is from-to and at risk is also completely irrelevant. And there's something else. In these matters, we also talk about the possibility of tax recovery and that we get anything from someone. And that's another area I wouldn't be talking about today. I say, once again, to question the penalties at stake, and not to take into account, in practice, what this means at the level of the penalties actually imposed, but I do not think that is correct here. And there's something else. If one area is excluded from criminal policy, then we also recognise that these areas are not important, that certain areas are less important and that they do not deserve legal protection and equality from the law. Therefore, criminal policy in this country must be transparent, fair in particular, both at the level of prescribing penalties and, above all, at the level of the imposition of those penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Before that, Mr Jože Tanko would like a word as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree with this statement, which Mr Braniselj finally made, that the punishment must be proportionate and fair. In fact, this is the essence of the debate or our request for a discussion at this meeting of the National Assembly. But when you talk about the Offences Act and the former Minister Sturm, it's probably been five years since then. In the meantime, Pahor's government was replaced, and the Minister of Agriculture was Židan, and Janšev's government, when Mr Bogovic was Minister of Agriculture, again we have the government of Alenka Bratušek, who again has a minister. And at that time, we would probably be able to determine, if not sooner, from the discussions we had in the Wine and Forest Act that, with the illegal provisions in agricultural laws, something was seriously wrong. I will read to you again – I will now read the provisions of the Road Traffic Rules Act, Article 16. It shall apply to documents to be held by road users and to the obligations of participants in the control of drivers, vehicles, equipment, equipment and cargo. The first paragraph reads: "The driver is obliged to bear with him a document proving that he is allowed to drive a road vehicle, a valid traffic permit, a cargo document, a driving licence at the time of the ban, as well as a certificate of professional driving experience in carrying out the transport of a group of children." That's paragraph one. And the fifth paragraph of the same article says, "With a fine of 40 euros, a driver shall be punished for an offence which is contrary to the provision of the first paragraph of this Article." 40 euros. If he does not have a carrier and is caught by an inspector on a forest road, it is a punishment – Mr Braniselj, see the Forest Act – from EUR 5,000 to EUR 50,000. Now tell me whether the provision in the Forest Law is proportionate or thousands of times too high or fifteen thousand times too high. Then we have two more provisions, and I'll read those two too. The same Article 16, second indent, states: "The driver shall, at his request, transmit to the authorised official the document referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article." And the third paragraph says, "The driver shall, at the request of the authorised official, allow the inspection of the vehicle, equipment, equipment, cargo and its participation." Then the criminal provision is in the same article, paragraph six provides for this. "A fine of € 160 shall be punished for an offence committed by a driver acting in contravention of the provisions of paragraph 2 or 3 of this Article." I am only talking about what is relative to, say, the offence relating to this regime, and this is the Road Traffic Safety Act. If you'd like, I'll draw you up with the Dangerous Goods Act. It will be difficult for someone in this country to convince me that 10 cubic metres of wood or colds driving without a carrier is more dangerous than, say, transporting poisons, petroleum derivatives and I don't know what else, which belongs to the category of dangerous goods. It's hard for someone to convince me that this is true, but the penalty for transporting refrigeration without a carrier is, to say the least, five hundred times higher than transporting dangerous goods without documents. Now explain to me why this cold is so dangerous, it's being driven out of the forest without a carriage. And perhaps — and we have warned about this in the debate — the one who ordered the transport, even the carrier, does not have it on him. He can even have it, but he doesn't have it with him at the time of this transport. Can anyone explain? It can also involve transporting dangerous goods or oil derivatives for the grey economy. This has already happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I apologize, Mrs Ludmila Novak, and Mrs State Secretary Mag wanted a word. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Let me make it clear once again that the numbers that don't stick are not constantly repeating. The penalty under the Forest Act for transporting timber without a transporter is between EUR 300 and EUR 2 000 if such transport is carried by a natural person. These carriers are not required at the moment. We all know why and when this moratorium applies. However, for legal persons there are 2 000 500 to 50 000 euros, by telling us more than once what is the purpose of the penalty within the range. It is always the practice of inspectors to determine the minimum penalty, and only a higher penalty than the lowest is possible in a rapid procedure when it comes to qualified offenders or repeated infringements. And once again, I must say that the assessment of what the penalties in forestry should have been laid down in 2007 with the amendment when all the criminal provisions were translated from tolars to euros and also increased significantly for individual offences. The Minister said earlier what the penalties had been like before, say, for pasture, we could go for other works, for example, who doesn't do protective work, who doesn't comply with the regulations, who does cleaning in the piss, who breaks the forest without approval, and so on. Prior to 2007, the fine of EUR 125, converted from tolar, for legal persons amounted to EUR 835. In 2007, the law raised these penalties to between €400 and €800 for natural persons and €200 to €42 000 for legal persons. Therefore, for legal persons, the lowest penalty was increased by 1.5 times and the highest possible penalty was increased by 50 times. So much for what it's like to drive without a car. I would also like to draw attention to some things, many times it has been mentioned that farmers who do not register data are being punished. Here were thought to be vineyards if they did not report the crop or report the vineyard. It's always been a first warning, according to inspection practice. I must say that the inspection services issue more than the sanctions in essence than the regulatory decisions, which means that they tell the farmer by decision what he has to do, and if the farmer removes this irregularity, if he declares a crop, if any other irregularity eliminates it, then the fine is not imposed on him at all, because most farmers then have already abolished it. And if I say so again, because, of course, fines are also imposed. According to the Wine Act, for natural persons, including farmers and independent entrepreneurs, a total fine of EUR 2 000 618 was imposed in 2012 for the entire year, for all, and for EUR 8 000 500 for all natural persons in 2013. Let me say one more example of how sanctions are imposed from practice, because we are talking a lot about practice. The inspection at the inn establishment found an irregularly marked wine which did not have the required accompanying documents, and the inspector subsequently found out from the official records, according to the register of grape and wine growers, that the person was processing 1.8 hectares if I rounded up the vineyard and had 9 thousand vines. The farmer — that is, this was the case last year — was punished before this law was enacted, after the law in force. The producer has not declared wine production since 2008 for 5 years, nor has he proved with any document that he sold his wine to the inn as it would have been in accordance with the rules. Thus, the inspector concluded that there was a wine in circulation which had not been assessed, as there was no analysis of the fact that the wine had not been accompanied by the Charter, that the wine had been wrongly labelled and had not reported the stocks. What were the measures? The guest was ordered by a legal decision to withdraw the wine from the transport, the producer was ordered to withdraw the wine from the other transport by legal decision, and the fine for all these offences was EUR 1 000,691 plus the legal fee for the five-year infringement of the legislation. This is just one case. I have another case here. I want to say what my message is that inspection services also want to establish a normal and legal situation and that their first action is to issue a decision or impose on farmers what they must do and how they must operate. And if you get over your shortcomings, then there's usually no punishment. And in the first place, that is the goal, not the collection of punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that again. Law on the transport of dangerous goods, art. 54: "With a fine of thousands of euros, a legal person, an independent entrepreneur, or an individual who carries out an activity on his own, shall be punished for the offence if, as a consignor, he packs dangerous goods in a package which does not correspond to the dangerous goods in the packaging which does not correspond to..." This is a thousand euro fine under the Dangerous Goods Act. Now, I ask you, madam, under the Wine Act, wine is not among the dangerous goods, but if someone does not report 500 litres of must as a small producer, the penalty is up to EUR 6 000 500. Up to 6,000 500 euros! Look at the penal provisions and you'll see. However, worse still, for the same status as I have previously read it, a legal person, a separate entrepreneur of an individual or an individual who carries out an activity on his own and carries dangerous goods in inadequate packages and so on, shall be fined a thousand euros if a person, a separate person, a legal person, an individual undertaking or an individual who carries out an activity on his own, is fined between 5,000 and 50 000 euros if he or she carries forest forest varieties without a carrier on a means of transport. That's what you have in 77.c. Now I am interested in why, for these forest wood varieties of the same independent entrepreneur, an individual, if he does not have a carrier, punishes him for five thousand, which is a minimum penalty of up to 50,000 euros, but if someone carries dangerous goods under similar conditions, it is only up to a thousand euros in fines. Somebody explain this to me! What you are suggesting can be done in a gray market, but it can be done in dangerous substances, in poisons, in derivatives, and in forest forest varieties — and that is probably what is happening. You had cases when the entire chain of oil derivatives, probably poisons, ammunition, and so on, was discovered. What's the difference? For the same definition of a legal person carrying dangerous goods, thousands of euros are fined and between €5 000 and €50 000 for forest forest ranges.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u39	Mag. Tanya Strniša, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u40	Look, it's really disturbing if they keep repeating the same wrong numbers all the time. The sentence below, I have already said, is always pronounced – if it is not a qualified offender, if it is not a repetition, always, the sentence below is imposed. And for legal entities, the lower sentence is 2 thousand 500 and not 5,000. I repeat. You also mentioned a violation under the Wine Act. Under the Wine Act, the lower penalties for serious offences depend on the size of the producer. And if we took a smaller producer and worse offenses, the penalty is between €650 and €6000 500. You're the one who said the sentence. The lowest penalty is always imposed. It's just a smaller farmer and a worse offense. It is true, however, that if it is a large producer over 10 hectares, this lower penalty is a serious offence of EUR 570. Look, I said one case in practice earlier, and the penalty was a thousand and 691 euros. Let's go get some numbers. If this person owns 1.8 hectares of vineyards and 9 thousand vines, it's all my credit, and you can fix me, about 10,000 liters of wine a year. You said yourself how much wine you sell. So, how many liters of wine that was sold without papers, without analysis, and we don't know if it was appropriate, or if it would be suitable for transport, was it such a violation that took place for years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I will read once again, Madam, 77.c. Article of the Law on Forests: "With a fine of between €5,000 and €50,000, a legal person, an individual who carries out the activity on his own, or an independent entrepreneur, who has loaded or transports forest forest ranges without a carrier on a means of transport." Now I will read article 54 of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which says, "With a fine of thousands of euros, a legal person, an independent entrepreneur or an individual who carries dangerous goods in a package that does not meet these conditions shall be punished for the offence." See, both provisions of the law apply to the same status of the person being supervised, the same status of the person for whom the penalty is prescribed, but in the Forest Act the lowest penalty is EUR 5,000 and the maximum 50 000, while in the transport of dangerous goods the penalty is thousands of euros. The essential difference is the same status of legal persons. Now tell me what a special document the carrier is to prescribe a lower sentence of 5 times higher than here the limited penalty and a cumulative penalty of 50 times higher than the transport of dangerous goods. We can do a similar analysis with the Wine Act. Explain that to me. You're saying it's the basis of the Offences Act, that it's a roof law for these standardized cases. Explain why the carrier is 5 times as important a document for transporting forest wood varieties as one document accompanying dangerous substances, for example, poisons. These penalties are not proportionate, they have nothing to do with logic. They have nothing to do with anything, ma'am. You can also tell that to a minister who is no longer here. We propose that this matter be discussed. This is all we want to do is get to some level of penalties that apply to the same legal persons with the same status, once transport the refrigeration, and here the lower penalty is five times higher than for those who carry dangerous substances. So it's a super dangerous thing, what's being transported from the forest to the processing plant. This is the most dangerous thing in this country. I can see that it will be difficult to get logical answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u44	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished government team, welcome! First of all, I would just say that Members have the right to propose extraordinary sessions, whether someone likes it or not. That is why we are at work, but also Mr Minister said that we are not talking enough about agriculture. So it is good that we are talking more, and above all I think we are not hearing enough about what we are proposing to each other. Of course, the opposition Members can also propose a number of amendments. We know that, unfortunately, we have not heard enough, and it is therefore right to hold a debate, because the government has the opportunity to propose changes if it has a majority, and these changes can then also be accepted. Certainly the penalties must be proportionate to the infringements, but especially in Nova Slovenija we advocate that penalties are for fraud, not that we punish those who do well, but that they may forget or not be aware enough to manage documents, which is, of course, good, desirable and correct, but that farmers usually have a lot of work to do, so I believe that something like this can happen. For this reason, I believe that penalties must be proportionate, educational and, in particular, more harmonised. If we see such a difference between the penalty for transporting dangerous substances or for one carrier, then this is certainly not proportionate. Above all, I want to talk more often, even in Parliament, about the need for our laws to be more transparent, clear, efficient and capable of being understood by users, not only by lawyers, whom we know to have different opinions about the same law. But I also want to talk more about an enabling policy, less about penalties. When we visit the terrain, we often find that there is a feeling of discouragement, and I am very pleased to see if I meet a young farmer on a farm who is willing to work, to take over a farm that is run, but at the same time I hear: here you have not adopted good legislation, there you have punished us, there we have problems, there is too much bureaucracy. Above all, we should discuss how to tackle these things, how to create an enabling environment, so that there can also be new jobs on farms so that more people can live with it. We have many untapped opportunities in tourism. If we sold more home-grown food, how many new jobs could we provide and so on. In short, I would like to talk more about this in the future, and if today's debate will also help the government team, the ministry's ministerial team or team to think about what Members have pointed out, what they can do to improve, change, I will be pleased, and then the debate will make sense. Above all, I also have concerns about this large range of penalties, as this also allows certain manipulations. I would very much like all inspectors to be just, to stick to the law, to be human, but we know that people in different situations can react differently, we can also be different in sentencing, and there are differences between inspectors and inspectors. Such a large range of penalties makes it possible even more arbitrary not to say that we can also destroy someone if we happen to be his opponents or his enemies or anything. However, I think that effective, transparent, clear legislation, particularly moderate and low taxes, those that also prevent concealment, fraud, so that in the future we should build on this, on a more positive attitude towards agriculture and also on the need to be moderate and then pay them more easily and not have the necessary sanctions and penalties.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Happy Meh, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Jože Velikinja, please prepare for him. Here you go, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! Given that conclusions will not be adopted today, I will also have a slightly more general discussion. I could almost agree with most of what Mrs Ludmila Novak said earlier. I, too, believe that there is actually a need to talk more about agricultural issues and on agriculture in general. Perhaps with this beautiful mistake, I personally expect a lot more substantive and professional discussions and perhaps a little less partial ones that come from such or other interests. However, I believe that discussions in favour of agricultural support are necessary and necessary. Above all, I believe that the laws adopted in agriculture are more or less well-directed from a narrow point of view, but in general, so in some complexities, there are many aspects of overall systemicity. Perhaps this is also the result of this, that is, this content that we would like to discuss in more detail today. In short, I think that the solution to systemic orientation in legislation relating to agriculture in the broadest sense of the word is still quite considerable to do. In fact, if we look at this problem from a premural or pomural point of view, we find that, unfortunately, the area currently survives almost 25% of unemployment, at least in certain areas, but at the same time in the same area or in the same village, the agricultural activity of the population involved in agriculture is still falling dramatically. So this means that our laws are not systematically so motivated that this would actually be a step forward from this point of view, in the right direction. If I go for a moment to ask too many questions, opinions in the local environment are quite shared, but there is no doubt that most of the comments made today are only on the spot. So, some penalties are quite high, disproportionate, and I think that with some systemic approach here we could undoubtedly do more and also step forward. In particular, where certain provisions are frozen, there is likely to be some possibility that the matter will change for the better. I am also aware of the situation that the European Union and European agricultural policy in many ways determine the specific options that apply in Slovenia. However, this is precisely why we should pay much more attention and weight to this issue. In doing so, I agree with those who claim or claim that not all possibilities have been exploited here. So, in areas such as Prekmurje, there are many comments that certain criteria are being levelled from areas not so agriculturally oriented, and this is probably one systemic issue that we should undoubtedly discuss a little more. So there are a lot of questions and I personally think that, in such or other circumstances, there is a lot to be debated about agricultural issues, because agriculture is undoubtedly an area that can be added value on the one hand, with regard to general social development, and on the other hand, it is the fruit that, in one way or another, comes from agriculture, our basic option of survival and survival, whether we are left-wing, right-wing or any other generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister on his way out, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is still necessary. In fact, as obvious as it is on the basis of a few agricultural laws by the current government or government in resignation now, as it is obvious that this government is strongly directed against agriculture, against rural areas, against those who, day by day, day by day, on Sunday and on the worker, create some added value – it is more than obvious. This is a tendency and a reincarnation of politics that we thought was long past. The farmer was a source of exhaustion almost to the end of the previous system. Although it has changed a little over the last period, we are now experiencing reincarnation of this. What has been shown here is that the Ministry has found a source of budgeting right in farmers and that draconian penalties are being imposed here, which will exhaust the farmer, are, of course, in themselves. Look, farmers today are burdened with many things, and above all, they are extremely disturbed by this bureaucratic system, they buy some permits, powers, inspectors behind their necks. It looks just as much under this left-hand authority as if farmers are criminals, like they're just taking care of where they're going to steal some money from the country and sink it into personal luxury. That's not true! That's not true! I know a lot of farmers because I come from a farm, I live in a village, but it's so rare for farmers who just have a little added value to blend into personal luxury, they're very rare! They spend too much money. They don't care enough about themselves. The result is that they hang before it is necessary. But smart policy would encourage a farmer in production by making an appropriate profit and reinvesting immediately. Because farmers immediately give back to the country, they immediately return, and thereby increase the self-sustainment of the country, but no, this is not the objective of this policy, which is so transparently visible. Minister Židan probably had a goal, which he partially achieved, to become popular at the Slovenian level by sucking up rural areas, spilling this money, destroying agriculture. This has happened to him because it is either the population or the electorate — the city’s population is much more — it is much more. But this is a dangerous policy, ladies and gentlemen, which Minister of the Jews should not have allowed himself. And I expected that, for today's debate, at least one of the parties within the coalition would be put on the farmer's side. No, no, no. There's not one customer standing on the farmer's side. This says much that these parties are centrally guided to accept the command of the successors of the only former SD parties without objection.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u49	I suggest you focus on the point, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u50	That's the problem, yeah. This is the central part of this problem that we are discussing. So, here you are unifying all the customers. Neither are the ministers' recommendations prepared to support the Members of these parties. One would think, for example, that one demo, because old people in the countryside, too, would have a heart for the countryside and for the farmer. No, it's not: the command is different. The command is different and must be met. I have to argue here with my colleague, Alexandra Osterman, who used to talk about how things are in Kočevska. It's all wrong now. I believe it has, but in Kočevska it has so far, and I think even now, it has had absolute authority in the congregation left. Our president was a longtime mayor. And I understood that as a criticism of the mayors that they had done nothing for their congregation. Of course, as she said, they have an extraordinary wealth in the forest. And that is what I, Mr Webro and I, have already done in previous mandates, have done in the same way as we have done in the past. Yes, then why are they not compared after development with the Austrian municipalities where the forest is the main raw material? Why did everything go to waste in this Yugoslavia? And it's not what she said, how pink it was. The most villages in Kočevska were demolished! And that she was saying that she was black, and that she was condemning farmers to cut in black — that was an insult to farmers. I know farmers don't almost cut one tree black and sell it. In Kočevska, where the previous regime created forest economies, roughed forests, forest economies, were feudal masters in relation to the farmer, feudal ones, forest economies were directly higher than Udba, companies abroad, even Udbovska and so on. But here there was a lot wrong, and Kočevska could be an exhibition of this country after how much wood there is and what a beautiful forest there is. Like an exhibition of Bavarian or Austrian villages where wood dominates, it is best arranged. Yeah, where did the added value go? And now this one from the forest holdings has gone to concessions, 20-year-olds. Mr Weber fought extremely for the remainder of that time, and others we proposed shorter concessions. And these concessioneers are obviously exploiters of the people. We know that they did not pay any minimum concessions, the money was flowing somewhere, and now they are also interested in political intermediaries for exceptional draconian penalties for farmers. Or the Law on Wine, the Law on Forests, the Law on Nature Protection, and so on. I call on Minister Jew to change course, only now will he defend himself that he's no longer in the chair, that he can't do anything because he's resigning. Let us say to Slovenia that this is part of the system policy that farmers receive under this rule, that this policy of left-wings is aware that the farmer will, in fact, take his land to the last drop of blood. And now they've chosen the same policy. As soon as he's out of breath, we're gonna give up, and he's gonna come back to life again, and then we're gonna be able to tighten up again. Many things have already been negative with such a policy. Many villages have died. Many young people do not see an absolute perspective. I keep thinking that it's still in our society, that he's a farmer like a swear word, like someone who's just unapproachable to society and so on. And it's been accelerating again lately under this authority. And yet the history of Slovenia and Slovenia teaches us that in this category of the population has been preserved Slovenia, Slovenian language and so on, and that they were on the goalbook of Slovenia. Gregorčič wrote about the farm house: "From here thinkers, prophets, all from there, from the farm house." It used to be that way. But if you don't respect this history anymore, I think you've written down the nation and the country. I'm calling the parties in the coalition to stand back! What do they support? What policy towards the countryside and the farmer? Are they aware of the serious consequences? Will they continue to be under the command of one and the same authority, which has virtually no longer been in hand, now under such a different form. I admit that, in the time of the independent state, they have developed extremely well, in what way the policy of others who are in the government needs to be controlled, in what way they need to be held on a leash, whose customers need to be set up to be deceived again. And it's all happening now. I see all this collective support from the entire government. No one in the coalition has identified themselves against this, for this unbearable exploitation of agricultural life. Some even laugh, some even laugh, if you talk, dogs bark, the column goes on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Indeed, one must smile when Mr Jerovšek speaks of the fact that the parties in the coalition are centrally led, and he must have in mind the SDS, which is certainly centrally guided and guided by counseling and working as a single man. I find this really inappropriate for this moment. We are talking about the penalties, about what the SDS has proposed for us to speak today. And I'm very much in agreement with all those of you who have talked about suggesting that we talk about this. Therefore, I would be very happy if a very detailed analysis had been made in the material produced by the SDS, which would explain the reasons for what happened, what they were proposing, and this analysis is not. It is simply a pamphlet, a written political position with which SDS tries to re-make a mess in this area. But I'll also try to say something. It is, of course, that today, Mr Jože Tanko, has always spoken about the arguments, but in 2013, all the penalties discussed for the 12 thousand euro, the Wine Act, for the Forest Act, were not imposed. This is why we are talking here about banks, about holes, about transporting dangerous substances on the road – of course two completely different laws, about two different areas, and if the SDS wanted a real debate, then what the Legislative and Legal Service wrote would be proposed by amendments, and there would be no desire to change the conclusions proposed by the SDS. It was for the purpose, of course. But this was the real purpose, which is before the elections, even this time we speak in a way that does not belong here in the National Assembly. The debate on agriculture would refer to the Committee on Agriculture, where all those who can participate in agriculture, all the chambers, all the associations can prepare all the necessary material, and there we could talk about the content if we think that we should do something about agriculture. I'm also talking about punishment. However, this is the way in which the SDS behaves, and I agree with all those who have also said this, that it is always encouraging the debate without the necessary analysis, without arguments, a debate that does not belong in this way in the National Assembly. However, it will be interesting to read these discussions, which you have also discussed today by members of the SDS, and you may remember them in a year or two, what you will do then. In fact, the problem is that we have everything written down here and that in a year or so it will all come together. If the penalties really affect production, as has been said here today, how much less production is due to the fact that the penalties are as draconian as you say? How much smaller is it? What's the analysis? What happened to all this? And one more question comes to me today when we like to talk like that. Has any change been made this year because of these penalties? Is the situation of farmers or farmers worse this year? Has the government of Alenka Bratusek changed this year? Is agriculture so easy, so shy that they say it can change in one year? Has this changed in the year of the government of Janez Janša? Has this changed in previous mandates? Ladies and gentlemen, it can't change that fast. It can't change that fast. Long-term policy must be in this area, where we will ensure food production, where we will provide jobs, nature conservation and consumer protection. And it's about protecting the consumer. It's about food production. It's about healthy food. However, we are doing harm here, in this policy, where we speak inadvertently, where we are profaning the existing government, where we are talking about that the government has done nothing, and that is a shame, a waste to politics, of course, here, in this national assembly. The penalties are intended, much has been said, to reduce the grey economy, to protect consumers. But I was very disappointed by those who say they're becoming obviously an honest farmer enemy number one in this country. Of course, I too come from an area that is very agriculturally strong. So, even many of my relatives, when I wrote like this, 10 of my relatives are masters or housewives on big farms, and none of them think they're enemy, not number one and not number two. He doesn't even think he's an enemy like a farmer or a farmer in this country. Of course, all my relatives, most of my relatives, say that the position of the farmer today is such that they can live on it. They can live, they can live where my old parents, my uncles and everyone else lived extremely hard. Today these farmers live, live, create and say that the conditions are created so that they can, of course, work in this area. Look, gentlemen and gentlemen, the Committee's conclusions have not been adopted. And let me reiterate that the SDS did not propose amendments or change of conclusions, and you ladies knew that these conclusions were not as recommended by the Legislative and Legal Service, and you have not changed that, which convinces me that the purpose was not actually conclusions. The purpose was to discuss here in the National Assembly. We could organise this debate on the Committee on Agriculture, which is responsible for where we could speak very eloquently about what we have to do in the field of agriculture. And I think agriculture deserves a debate on this committee. And if we thought that the penalties were too high, that laws should be harmonised between us, as proposed by Mr Jože Tanko, we would of course suggest that the Committee on Legislation – what is it called? – for internal policy, for anything, the committee that would then harmonise individual laws did not propose this. So it was not intended to harmonise the laws between us. It was not intended to balance the level of the penalty with each other. Of course, it was the intention to have this debate here today, to speak again before the Slovenian people about the fact that there are holes, that for road transport, if you do not have a driver's license, you pay 40 euros, you pay so much and so much more, but anyone who tells a police officer that they have a traffic permit under that and that name can check it out. I'm sure they're modernized now, and they know whether you have a license or not. But I'm sure the carrier can't verify it and can't verify it. So there were a lot of arguments about what we were talking about here today because of the arguments, even over what we were going to talk about, and that certainly doesn't seem right to me. In fact, it would be best to reduce the debate really on the penalties that have been imposed, on what needs to be corrected, and on the commitment of all those who think it is wrong to correct it immediately in the next term, such as the property tax. This was also discussed, along with other taxes that you will immediately abolish and immediately make them better. The Slovenian nation deserves the truth, the truth, that we will have to settle for ourselves everything that happened in the past. And now that we're talking about how much punishment someone who's been embezzling, stealing or withholding taxes, and how much they should pay a farmer, it's two completely different roles. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate such as many of the debates organised by the SDS here in the National Assembly and also by the Commissions. Legally, you're right, you're right, but it's not good for the general spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Some responses to this debate may be needed. First, as regards the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Compliance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is not mandatory. We can take it into account, we can't. We have assessed, as proposers, that our proposal for a decision is appropriate in all those points that we have written. If you had taken into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in the Real Estate Tax Act, it would not have happened what it was. You have been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service, you have been warned by all opposition parliamentary groups and Members. I don't know how long the session's been going on, but you haven't changed your mind and experienced what you've been through. As far as what you've come to realize is that we should do a comparison or an analysis or an expert basis for this discussion. One month ago, I asked the Minister an oral question. The Minister replied to me like this, only the part that is important will quote: "First, I would like to say that I checked with the Ministry, and the Ministry does not allow the production of professional starting points for any law, at least to the extent that I have been able to verify, because we are saving." So, you do not require professional starting points from the applicant, says Minister Jewan, but you ask us Members, who are asking for some point which we think is inappropriate, to discuss in the National Assembly. See what else the minister said in this reply: "The amount of fines is created in such a way that the professional services of the Ministry check the situation in other similar laws, check the situation of what is happening on the ground, and check – as far as our data is available, we are mostly – what are the fines in other countries that we like to compare with." I asked myself earlier whether someone could justify the difference, for example, in the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and the Law on Forests, which also relates to the transport of goods, or in the Law on Road Traffic Safety, because there are also provisions governing a similar topic – the transport of goods and the fulfilment of all the prescribed regulations. In all three cases, I have quoted what penalties are imposed for the same rank of legal person, the same status. And in the transport of dangerous goods, there is a fine of thousands of euros, and in the case of someone who transports children and has to do things if there is no document, 40 euros, in the case of transport, if someone does not have a carrier, between 5,000 and 50,000 euros. So, I wanted an argument as to why there were such differences. And I have not received a reasoned argument from the Ministry why the transport of refrigeration without a carrier is at least 5 times more expensive, 5 times more punished than the transport of dangerous goods without an appropriate document, or that it is, for example, incorrectly packaged or otherwise. What is the reason for this distinction? There's no answer. I think it would be right because it is not in all cases about consumer protection, including agriculture or nature conservation. The provision of penalties does not concern consumer protection in all cases, in some cases. Let's say that's one part, and the other part is purely technical. The carrier is not consumer protection, I'm sorry. This is a document accompanying some transport of goods. And if you tell us to ask the applicants to discuss this, it would be much smarter, Mr Meh, to turn to the minister and ask him why he proposes fines of between 5,000 and 50,000 euros for carriers, if the penalties are comparable for the much more dangerous goods of thousands of euros, such as poisons, explosives, oil derivatives and so on. There is a thousand Euros and at least 5,000 Euros for the same legal person for the transport of refrigeration without a carrier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Mr. Lucky Meh? You have a word or a replica. Then it's Minister Mag's turn. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u56	Mr Tanko, instead of writing for reasons for calling an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly the truth, you wrote: "Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mags. During his term of office, Dejan Židan deals mainly with the irrational regulation of fines for farmers in which the economic crisis in Slovenia is clearly being resolved." And then in the material below you say: "We think that the government of Alenka Bratušek is working against the rural and Slovenian farmers. The punishment in agriculture is higher..." and so on. "Obviously Minister Židan sees only a source of taxation in the agricultural field and a source of budget charging, while he does nothing in the area of improving agricultural use." You don't have any argument for that! 12 000 euros have been collected under the Wine Act this year and 20 000 in the previous year, and you are talking about draconian penalties, talking about agriculture being completely unsuspecting and proposing conclusions that have nothing to do with what you are saying and what you are proposing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, allow me to say what I said to the honourable Member of the Tank when I answered him. In fact, the state in this ministry does not have the money to pay companies with large funds. As far as I know, you've been objecting to it all along. So I don't know why you're asking us otherwise now. What I'm trying to say is you've been overhearing. With your sentences you exploded in 2007, your government, your minister, your director of the Directorate. With extremely low numbers, you went up for a fine of 50,000 euros. But it is true that I say something that you do not want to say – that the limit starts at 2,000 and that half of it is thousands. However, the penalties are so low, the money collected because the inspectors are working in their own right and also in accordance with the principles that they must respect as inspectors, and that is to use warnings where possible, to apply the lowest penalties in most cases. But these high penalties are for those who are violating, violating, violating, violating and violating. I really don't want to feel like this national assembly is breaking, violating, violating, wanting to essentially cover its back. However, I would like to stress once again. As much fines as you imposed on a Slovenian farmer in 2007 – that is, in a wide range of areas you started with more than 800 euros in fines. When we talk about carriers that are your document, we got it from your government within the time limit, because you were late for the law that should have been passed in March of last year, and the punishment for a farmer is EUR 300 for a small farmer. And in practice, we all know that this means, in practice, 150 euros, and as far as I know, this punishment has not yet been carried out. And that's why this debate is basically me – even though I'm happy with every debate that's about agriculture. I would understand if this case hadn't been in 2007 when you and your government started fines of up to 50,000 euros, and you did something about it, and that is that you have paved a path that is obviously being used in this country further. But I don't understand why you deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, part or most of what you have just opened has already been clarified and there has been no response from the government representatives. The Offences Act isn't new. It could be from 2007. However, in 2010 the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which was made on the same grounds, was adopted at the same starting points as the Law on Forests. Three years after the law, under the so-called roof law on offences, this law was passed. The minimum penalty, if you do not have a carrier, is EUR 5,000 for a legal person in the same status as in the case of the transport of dangerous goods; in this case it is a fine of EUR 1000, and is the only penalty of EUR thousand, is not from-do, is not cumulated. We're talking about a misdemeanor or a fine, whatever you want, with the same starting point, it's the Offences Act. And there is no reason, Mr. Minister, for transporting dangerous goods in bulk, even though it should be packed, punishes with a thousand euros and transport without a carrier with 5,000 euros for, say, a single entrepreneur of an individual or individual who carries out the activity alone – the same diction. You've got 5,000 euros. And I asked earlier, by what definition is transporting forest ranges five times more dangerous than transporting dangerous goods. I'll read to you what is dangerous goods, and I can also read from this law. But what is the reason why you have so characterized all the opposition in spite of their opposition that it is too high a punishment? What kind of case is that? These findings regarding the previous government, however, are inappropriate. The former government has not proposed any of what you are implying. That's what you suggested. The proposer is the one who has to take responsibility. Don't apologize to someone who's gone. I'm not making excuses to Dr. Sturm for drafting the Offences Act that you're making excuses for. He's got some boundaries there, he wrote some things, but it's not clear to me that transporting dangerous goods is five times cheaper in a similar offence than transporting forest ranges if you don't have a carrier. That's not going in my head. And none of your associates could explain it. Why transporting forest ranges without a carrier is 5 times more expensive than transporting dangerous goods, including poisons, explosives, petroleum derivatives and similar things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u62	Dear Member, I hope that the remaining claims you are making are more accurate than what you have just said, because the law speaks of 2 thousand 500 and not 5,000. So I suggest you have the right version of the law in your hand. Let me read you the following. In 2007 – I am not talking about the Law on Offences, I am talking about your Law on Forests, the right government led by Mr Janez Janša, the minister was yours and the director of the Directorate was yours. You, for article 78 or article 79, which speaks, say, of where animals can feed, where not, with a thousand 252 you have imposed penalties on legal persons from EUR 2 000 to EUR 50 000. I don't remember if there was anything so high in agriculture anywhere until then in Slovenia. I don't know why then our farmers bothered you so much that you raised the fine, which was before 125 euros, to a higher level than it is now, that's between 800 and 1,000 euros. Can you give me a nice answer, please? It's true. I looked at the tape of that session. And it's true that I can only say what I always say: when you're in power, you're lucky because you have the left opposition, which is kind. It does not protest, it does not work in politics on professional laws, and no Member or Member at that time has questioned your level of penalties that you have proposed. And they're a lot higher than the ones you're talking about today. So, your law, your government, this isn't the Offences Act, this is the Forest Act. And these penalties are substantially different than they were before 2007. And I don't know what happened in 2007 then that you saw such a danger in Slovenian farmers and forest owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'll be more specific. Read article 77.c of the Law on Forests and read article 54 of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. Read both and explain the difference. Why is there such a difference? Why is transporting a forest range without a carrier, which is a stateless document, not needed now, being punished five times as badly as transporting dangerous goods? Just explain it to me. What you're referring to the previous government, if it bothers you, could be repaired at this time. You've been a minister in the previous Pahor government, you're now, you're okay with it. But when we discussed the Law on Wine and the Law on Forests, we drew attention to the problem of excessive penalties. In this work, Mr Minister, it is the continuity of the approach to the regime you are proposing. We do not change our position and we still feel that, no matter what you do to the carrier, the vehicle is overvalued as far as the penalties are concerned. If you look at any other law that regulates, say, road traffic rules, you will find that only €40 is fined there. That's what I said before, and you weren't there. If you do not have a driver's license, a driver's license if you do not have a cargo document, a driver's license at the time of the ban or for the carriage of children, the penalty is €40. Tell me where the log is worth more than one child driving, let's say, without permission. A thousand or 1250 times the cost of transportation at the upper limit than the transport of children, which is only EUR 40, and this is the only penalty written and half is possible. Somebody tell me what the point of these fines have been in your area lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u66	I am very glad that the debate has become dynamic. Mr. Tanko, at least we won't fall asleep. Then maybe we'll go on a Nordic walk together, which I hear is something you like to mention in connection with me. Look, I want to tell you again. I didn't say at any point that the 2007 law was bad. This is the law of the right coalition, which is also supported by the Social Democrats. However, this is the law in which you have laid down regulations concerning penalties. Do you know what kind of punishment you've imposed, for example, if a farmer accidentally breeds livestock in his own forest, he doesn't have an application for it? Do you have any idea what kind of punishment you've imposed if the ornamental tree from its forest leads without a label? Please read it. But we have never disputed it, and the punishments are terrible. My only request is that when we assess the penalties of one or the other or the eighth coalition, please let us have similar criteria. It's the only request. However, as to why the penalties are really high, as far as carriers are concerned, it is because, I believe you know, the European Union adopted the first legal act, in 2012, for some very legitimate reasons. She simply said: we will no longer tolerate the theft of the forest and the black work in the forest. And at that time, you probably read both European documents, giving some kind of guidance on how to do this. And this instruction is as follows. Do not only take into account proportionality, take into account proportionality, efficiency and dissuasiveness, even because unfortunately the supervisory authorities in Slovenia have as much as we have. The pressure on the public sector, you see, does not give up, is growing, and it is unrealistic to expect more. And that's why the punishment has to be so dissuasive. There's something else I'd like to say here. It is true that the Law on Forests has also changed recently and essentially made a delivery document from the carrier, even because we had time this time, we were no longer under pressure from the European Union to be late because we were late last March because you did not do what is necessary in time. And then we came up with a document that owners and industry can easily use as a normal supplier and benefit them in the business process. And interestingly enough, I understand that for a period of years this supplier or carrier, as the third term is still used, has also been frozen because some things have an advantage in times of crisis. However, it is interesting when I go to the field, and the forest owners are telling us now what a shame we have done this, because now it is almost impossible to control the woods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The Minister, once again, has been in force for years. The Act on the Transport of Dangerous Goods and the Law on Road Traffic Rules have been amended several times, following a bill on board or later. The Road Traffic Rules Act provides that the driver must have documents of carriage of goods. The carrier is likely to be a document on the carriage of goods. And the penalty, if it does not, is EUR 40 under this law. According to your law, the Forest Act, however, the same offence has been punishable by a sentence nearly a thousand times greater than that prescribed penalty under this law. But this is the only punishment written in this part, and it is limited, it is 40 euros, and yours is from-to, it finally has a limit of 50,000 euros. And there's the same law on offences, the same basis, nothing has changed in between. Now I ask what is the reason why, under the Road Traffic Rules Act, if you do not have a document on the transport of goods, the penalty is €40, but if you do not have a forest transport document under the Law on the Transport of Goods, this is the so-called carrier, and the penalty is up to €50,000, for the same legal status of the carrier.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u70	Maybe one more time. I'm sorry if I can't explain clearly enough. There is a difference, and this difference is that the document which is intended for forestry is designed to actually prevent theft, and in fact the penalties are also so high. What we may have forgotten to say is that the European legal order is also moving us to seize what we have received from this transport. Otherwise, Mr Tanko, I ask you something else, if you will allow, although this is probably an unusual question from this point of view. I'm asking, but maybe you'll answer anyway. Do you remember what punishments you agreed on in the coalition at the time?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u71	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u72	Dear Minister, we expect answers from you. We have requested a meeting, we have given content, proposals for conclusions, and we expect answers from government representatives. We haven't changed the role now, you can do it at your ministry. Secondly, the Road Traffic Rules Act also regulates certain matters in order to ensure that transport documents are present, so as to avoid places. In fact, thefts and thefts also occurred in the transport of petroleum derivatives. You probably know the cases where they've been selling oil derivatives, but it's the same punishment, and dangerous goods are still involved, and only a thousand euros are fined. And you're talking about places in the woods. We can also talk about places in this case, and this has happened, the cases are known, even companies can check which ones have done it, and the punishment is just like that and not the one you've prescribed for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u73	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u74	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. But now perhaps I apologize for asking you things you can't answer. But I'll say something different. But this time we won't guess. Now let us imagine the forest and how many supervisors we have at our disposal in the forest, and now let us imagine traffic and how many supervisors work in road traffic. This means, in practice, that there is a significantly greater possibility of being controlled, a significantly greater possibility of being controlled, and it is also likely that the level of penalties has adjusted. As far as the forest is concerned. I even noticed in your file that you're saying that for a million cubic feet of black slicing, it's in your file. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not according to our data, where we used the data, we quoted the source. One source is the Court of Auditors' report. The Ministry doesn't have its own people to measure this because we don't know how to measure it, we have the source of the Court of Auditors' report. And as a second source, we have the report of the Institute for Forests, which has been doing so-called'species rehearsals', and in fact big numbers have come in. And I must say, I understood why the meaning of the European acquis is such that in fact the penalties are such that they are actually dissuasive. The penalties must be such that those who, for example, cheat, do not count on the following: O.K., because they will catch me once and for thirty times, it pays me to sin. It's a similar system, like, before I showed you strawberries and some other fruit, because in low penalties on the market – what? People buy some fruit abroad for 5 euros, sell it, as if it were Slovenian, for 8 euros and essentially count. They're just counting. If the penalty is EUR 40, they charge the penalty within half a day and find that it is paid because they know that we do not have enough inspectors to control a particular market twice a day. It just doesn't work. And that's why criminal policy has changed, not to harm those we protect. We protect farms, protect forest owners. Because, you know, these maggots are doing a lot more damage to agriculture than we can imagine here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u76	Look, Mr. Minister, as far as the Institute for Forests and this service you have in the woods is concerned, it's arranged, these people are large and they work hard after my performance, at least in the area where I come from and it's a very forested area, it's not something like that. Nothing happens in the woods by accident, but overnight, there's not much of it. And this fear that 50,000 euros should be punished is unnecessary is pointless. There is little black crop in the forest owners because they respect the forest and live from it, they manage it. But the problem of this intimidation is actually very serious. It is not clear to me how it is possible that the transport of refrigeration without a carrier is so highly valued as compared to the transport of some kind of explosive that can cause enormous, such as human casualties. Or poisons, like groundwaters and so on, if it's derivatives. There's only a thousand euros there. But it is the same legal order, the same legal basis, as far as sentencing is concerned. Also one parking under your nature conservation law outside the area is 5,000 to 10,000 euros, and it's just parking without anything happening. Look at the provisions. What is the point of these penalties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u78	Even so, we may only know what we are talking about. The request for today's call was due to the thesis that the left government led by Alenka Bratušek, and I am fortunate to be able to work with her as the competent Minister of Agriculture, I do not know what to say, in departure, in liquid state, in gas, but still the minister – was accused of harming the farmer with high penalties, particularly the small farmer. At least that's how it was publicly produced when you talked to the press, so you wrote it down in your materials, but you're always talking about the number 50 thousand. This number has no connection to a small farm. In this law we are talking about is the basis for the fines of 300 euros, half of which is 150 euros. This is 150 euros, and most inspectors, when they find out that there is an irregularity, only give a reminder. Why scare people with 50,000 euros that have no basis in this marriage? It is true, however, that the system of punishment is different for economic societies, but in your work, which is the basis for today’s reference, you refer, if I have understood correctly, to the protection of a small farmer. The numbers are written in a completely different way. I'd suggest we stick to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u80	Thank you very much. But the little winegrower is a small farmer. It has its own GErk, it has a small plot, and look how much for such a punishment – €6,000,500 if it does not report the must, it can.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u81	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u82	I actually want everyone to read the material as well as we who are standing here in front of us, and the left coalition sitting here, because then we would find that in the Wine Act we are talking about two levels of fines for small farmers. We are talking about 350 euros for these minor offences, and I will not count half of them, because I think we all know, but we are talking about, if we remember correctly, 650 euros in fines. Where do you speak of a thousand euros, Your Honor? It's really a range, we figured that out earlier, it's a range, and it's also evidence that the range has a dissuasive effect. And let me say the numbers again. At the time of your government's term of office, after the Wine Act, you have gleaned about 21,000 euros. At the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, the fine was significantly lower, which is 12,000 euros, and it is a shame to scare people at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u84	Look, Mr. Secretary. You have a range of penalties, and a small winegrower who will not report the grow of must may be punished with 6 thousand 500 euros. There's no record in the law that [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, it doesn't say what you're saying anywhere in this marriage. Secondly, we are not talking about penalties imposed, we are talking about penalties prescribed. Here, too, terminology must be properly taken into account. We are talking about a fine of thousands of euros for offences and up to 50,000 euros for transport of timber. But I'm talking about the same rank, same legal status. And not fool around here what it is. If you read the provision of your law in one and the other, it is evident. So many letters, as far as statuses are concerned, we are. And as for these small growers who are producing, I don't know what a hundred liters more than they need for their own use, and it's probably 300 euros too high a sentence because 300 euros is the value of the annual production of a small vineyard. If you have 10 acres and you're producing, I don't know, 300 liters of wine up there, then that's 300 euros if we convert it into money. The penalty is just as much. However, if this grower is slightly higher, and perhaps, I don't know, he didn't do it in time the second time, but the penalty is significantly higher, it could be €6,000 500 in the end. But for the first time, it could be €6,000,500. Well, that depends on who's looking into it. I don't know what I'm talking about, because a term punishment doesn't just mean the lowest sentence is pronounced. You can have anyone in this range, any one, because you don't have that much writing in your marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u85	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u86	As far as the amount of penalties imposed are concerned, they are essentially based in the Offences Act, and there is also essentially, one basis is to impose a favourable sentence on the client, the lowest penalty, but it is true that the law allows those who are violating, violating, violating, facilitating evidence that you cannot simply violate the law. That's the first thing. Second thing. I wouldn't want our farmers and farmers spoken of as people who break the law. If you look at the statistics, find that it's simply not, and please don't say that. Because today we're talking about punishments for those who violate. But basically, our people don't break. That's what I'm trying to say, but there's one thing we keep forgetting. This law or amendment of the Law on Wine was initiated by three associations. One of these associations combines wine cellars, one of these associations unites family farms, and as far as I know, the third association brings together small farms. This was their joint proposal. They came to the Ministry and said, "Please, Ministry, protect us, we live from this." And that is what we have done, we have gone to Parliament with the level of punishment such as their coordinated proposal. There are still a few things in Parliament you have reduced, which you have all the right to, and I respect that. And now I don't understand what we're talking about. This proposal is based on those who live on winemaking and winemaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a further debate. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Behind him are Mr Jože the Great, then the Mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr Branko Ficko. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! I, as a rational person, first of all ask myself why today's meeting really is happening. And when I get an answer, it is immediately clear to me that the task and duty of our Members is to draw attention to laws that are non-lifeless, to draw attention to laws that are in part unfair and disproportionate to other areas or in the field itself. That's the way it is with a lot of fines in agriculture. But since I am a practical man, I will not condemn the other party and the previous coalition, as Mr Minister and my colleague Mr Srečko Meh do. I would suggest that you ask 10 or 20 farmers whether they find the penalties in agriculture proportionate or fair. Let them ask, these will be the right answers, these will be the answers from practice. The penalties in agriculture are extremely, disproportionately high, but I will not repeat now about the Law on Forests and the Law on Wine, where the penalties for certain offences are 10 times higher, even 20 times higher, than is actually worth only the goods, whether it is wood or wine alone. I would stress even more the extreme disproportionateity when compared with tax evasion. The penalties in agriculture are extremely disproportionate when compared with bank violators. The penalties in agriculture are extremely disproportionate when compared with large insurance fraud. Let's put these comparisons on the common denominator and we'll get a quick answer as to whether these penalties are appropriate or inappropriate. These penalties in agriculture, in my view, are incomparable and disproportionately high compared to other penalties. I would say that the repression in agriculture is also visible in the other segments. Especially in the current tense, with incentives, public calls should give priority to home-grown food. Instead, we also introduce additional repressive measures, additional inspections. However, I believe that minor violations are taking place, and I cannot possibly understand that, in fact, today, inspectors are chasing dams and checking whether their eggs are branded or not. We're dealing with these little things in agriculture today. I think that it is the task of both government work and legislative work to deal with the main, framework and global decisions in the field of agriculture, but not with such small things. I'd like to draw attention to another segment that seems kind of bad for the future. The extremely high penalties in agriculture are one of the segments, I would say, of the attacks on rural areas. I would say that the rurals were very lucky that the property tax had been abolished, where agricultural land owners would be very, very highly taxed. This seems to me to be a very dangerous policy of left policy options in the Republic of Slovenia, because simple mathematics can be calculated that Slovenia can be politically controlled with three, four largest cities in the Republic of Slovenia. And this is for the future, this is very, very dangerous for the Slovenian countryside. In my opinion, there is a very tactical, very deliberate and dangerous policy behind here, how to control Slovenia from only three, four biggest Slovenian cities. And this is worrying about the future and, of course, about Slovenia, but especially about Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jože Velikinja, followed by Dr Ljubica Jelusic, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mr. Ficko and behind him mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Big Guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors present at the Hall! Yesterday, some MEPs on the Agriculture Committee have been working for several hours on the basis of the proposals for recommendations from the proposer of the meeting regarding the excessive penalties in agriculture, and this will obviously be repeated all day long. Although the applicant refers to the alleged provisions of the three laws already mentioned today, the Law on Forests, the Law on Wine and the Law on Nature Conservation. The statistics and facts provided by the Government show a completely different picture. The Law on Forests and the Law on Wine were adopted with the aim of preventing illegal logging in Slovenian forests, preventing the grey economy and protecting Slovenian farmers who own forests, whether they are part of the timber chain, whether they are engaged in wine-growing or wine-growing. The Nature Conservation Act is still in its wake, and discussions on the content of this law are irrelevant. Personally, I think that living in a country that works by the rules without the penalties imposed for offenders would be nicer and better. Unfortunately, too, we will not have the conditions for such a functioning of the legal order for a long time. Muscle tightening in pre-election times in a way that gives citizens additional mistrust in the country and in a system that acts objectively and preventively is unfair, since penalties are only directed at lawbreakers and in no way endanger farmers serving their bread with fair work, regardless of the size of their farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone, especially to the Minister and the team! I am pleased that you are all the most responsible here today from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, to see that the legislation we are talking about today is not only a matter of one minister personally, but it is also an important professional team and also of the kind that we do not speak of hundreds of senior state officials from the Ministry who have cared that there are certain continuitys in the various mandates of different governments in the implementation or drafting of certain laws. I would say for today's debate that it is legitimate, a legitimate proposal from the SDS for an extraordinary meeting on certain agricultural issues. It is also right that we put this legitimacy, which is based on the fact that it is one of the political forms of action, in the right context. And this context is, in my opinion, a pre-election campaign. A number of things need to be clarified in this regard. First, it must be said that this pre-election campaign works in a way that only those chapters dealing with sanctions or fines are excluded from the three laws mentioned in the material, namely the Law on Wine, the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation. Everything else in these laws is silenced and it is not concluded that fines in agriculture are too high, but the conclusion that Minister Židan sees only the source of taxation and the charge of the budget, while he does nothing in the area of agricultural improvement, we can say, more specifically, that agricultural use promoters, improve agricultural structure, improve farms, introduce modern technologies and so on. In short, it's not a decision to deal with sanctions, but you're actually embroiling with the functioning of the minister of the Jews. In the context of the election campaign, why should I argue with the Minister of the Jews, one of the ministers of the government, Alenka Bratušek, who was doing well? Within one year of its operation, it can list a number of laws that we have adopted with more or less consensus in this national assembly. Since the Law on Agriculture, and not least the Law on Forests, and the Law on Wine, and then the Law on Kobalna Lipica, there have been some of these measures, not to mention a particular type of change, and very quickly, legislation that has contributed to the relatively effective response of the Ministry of Agriculture to the natural disaster caused by the acorn. The Minister has also done a great deal in the area of negotiations, the conclusion of negotiations on the common agricultural policy and the resources that will fall within the future financial perspective of the Slovenian farmer. Of course, all these things must be forgotten and written down and excluded from the context of its operation only from the so-called fines or sanctions that are intended to harm farmers. We are telling the truth all the time that these are fines that are intended to prevent activity in agriculture on a black, black economy and, of course, to prevent different kinds of speculation. Why do some ministers who do well tend to take part in the campaign? Because then their campaign is more visible. If you get angry with some insignificant or poor minister who doesn't have results, then your assault and all your hard work are badly seen in the public eye. The public perceives a conflict between strong opponents. It is said that between that opponent, on the one hand, who is publicly rated as good, which is the case with the Minister of the Jews and the entire Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and the challenger. The challenger is then more recognizable in the public, in the media and his battle, even though it is based on perverse arguments, is still visible because it is a battle against an important opponent. Of course, in this battle against the opponent at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we cannot say much on the basis of the answers in practice. The answers from practice when it comes to fines in the area of the Wine Act are the answers that they have drawn up at the Ministry, where they also speak in the Government's works on how many fines were passed in 2013, in 2012 and until now in 2014. So how much money was actually contributed by farmers to the budget under the wine law because of the fines imposed. It's the only practice we have. When it comes to answers from practice concerning the issue of the Forest and Transport Act, we do not have practice. One year the carrier is frozen and we cannot talk about how it will actually work in the future when it enters into force. It is also important to take into account in this context that the right hand is likely in the Slovenian environment, but also at European level, that it will never be passed on to the agricultural sector by the Minister, who comes from the left province, and not from the Social Democrats at all. It must be said, however, that this form of thinking that agriculture is a priority area where only right-wing ministers can function well is already exceeded at EU level. When Minister Židan started his work, three ministers from social democracy in the agricultural field could be seen in the European environment. There are nine of them today. It is said that the fact that left-wing ministers can also be left-wing ministers is appropriate for the Minister of Agriculture to apply this fact in the European environment. Such attacks, as we are witnessing today, do not actually work, I hope that they will not take place in the Slovenian environment and not in the international environment, but in particular in the European environment. That this is a pre-election campaign, I also argue on the basis of the claims made by some of you today when you promise certain things that follow the victory of the elections. For example, termination of vehicles. A very interesting statement, which, given that it comes from the right, I am really interested in how it goes in the context of recognition that European directives must be respected in Slovenia. How does this claim go in this context, given that the right hand considers itself to be a more exemplary copycat, a learner and a follower of European regulations and directives. The monitoring of wood and the introduction of a document following wood is the result of the European Directive and the introduction of this Directive in the form of a transport undertaking into our legal order. It is important to remember another promise from the past that came from the right, because today we expect that when you come to power, you will also reduce the penalties in the field of agriculture. Once in the past, you did the same campaign to reduce road safety penalties. And then you really did. However, the impact of the reduction in road safety is still visible today in the enormous increase in offenders, offenders and others in road traffic. Including those who today think that even if they drive on the wrong side of the road and kill people, they can expect relief. This feeling, therefore, that this belief that penalties for offences must be low has helped to ensure that people are no longer disciplined in road transport and that your promises, which you are now indirectly trying to make, are likely to reduce sanctions even in the field of agriculture, are those false promises that will give people the feeling that it is possible not only to swindle the country but, above all, to harm those true farmers. You also say in one of the claims that because of the policy implemented by the government of Alenka Bratušek to rural areas and, of course, especially Minister Židan, there is a emptiness of rural areas. I wonder on the basis of what kind of information you come to these conclusions. I would like to invite you, say, to Crassus, in the karst village, and together we would look at from when and how many people, especially young people, remain in the countryside, in family houses that were built during a period when loans were low and could be returned, they also got cheap. In short, we will see that very many young people remain in the countryside, even a very large number of people coming to live among us, to Crassus. And the Krashevs and the Primors are today wondering how to assimilate these furrows. Not about where the young people are going. Of course, the fact that young people and others come to live among us in our village is also a result of the good functioning of the mayors, as well as of European policies and European cohesion and other means. The mayors managed to create such infrastructure to improve people's living standards in the countryside, so that no one today has to leave home. But it is true that if they live in rural areas, they need not be involved in agriculture. That's another question. People do not empty rural areas, but it is true that agriculture and agriculture or land no longer do what is possible in the past. I was happy to hear one statement from a fellow Christian Democrat, that an honest Slovenian farmer seemed to become an enemy of the state. But from this point of view, I would point to the word "honest" of Slovenian farmers when it comes to the debate on sanctions and fines. Because sanctions are not intended for fair farmers, except indirectly, by dissuading them from acting as speculators and fraudsters. Therefore, for the fair Slovenian farmer the sanctions we are talking about today are not problematic, they do not seek them because they are not trying to fool the country in any way or some other regulations that apply in the environment. And just for the end. There were also quite a few criticisms about not doing anything, no incentives for agriculture, no reliefs, etc. I think it would be good to respond to such criticisms, however, by providing information as to how much money from European funds, as well as from domestic resources, has been devoted to rural development in recent years, either under rural development programmes or in the context of direct payments in agriculture. Finally, it is also necessary to look at the figures on the future, the future financial perspective, where EUR 1.11 billion is foreseen or available in the 2014-2020 Slovenian Rural Development Programme for direct payments and EUR 953 million for direct payments. If so many funds are available for the next 6, 7 years, then I would hope to say that we cannot defend the issue that there is no incentive to avoid support for Slovenian agriculture. It is indeed important to ask whether these incentives, including direct payments and grants, have produced results, as our agricultural policy, when it comes to self-sustainment, was expected in Slovenia. Of course, the recommendations prepared for today’s session cannot be supported. Before that, I used the expression that the material for this purpose was quite despicable. I would also point to the fact that, as I said at the outset, he mentions three laws, and today the proposaler has made another law before us, namely the law on the transport of dangerous substances, which, of course, belongs to another sector. And in every way today, he is trying to challenge his colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in such a way as to discuss the comparisons between different ministries, between different laws, and to avoid actually discussing why today's extraordinary meeting was convened. I express my support to my colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for the work done this past year, and I think that, on the basis of this work, it will be possible for anyone to come to this ministry to work well and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u94	Thank you very much. My colleague, Ljubica Jelusič, has become known in recent months for misleading, telling untruths or even stupidity. Given that she was once a minister, of course she does not do it out of her ignorance, but with a certain purpose, which is immoral, repudial and would be at least what is necessary, the debate should be pointed out. She knows very well that the European Directive imposes traceability and knows very well that traceability is ensured. We don't need two documents or more documents to trace, one is enough. And in most cases, without carriers, it's enough. Recently, when it was an ice catch, Mrs. Ljubica Jelusic was so misleading that the Postojnas should thank Petrol for his concern that they were not hungry, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u95	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u96	because the gas service in Postojna was opened at the time. [[…]] He wasn't. He wasn't. Unfortunately, they took care of it, but not for the Postojnians to be hungry, but for the fuel the Austrians OMW. I believe she knew it was like that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u97	Procedural proposal, Mr. Montenegro [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u98	But she was deliberately deceiving. [[…]] I've said it in the beginning and I'll continue to explain it to the end. Something similar to this comparison, where it was said that due to the harmonisation of criminal policy in transport with European legislation, it is comparable to European countries, which Slovenia did in 2012 in order to increase the number of offenders. He didn't. As well as the worse, heavier and easier forms of consequences of traffic accidents. Slovenia is witnessing in the latest resistance the reduction of both traffic fatalities and, above all, the worst consequences [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u99	Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u100	which, of course, speaks of the fact that this trend is not directly related to criminal policy and that one part of this criminal policy has been wrong in the face of minor offences that do not generate these serious violations. [[…]] This, of course, was the result of 2010 and of the then government, which adopted this law, where this bow was strained needlessly. Something similar is now happening in this area of agriculture. In the parliamentary group, we have only pointed out a comparison where there are significantly more serious infringements that are penalised with smaller penalties than for example if someone takes too much wave out of the forest. By the way, did you know that it is also a crime if someone takes too much of a wave at Christmas and stops it by the competent inspector, he also imposes a penalty on him, not just for taking some mushrooms out of the forest, if he has some unmarked eggs on the market. It is a matter of punishing the real offenders, not those who are not problematic in this room. Therefore, the deception that has been expressed by a Member which, according to my assessment, was intentional [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u101	Mr Cernač, I am actually going to warn you that you have gravely violated the rules of procedure and used your procedural proposal for a debate. Therefore, I ask you to follow the rules of procedure in the future as it is written. But we have another procedural proposal. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u102	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Mr Černač referred to Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to the use of the Rules of Procedure, is said to be a procedural matter. And of course you gave him an immediate word, which is right. However, his colleague Chernač had gravely violated Article 69 because he did not talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but he used this procedural proposal because he wanted to disqualify the discussion of his colleague, Dr Ljubice Jelusič. I therefore propose that, on the basis of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, you give a warning to the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u103	I have reminded Mr Chernač twice or three times during his discussion. I'm not going to give a warning, because then I also warned him about this grave abuse of the rules of procedure. I also thank you for re-explanating how the procedural proposal is being applied. However, I would ask everyone who responds to a word outside of this, as you are scheduled to discuss, to try to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to confuse each other with inappropriate words. Mr. Chernač, you have a procedural proposal and please stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u104	My debate was fully in line with and in the spirit of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u105	There was a debate, you've come to a very good conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u106	in the sense of misstatement and misinterpretation of what has been proposed with regard to the convening of this meeting, I have also debated by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. [[…]] And I warned you that the allegations were made by Ljubica Jelušič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u107	Mr. Chernač, please don't take advantage of this again, because I will be really forced to give you a warning. And for the first time, I warn you that I will give you a warning if you do not follow the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u108	Yeah, the interpretation of the facts. See, Madam President, you can also order me to be removed from this hall, given that you have power and authority in your hands. You won't be able to do this much longer. I will say what I mean, and I will say this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. Just like I did. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u109	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u110	Just as I did in the first part – I warned about the wrong statements that do not hold. [[…]] And I said that the fact that the penalties that were in line with the European acquis in 2012 in the field of lighter traffic violations did not make it clear that there had been more of these infringements. Because statistics speak differently. These violations have been reduced and also the consequences of worse traffic accidents, lighter traffic accidents [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u111	Procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach! Secondly, I remind you to stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u112	has been less than in the last 10 years. [[…]] I have said that these things are not directly related and that, as a result, criminal policy must be based on sanctioning high penalties those practices that are actually dangerous and controversial, rather than taking a little more of the moss or more of the mushrooms out of the forest than is prescribed, which is now being done with this penal policy in the field of agriculture. Not to mention those eggs where the annual production of an individual farmer is probably not worth 500 or 1,000 euros, the penalty prescribed for not having these eggs branded and selling is a few hundred euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. Once again, I can see that you have once again gravely violated the rules of procedure. The procedural proposal is a proposal relating to the procedure. And your proposal did not refer to the procedure, but you had a debate, as you yourself have found. No, you will no longer have a procedural proposal because she has announced herself for Mrs Potrate's procedural proposal. And it seems good to me that if we are already here today in this session, that we will also take it to the end and that we are actually discussing it at this meeting, not just making procedural proposals. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bevk said what the 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure was saying that procedural proposals could only apply to the application of the Rules of Procedure. And the abuse that no one has ever talked about before, which Mr. Chernač has done, I would like to point out. He hasn't been to the hall yet, and he hasn't discussed it yet, so he hasn't had a chance to replicate. What he did twice in his debate was a replica or his response to Dr. Ljubica Jelusič's discussion. The proposers of this meeting shall have every opportunity to make themselves known as candidates at any time necessary. If Mr Tank as a proposalr is not to react to Dr Jelusic's discussion, which he disagrees with, this is a problem of SDS. But what Mr. Blackach did, and this he's doing permanently, this wasn't the first time. What comes from somewhere in the universe is not in turn, requires a procedural proposal and denies everything from mushrooms to moss, and some insults in between. What we need to hear, and what is then heard from the SDS, is what colleague Jeraj said that it was necessary to correct the allegations, is a classic case of abuse of the procedural proposal because it is not a replica. The former vice president has always taught us that the replica is not a controversy, that something else needs to be stated. But what they were now talking about would be a controversy with a debate on one of the Members. It is a misunderstanding of the use of the Rules of Procedure, a misunderstanding of the application of the Procedural Proposal, replicas and discussions. I admit to you, Madam Vice-President, that you have warned Mr Chernač and you have achieved nothing. I believe that he will now come forward again because this is his manner, but if we are precise, the proponents of this topic have the opportunity to respond to our debates. They have the time of the parliamentary group and the time of the candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u115	Thank you very much. This was another extensive explanation of the Rules of Procedure. Now we are going on with a real debate. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like to ask you first. Of course, my position will not be exactly the same as that of the government coalition. He won't. It's gonna be a little different. Madam President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u117	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Please don't interrupt me, because I think Parliament is a place of different views. Of course, I respect the Minister of the Jews. Of course, certain things surprise me greatly. I'll be very specific. When we were both in the opposition, well, I'm always in the opposition, somehow on the Roznik tour, we found out that you couldn't give the then government coalition any good evidence, either, that maybe we could just listen to it so that we could make a difference. But look how it's possible for it to repeat itself the same way. I think it's a little different from the current government coalition. The penalties in Slovenia in general are too high. I'll go to another area, that's been said enough. In traffic offences, we have Slovenians three times as much as in Austria and three times the wages. Of course, we are trying to keep the country somehow under control with criminal policy. Nobody's ever done that before. One question was why today's session was held. What for? Good question – if everything is all right. Everything's fine in this country. Is that true? It's all right. We have economic growth of about 3%, record low unemployment, people getting such wages that they can live, young people, not only remain educated in Slovenia, even from other countries moving. This is a country that is, in fact, an example of orderliness, of opportunities for creative and working. That's what we hear from every government coalition. But what they say, no one feels. That's why I think it would be good, Minister of the Jews, but to listen. I think that the well-intentioned and perhaps even slightly with different intentions, the warning that penalties for this area should be reduced, balanced, of course given in a comparable way. Mrs Potrata, I understand with her very well, she advised me not to use the word "stupid nonsense" anymore, and I do not use it anymore because she explained the purpose to me. I respect that. I was told not to advertise my books too much. But look, this isn't my book. This is the book Bojana Grobovska Why Slovenia is not Switzerland. And here is a lot of practical experience of a man who was four times an ambassador in four different countries of the world, last of all in Switzerland. And you know what he wrote, among other things, I've read it twice because it's a good book, and I recommend, "Compromise is the foundation of healthy democracy." He cites the example of Switzerland and Austria, which, among other things, are the most successful or among the most successful European countries, because they know those who are ruling to listen to the opposition's good proposals. I therefore believe that this government coalition would demonstrate its maturity if it listened to and followed and amended certain provisions of the agricultural penal policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I will not be talking about the political points of the left or the right option, how one and the other destroys the farmer or the countryside. But I'm sure if we were all at a glass of wine together now, we'd be talking a little differently, and we wouldn't be accusing each other. And speaking of wine, of course, I'll talk about fines under the wine law. Why has there been a change? Of course, because of the gray market, especially the natural persons, the illegals and the espouses that cause unfair competition in this market and destroy those parts of the wine cellar and wine-growing industries that deal with it, employ people and pay taxes. We have already said that only 55% of the wine sold has been examined, and unfortunately we have only 30% of the excellent and quality wines. The law introduced such mandatory registration or increase in the registration of the crop and the conditions for the filling of wine in the inn. Of course, fines have been imposed on offenders by reducing legal persons and espouses, and this is essential in some groups. It is true, however, that in natural persons who are alleged merchants and sell wine on black, fines have increased, all those who commit offences. Some talk of a small farmer, of a lover’s vineyard, they are not classical farmers or producers, and they have no restrictions on their sale in their own basements. However, for possible surpluses they have the option of other forms of sale such as the sale of grapes to cooperatives or may be merged into so-called cooperatives and sell surplus wines under their brand. I would suggest that those small vine growers, like my colleague Lah would like to mention, could also drink those excess wines with friends, and we could also be invited. I believe we'd like to have a nice conversation there. Of course, if we were stopped on the road by Minister Virant and his associates, of course, the penalties could then be slightly different. Of course, I have no intention of saying now that we must all follow Wilfán's path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u122	Thank you very much. A respected minister with colleagues, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! This debate has shown a number of perspectives of criminal policy in Slovenia. I will focus on penal policy in agriculture, compared to another penal policy, for example in the area of taxes. Of course, that's one thing. And the other thing is, I think we need to define something here. We've got some punishments. We've got some fines. There's no comparison here. The prescribed penalties are given by a star as a country, how it leads and what criminal policy it governs. These prescribed penalties, which are reflected in the Forest Act, which are in other agricultural laws, the Wine Act, show repression. They show that these punishments are high. They are also high according to the material situation in agriculture. This is quite true, and from this point of view, in my view, agricultural policy and in the context of this criminal policy in agriculture are wrong, it is frightening. People should also be afraid of high penalties for relatively small offenses. For relatively small misdemeanors already mentioned by my colleagues. And what happens to such a repressive penal policy? People are afraid. People end up afraid to work. And because they are afraid, because of this there is less work, less intensive work and there is less productivity in agriculture itself and on the other hand people are intimidated. It's not a good policy. Such a declaratory policy, when we talk about penalties, is not good. The second is the performance. But how do inspection bodies perform, and how does the Ministry of Agriculture perform? Of course, he acts by showing the prescribed punishments and people get scared. If the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Minister of Agriculture are to intimidate people into doing anything, then he has actually succeeded in such a criminal policy. And we are against such a penal policy. And we are also in favour of changing such a penal policy because it does not achieve anything. The second is for those who deliberately work, not only offences, but also acts that are criminally persecutable for a certain purpose. There's a Penal Code there. In the Penal Code, you actually have the opportunity to prosecute those who, with a view to obtaining certain funds obtained in an illegal way, are actually being punished in this case. But the fact that it is punished in this way is the reflection of this government that it wants to intimidate and intimidate people in the area of agriculture. And that's not good. This is not good for Slovenia. The second is how penalties are actually implemented. I apologize, but I do not know the provisions of the law which would stipulate that the minimum penalty should always be applied. I think it's a matter of free judgment here, and the inspectors have the option of free judgment. If they did not, the penalties would in fact have been imposed in a different way. When we talk about the comparison and when we talk about what the penalties are in agriculture, we can find that those who do not give the label will not properly label the wine, will not use the geographical indication in the right way or will not mark the vessel, are relatively much more punished than those who, for example, give the Tax Administration incorrect data or not at all give these data or give information that they have paid contributions as an independent entrepreneur. In a different way and much less, the person who commits a tax offence will be punished compared to the one who, as a small producer or as a producer, will not actually report or announce the production of must. From this point of view is such a policy, I think, directed, towards rural agriculture. And this policy, which is so focused, is purposeful. Of course, I think that this is not good and that is why we have convened this meeting today, we have put forward a proposal to convene this meeting, to show, on the one hand, that such a penal policy means destroying rural areas and that, on the other hand, it also means small production in agriculture and means evasion or departure of people from rural areas. And that's not good. And even as Minister of Agriculture, you should know that and eventually step a step closer or step back and find that the penalties are disproportionate. Today, colleague Tanko has already talked about penalties disproportionate to the transport of dangerous substances. Here I find that they are disproportionate compared to tax offences, because the impact of the tax offence is probably much greater, the tax evasion is a tax evasion, as an effect if someone gives the wrong label on the geographical origin of the bottle. The effect is much greater. And here's the disproportionate. I see here that there is no desire or desire for anything to change here. The usual answers are based on what happened in the past, what happened in 2007, what happened in 2003, 2002 and so on. And these responses from the Minister do not give any hope for farmers to actually change anything in the future within this ministry. Now it's gonna be hard because the government has stepped down. But I would also point out when some events from the past are cited, that they are not related to the future, and that after all we can justify a certain matter and justify a certain punishment even if you want, with the penal policy of Mary Teresa or Frank Joseph in connection with Martin Krpan when he was loading salt from Trieste to Vienna. But there will be no progress. And here I do not see by the Ministry of Agriculture any change of opinion and that anything would happen in this area. The disproportionate penalties, not only against other offences, but also against property, by how much people are even able to pay in certain cases, but poor agriculture, are actually an attack on rural areas and, finally, in agriculture is causing some kind of threatening policy. I think that it is necessary to end this by changing the entire criminal policy in order to make the penalties proportionate both to other penalties and to the state of human property. The next thing I'd like to say in the end is that this is some sort of pre-election campaign to start a campaign. The campaign began because Alenka Bratušek resigned because the government of Alenka Bratušek is no longer in office because she is waiting for the election date. And what's wrong with that? After all, we are Members of Parliament all the time, in some way in the campaign. Although not formal, in fact, people will likely remember those who have done good and those who have done less good. And I don't see anything wrong here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u123	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u124	Thank you. Sir, once again, I would like to say what I have said three or eight times today, that if we look at the forest law, the system actually started there in 2007. I'm not saying it's good or bad. But we can't forget that. As we speak now, we are talking about the past, whether it is the past in 2013, 2010 or 2007. Anyway, we're talking about the past. However, I would like, honourable Member, to say something, nevertheless, because we discussed the Law on Offences and how the inspection body should decide whether it depends on his good will, how he ate or got up in the morning on such a foot or another. In fact, the Law on Offences makes it clear that when penalties are in range, the lowest prescribed measure of fine is pronounced. Then there is an exception which the inspector can take into account and then also take into account all the circumstances affecting whether the sanction will be smaller or greater, these are mitigating and aggravating circumstances, namely the level of the perpetrator's liability for the offence, the inclinations from which he committed the offence, the degree of threat and so on and the damage and so on. Then it is also important to take into account the perpetrator’s wealth situation, the level of his salary, his other income, his property and family obligations, and then to continue writing a few words. So an inspection can't work exactly as it feels, it has a marriage. Whether people who exercise control, trust or don't trust is a matter of perception for each of us. And I have to tell you, unlike many in our country, I respect the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u125	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u126	Yes, thank you for your answer, Minister. All I'm saying is, after all, it's a matter of free judgment. I know this provision, but in view of the circumstances in which the person who is to be punished is subject to the circumstances of the property, to the purpose and so on and so on, of course, the Inspector will determine this. That's what I'm talking about. And that actually means that this is the Inspector's free judgment. It may also for the first time, in the light of the circumstances mentioned and it will be able to prove in the proceedings, prescribe the maximum penalty. That's what I'm talking about. Because of this they are in range, and this is true for the whole matter, this is true for all offences. What you read, of course, I know, but nowhere did it guarantee that the lowest penalty will always be imposed and that the first sentence is the lowest. That's what I'm talking about. Because if such a provision were to be, then the lowest penalty would have been prescribed in the laws and then the second higher penalty. That's why I'm saying it. With respect to respect for the state administration, I have no problems, so I don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Minister of the Jews applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u128	I am glad that some things, despite all the opposition, the coalition, we think similarly. I just want to say the following. In order to see how the inspectors decide, it is appropriate to look at the practice, which is why I have also mentioned the figures from previous years, from this year and compared them. Not to irritate the left, the right, or the middle, but to see how the inspectors decide. When we see how they decide, the inspectors actually do what's reasonable. They're basically using this method that they have at their disposal, and that's a warning. And there is something else I would like to say, of course, we trust the Inspector that he will make a rational decision in accordance with the law and for the party as little pain as possible. However, if the inspector does not do so, the client shall have legal protection. And that's a complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Only Bevk is now speaking. Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franz Pukšič, followed him and then Branko Smodiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Minister Mag. Dejan Židan is certainly one of the best, if not the best Minister for Agriculture in Slovenia. He is an expert, a good and popular politician and is therefore also ranked in the highest places of various public opinion polls. It is therefore no coincidence that he became the SDS target, the largest opposition party in the National Assembly, for a good 10 days before the European elections and a few months before the state elections. As a target, however, it was also necessary to select the Minister of Social Democrats, since in the last six months we have been most mentioned and evaluated as the country's leading political party in public opinion polls. So it is by the proposer that the political points be set cheaply and cheaply before the upcoming elections. For the applicant, therefore, there is no cheaper pre-election campaign than a direct TV broadcast on the third parliamentary programme. The scenarios we have met several times in the last year since the Janšev government was in opposition. This hindered the normal work of both the national assembly and the government. The fact is that the National Assembly thus became the prisoner of the largest opposition party, all with the aim of destabilising the political space in that country. So many extraordinary meetings, working bodies and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, mostly barren as produced by the SDS in a good year, have not yet been produced in Slovenia alone. Why was I so unappreciative in my judgment? Because the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is mag. In fact, the Jews debarred directly and effectively all statements by the proposer on high penalties in agriculture and that the Minister of Mag. The Jew and the Prime Minister, Mag. Alenka Bratušek is working against the rural and Slovenian farmers, which of course is not true. The truth is the opposite. In 2007 the government of Janez Janša came to the National Assembly with a law where the penalties in agriculture were significantly higher than the penalties today. The specific numbers have been accurately taken by the Minister of Mag. I'm not going to repeat them, of course. However, they were significantly higher in the 2007 law, in the law proposed by the Janša government. It is also interesting to note from the current minister that there were 17% less fines in the time of the left-wing government than there were right-wing governments. So the facts speak for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I like to look for common points from both sides, and first of all I must say that I agree with the Minister, who says that we should talk more about agriculture here in this Chamber. I'm just adding, and making the best decisions for our Slovenian agriculture. My discussions on agriculture, at least I am trying to do so, are never dependent on the timing of the parliamentary term. Of course, we are talking about an extremely important matter. We are talking about the political sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. And here I often agree with many claims, especially the statement made by Prof. Dr. Jožet Osterac, who says that we must be aware of the political sovereignty that political sovereignty is not without guaranteed food production, which is a key strategic raw material. Today, thank God, we do not yet feel hunger; I hope that we will never be hungry in Slovenia. But it can happen literally overnight. And this is really a matter of political sovereignty. I never agreed with the fact that Mrs Alenka Bratušek, former Prime Minister of the Government, with full powers, said that we had maintained political sovereignty because we had not opened the door to the threesome. Agriculture is not really just an economic sector. As I said before, the English here have an extremely rich language, but in this area it is necessary to recognize the English language that it is a little richer when it comes to farming than "agriculture". It is said that agriculture is a culture of soil cultivation, vegetable food production and animal farming. Everything must be and must take place at an appropriate ethical level, towards which the world is becoming more difficult and supportive. This kind of farming is sonar, it's sustainable. Throughout history, Slovenian man has farmed culturally and thus shaped a cultural landscape that we are proud of and admired by the whole world. And we want it, and we have to keep it. It may sound a little funny, but perhaps someone will join agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment with the Ministry of Culture. It would not be bad because there is a wealth of diversity of Slovenian culture and the foundation of Slovenia in the countryside. And now to a narrower content of today's subject. During the session, I was called by a winegrower from the Lendavian Mountains — I have talked about this many times — that we must do something in this area. The Lendava Mountains were the largest complex of vineyards in the size of 625 hectares. Unfortunately, the Minister and I were unable to agree on a round table in Lendava to discuss the perspectives of Lendava winemaking and winemaking. But we may be able to do that sometime in the future. And this interlocutor helped me to simulate what a fine actually means for a winegrower under the new Wine Act; these penalties are for small producers between €650 and €6000. We can talk about the nominal value of some punishment, but, ladies and gentlemen, the real value of punishment changes over time. At the time of the economic boom, €650 is less than today when we are living in a crisis. Someone can laugh about it, but that's right. And now, with my winegrower friend, we are developing: the average area of the vineyard in the Lendava Mountains is 15, 16 acres, there you can produce, if you are good, about 2 thousand 500 to 3 thousand kilograms of grapes, if this whole crop is good 3 thousand and if you sell it at a price of 35 cents to 40 cents per kilogram of grapes, you get – how much? [[..]] Let's round up to a thousand euros. And then you happen, whether you like it or not, but you don't follow the rules to get the lowest penalty, that's €650, which means that almost or more exactly 65% or two-thirds of the crop or almost all of the crop you have to give for it is the penalty that's been imposed on you. Do we now imagine what EUR 650 means? On paper, it looks like O.K. It's not too high, it's not too low. But this is the whole year of some average Premur winegrower. This is how we have to compare these things, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention how much you actually get for some vineyard with 450 reeds, if you sell it or for how much you can buy it in premier mustards. And I would like to say that we have to be extremely sensitive here, as we are discussing, of course, agriculture. I am not satisfied with what we will probably be discussing on the Committee on Agriculture in two, three hours' time, when there will be talks about Members just getting to know themselves, and I am not satisfied with this, with the direct payment scheme. The proposed proposal to equalise direct payments for fields and karst meadows and high mountain pastures means, ladies and gentlemen, the destruction of agricultural production in Slovenia. Pika. Direct payments are not a gift from the European Union or Slovenia, but a compensatory payment between income and expenditure on agricultural production. Therefore, northeastern Slovenia's farmers require that, due to the largest investments in agricultural production areas, they are adequately supported if we want to maintain Slovenian self-sustainment with domestic food produced and ensure the political sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no Slovenian processing industry without Slovenian food production. Are we aware of that? I also wonder whether the strategic guidelines we adopted in the resolution, which were full of mouths about Slovenian self-sustainment, "let's grow food for tomorrow", we said. Whether such a division of direct payments means coherent rural development, regions where the most agricultural areas lose 30 to 40 %, among which the most affected will be Pomurje. I will not continue here because Madam Vice-President will say that this is not the subject of this meeting, but these are the content that we should be talking about here. Of course, to understand each other, of course, I still have a way of allowing the karst farmers to also get the high mountain farmers, but there can be no change literally overnight. These will apply for the period 2015-2020 without any specific agreement being given to farmers of northeastern Slovenia. This debate today does nothing to agriculture. It is good that we discuss these matters, draw attention to them, and make sure that everyone in his or her field does his or her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has applied to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u134	Allow only one information because we are not likely to be present in this important meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which will take place after this meeting of the National Assembly. When we started negotiating in 2010, that is, in April, we had three major threats. The first threat was to significantly reduce the amount of €140 million because you wanted to go to European equality. We stopped it. We were in the right group of countries, so the amount of money is about the same. Another danger would be to force us to go to regional pay, and that would be immediately. This means that from the payment we have now different and for the field for lawns, unfortunately, we have the wrong relationship, we are going to the same payment all over the country right now. I have to say that we have, I think, succeeded within the dimensions that, although the whole of Europe goes slowly into regional payment, that is to say payment [[Incomprehensible]] The same. Of course, we must explain that we have different relations as regards Slovenia. We have managed to maintain the amount of money, but we have also managed to keep it in the final stage because we were united outside and because we joined the right group of countries. We have managed to negotiate another two models, and the first model is that whatever is happening is happening gradually until 2019 so that a specific farm can be adapted, and what is important, we have managed to negotiate together with some other small countries, such as Ireland, and some others, the model of partial convergence. In spite of the fact that payments are being equalised, the status of an individual farm should be seen so as not to be excessively fluctuating. In addition, it is necessary to know that the production link, which is in fact now proposed, further reduces inter-regional redistribution. So there's gonna be some inter-regional shifts. At farm level, these movements may be smaller. But there's something else I'd like to warn you. At this point, there is very much debate, let us put in place a reduction factor or coefficient. That means, let's get the weeds reduced somewhere. But we must not forget that if someone advocates this, he advocates in some way additional difficult conditions for mountain and altitude farms. And in mountain and altitude farms, 50% of the farms producing milk are currently located. And the mountain highlands aren't supposed to go anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Now he has the floor, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Minister with a team, nice greeting! So if we take a very concrete look at what we are talking about today, about the penalties, about the winemaking law that was passed under this government. Article 56 states that with a fine of 650, which is at least 6 thousand 500, that is, what colleague Horvat said before me is ten times more than the lowest to the highest, shall be punished for the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article by a smaller producer producing grapes, must, wine or other products as a natural person. The first paragraph of Article 56 also states, inter alia, "if it does not notify the data in the register as provided for in Article 15 of this Act". In article 15, among other things, all that is in the register, that is to say, if you don't tell me about the supply of must, wine or other products, the use of by-products from grapes and wine, it means that if it gets wet or you don't make it out of that rain, and if you don't report it, you're gonna get 50 liters of vinegar and you're gonna pay 650 to 6000 500 euros in fines. Or the use of wine for your own consumption. It means if you drink a little more for a month or so, and you didn't report it, because you're having a party, you're going to pay 6,000,500 euros in fines. I did a little caricature, too, on purpose. But those who punish the law enforcement officers say they only implement. They say they're doing what's written down. We do not have a culture in the implementation of legislation on offences to warn us that we would have a curve. First warning, second penalty, third time, I don't know, you increase by 20%, 30% and so on in all areas. But given the budget that's always empty, it's the inspectors' job, the ones who bring in the money, and the police, to hit as hard as they can. And then, too, I'm sorry, and we know that because people tell us that, they also consider their employment, their activity, their ability, and I don't know what else. The punishments should, in my profound belief, prevent not farming, but bribery. Farmers should be encouraged by criminal policy, not punished for what we have. The fact is that we really talk very little about agriculture to people in the National Assembly and talk too little about agriculture. Of course, if we were to talk more about agriculture, we would have significantly less fertile areas today. The Slovenian countryside would have been more treated and could thus have lower unemployment. Schools in this area could also have greater, better, more popular meaning, and this could simply be worth it. But the fact is, in our country, we are not comparable to some large agricultural areas, but we are what we are, and what we have must be encouraged and preserved. Slovenian countryside has preserved Slovenian farmers for 14 centuries, so we are in this area as we are. When you read, you hear that with as little self-care as we've had lately, we've never been. As far as I know, the piggy's been destroyed. As far as I know, poultry ptuj is lurking in front of us because of the unfortunate mismanagement, because of some of the actions the management has done in Mercury and so on. In short, they lost a lot of money, and people work there in extremely bad, so I have to say, difficult conditions for extremely low pay. Vegetables and fruit farming, which were important industries in Slovenia, are now completely extinct as far as vegetable farming is concerned. You know, all this is also because, as we have discussed several times about the use of European funds, this is now about direct payments to farmers, which will be discussed today by the Committee on Agriculture. The National Assembly or Members of Parliament have not been informed about these matters, but the Government is only doing so in its own way. It works, even as far as cohesion policy is concerned, contrary to the legislation in force, because it should have two operational programmes for the two cohesion regions, and none of this is the case. If we move on. Unfortunately, agricultural land is often used as a pig with fur. A few minutes ago, I came from the Ministry of Transport, where we were once again alerted to the preservation of a certain agricultural land for the construction of a road along the railway that could take place outside agricultural land, not because of some of the corrupt intentions of some employees. I hope that, on the basis of this meeting today with farmers, the Ministry will take this meeting seriously in order to preserve it. So there are a lot of things that we should be dealing with. And if I did, I believe that the coalition and the opposition could often find common ground. Not in the best interests of the minister, we have heard. Now, if it's best because he meant to make a state forest company, it's not supported by foresters, by the way, but we should find a common word for the good of us, the state, the people, the self-sustainment. Like I said, you can't grow and be market interesting on small farms like you got 100 acres ahead. However, this is our country, and this should also be encouraged through state reserves. Buy-outs should be ensured in smaller processors, not in the way I had previously read one specific case with penalties, how to punish without paying for the entire year's crop. In ten years, he can't produce as much as an inspector under this law can punish him for one stupid thing. But where some, certainly not all, certainly not those farms, which are not their primary activity, will read all this legislation and how much it is and how much it changes. The purpose of criminal policy should be and should be protection, protection of the farmer and of those who are also engaged in complementary activities in relation to traders. I agree that rural tourism can have a farm that deals with agriculture and what belongs to rural tourism. Surely someone can't have it, but it does exist, and this should be pursued by farming tourism with the fact that "farmer tourism" is actually a catering offer of a guest who thus bypasses certain legislation. Look what we've done to this farmer. We have already stated in the Slovenian People's Party's position today, as you know, a mandatory bookkeeping for those who have more than €7 000 of total income per member of the farm household from basic agricultural activity. If you ask me, it's too low. Compulsory accounting is again a cost. I think that when we pointed this out, we even calculated that it was one bull a year that you had to line up and give it just to cover those costs. The subsidies, we know that so far they have been taken into account at 50%, will now account for 100% of the tax base and so on. In addition to the cadastral income, thank God that the Constitutional Court has repealed the Real Estate Tax Act, which the whole government has stood by with all the heads it has, and has shown itself to be quite empty. And so is this penal policy. It would therefore suggest that more should be done in this direction, if you ask me, in the area of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, where some of the functions it has in management have decreased, so their content is significantly smaller. I am thinking of denationalisation procedures, return, although this is still happening, but this is significantly smaller and we should make the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in such a way as to also manage land, with forests, as well as, I don't know, the Employment Institute. This should be a company that manages the unemployed and would be paid or has a reward after how much work they have done, not after how many courses, seminars or what I know. Therefore, much more should be done through the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, if given this task, to deal with both areas that are dying out to us, as I mentioned earlier, with fruit, vegetables, pigs and so on, on the other hand, reducing unemployment and in the area of, that is, in the social sector where we have compensation for the unemployed, then we would not need so many different subsidies or livelihoods, but could be encouraged in this area. We have many opportunities here, but unfortunately none of this has happened in the agriculture ministry in the last year. The problem is not so much a minister as a team around him. But it is his fault, as he himself sets up advisors and then a large part of the profession, such as farmers from Styria and Prekmurje, are extremely bitter about these subsidies, how it will be in the next financial perspective, and what will be discussed today in the Committee on Agriculture. The punishments, as I said before, protection and education should work, not act in the direction of rejecting young people who make decisions and stay at home in the countryside. You know, if we had the provinces, if we had them otherwise, a large part of this policy would belong to a regional or a provincial level, and we could be more effective there on these matters than it is at the level of the country. And this would certainly be a guarantee for the further development of the self-sustainment of Slovenian agriculture and rural areas. But to talk about how the opposition was the bad one that really had to be put over its knees, even today, I was surprised that the President of the National Assembly was not one of the discussers when he came on behalf of the parliamentary group, stopped when he started with a speech by Jožet Tank and SDS and I don't know what he was doing before he got to the content. Talking about how it's all O.K., it's not going to work. Dear Social Democrats, with Minister of the Jews you will have to kneel and say Mea maxima culpa, these are our great sins, 7 billion you have put your trust in the country in the time of Mr Pahor. Where have these billions gone, where are they, how many new jobs are there, which agricultural production have you restored? You will have to make a threefold deeper gift or bow before the Slovenian nation, when you explain, not to my grandchildren who are now born, but to children who will only be born, how to settle the 8 billion poofs of the last year of rule, and how to be the best mission of this government on the basis that you raised taxes because you destroyed the economy, craftsmanship and agriculture and raised penalties. In short, all of this will have to be systematically pursued and reviewed, as someone has said, not only this, but the entire agricultural legislation. Because today we are talking about agricultural legislation, of course, a lot of other things, and today some of you are very guilty or co-responsible in this Chamber, but I do not know how you will respond when European funds are not used in 2015. Of course, in the agricultural field they will be the best and the most, we know this, but what could also give any job in the field of production, complementary activities or launching new production, but of course there will be no what has happened before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u138	I think it is wrong that we are now talking about other things like the interest rate before this government was created, whether we could get credit or not, what economic growth was like when this government took over the job, and now that it's leaving, I think it's wrong that we are talking at this meeting because we are talking about agriculture. However, I can tell you what has changed in the area of agriculture, as far as the value of production and those parameters related to agriculture are concerned. But I would like something else, honourable Member, to warn you, because it has been perceived that we are intent on burdening farmers. What's happening in practice, I've said through the numbers. We need to know that, in essence, the average agricultural and environmental inspectorate, which controls most of everything in the field of agriculture, collects a million and a half or a million euro fines annually. Every euro that goes from agriculture is too much, but that's just this value. And here I want to remind you of what you were going to do, and your coalition stopped you. Through the amendment of the Forest Act, you wanted to take EUR 2 million from Slovenian forest owners on an annual basis. And your coalition stopped you in January of last year. So more or significantly more than all agricultural penalties are collected. That's why I hate to hear who takes money from farmers and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Shmodish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dearly beloved, good afternoon! In view of the discussions and presentations by the proposer so far, I have two questions. Since Mr. Židan and his team are doing excellent work at the Ministry of Agriculture – is this the problem of this meeting? Or is it another issue of the polls that the elections are approaching? I don't know, but I get the feeling that these two things are pretty connected. As the Minister has already mentioned, at the time of his ministry, there was significantly less punishment than at the time of his predecessor. But you know who the predecessor was. That's why I wouldn't talk about it. I would also point out, if I understood correctly, that the proposer of the extraordinary meeting, when he was in the government, had proposed significantly higher penalties than they are now. That's really interesting. High or too high a sentence. For offenders, every sentence is too high. Only for those who don't make a profit out of it. What do those who have never been punished and live honestly think? Most of the time, they will say that all punishments are too low because they live honestly because honesty has been mentioned several times. Let us also ask ourselves about this in view of today's debate. I had a feeling that our farmers were big violators. I come from Prlecja, Pomurje, where we have many small and large farmers, many vineyards, small and large, and I know that most of them are honest and working people and they don't break laws. They also have no problems with penalties and not with carriers. Because I know people, and I have relatives who have farms, they have big farms, they work, and they have no problems with that. That's why I'm surprised when it's now said that all farmers have problems. That's not true. Someone also said there was no one on the farmer's side. We support rural development as much as possible by the Social Democrats and Minister of the Jews. You can also come to our places, the countryside is developing. The Ministry of Self-Sustainment is fighting a lot. I don't think there's been a problem that our self-sustainment at the time of the minister of the Jews would have fallen, but that was what happened before. It is also interesting when it was said earlier that farmers are being spoken of badly. I must say, in our places, the farmer is respected and is a gentleman. But not as it was said here, he's being misinterpreted. The next thing in Pomour is that a lot of young people take over farms, which is also positive. In the end, I'd like to add the following. Mr Dejan Židan is the first agricultural minister to protect small and large vineyards and farmers in Slovenia. If you talk to them, they agree. But everywhere it is, everyone doesn't agree everywhere, that's fine. If not, it would be different. The achievements of the Ministry of Agriculture are visible and, as I can see, this is also the right path, but it is not all overnight. Once again, it might be possible to repeat certain laws, where it was previously said that rural areas were being destroyed. For example, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine, after the request and consent of the winemakers, was adopted by a resolution on the protection of the cranium bee, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kobilna Lipica, promotion, a plan for the promotion of agricultural products, a promotion campaign of local quality, internal communication. Is this the destruction of the countryside? I don't know. But I don't think it destroys a local farmer, as has been said many times. In the end, I would say, and it might look a little funny, but Slovenia would need more ministers like Dejan Židan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič, mag. Majda Potrate, Mr Dragan Bosic, Mr Janez Ribič and then Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it is very important, initially, to say a few things and respond to some interesting discussions by coalition partners and MPs who have tried to attack the Slovenian Democratic Party through their discussions and why we are discussing today this issue that we are discussing in the National Assembly. I personally assess that this action, which does not have any basis in the debates of these Members, is nothing at all, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed this for a clear purpose, in order to draw attention to the problems and to the things that are problematic to Slovenian people, to Slovenian farmers, to Slovenian agriculture, to Slovenian rurals and so on. To talk about the fact that, through this debate, the Slovenian Democratic Party is leading an electoral campaign, I think that this is an extremely low-level act of those who are still aware of the major mistakes that have been made and are taking place when they have adopted such and other harmful solutions for the Slovenian countryside for the Slovenian farmer and so on. And among them are the punishments that we are talking about today. I am absolutely sure that in the last year this government has done everything in its power to attack the countryside, to attack agriculture, to attack the rural environment. The reasons, according to my personal assessment, are very predictable. Because in the countryside you have no opportunity to make centralisations in the way that this left man imagines in his views and decisions he makes. Yesterday, I must say that I was very surprised when the Minister of Agriculture allowed himself to say that Slovenian agriculture must be satisfied if the left government is in power. This is for reasons that have revolutionized me very much. But not because of me, he revolutionized me because of people living in a rural environment living in the countryside and those being burdened by this government with such high penalties, he burdens them with taxes such as real estate taxes. The government was not the one, and this coalition was not the one that withdrew this real estate tax, which overly burdened every individual, every farmer, the entire rural environment, but had to be done by the Constitutional Court at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also at the initiative of the opposition parties of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. This was decided by the Constitutional Court and not by the Government and not by Minister Židan. And I don't know how Minister Jedhan allows himself to speak such nonsense. Let's go ask the farmer to go ask the country how they're thinking about what kind of law the government allowed to adopt when it took a real estate tax. And, Minister, please, go among the people and say that it was you who sat in this government and in this coalition, the SD, the Social Democrats, who adopted such a law, which had to be annulled by the Constitutional Court. You were sitting, exactly you personally, and tell this to the Slovenian public. In this government, which has adopted such an averagely harmful solution. And, Mr Minister, you know exactly how accurate, very clear and very responsible it has been today that certain penalties in these various laws are invariable and harmful and are a direct attack – in addition to these laws and tax burdens that have been adopted – on rural areas, on agriculture and so on. And to return, Mr. Minister of the Jews, please listen. There are only three things I'm going to say again that we know what we're talking about. It's about a new law on forests. I'm going to repeat three things that need to be heard 100 times to understand what you're doing with your decisions. Under the new Forest Act, a fine of between EUR 5 and 50,000 is provided for the transport of timber without carriage or with poorly completed carriers for legal persons and craftsmen. Is that true, Mr. Secretary, or is it not? Is that true? All right, you'll tell me when you have a chance. In the Wine Act, if the wine producer misuses the geographical indication or traditional term, if he does not mark the vessel or announce to the wine inspector the possession of the must, the inspector may punish him with a fine of EUR 2 000 to EUR 28 000. Is it true or not? Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you whether it's true or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u143	Then the minister will call.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u144	Okay. Then he'll be in touch. Then, for small producers, the penalties range from €650 to €6000 500. Mr. Secretary, is that true or not? Yeah, why are you looking at me, say yes or no. Thirdly, the Law on Nature Conservation prescribes 5,000 to 10,000 euros in fines to legal persons for driving and parking in nature. For craftsmen, such punishment is thousands to 5,000 euros, and the offender may also lose his vehicle. Is this written in the bill or is it not, Mr. Secretary? I'm asking you: is it true or not true? Now I've only mentioned three things and I'm asking you whether this government and this coalition seem to be proportionate to the amount of the offence. If we're just looking at this thing about agriculture. And on the other hand, the bank, the bank story and the penalties that are there. If we compare these two things, Mr. Secretary. I am convinced that this government and this coalition should understand and realize that what it has accepted and what is also proposed in one part of that third point, that this is unacceptable, unacceptable to Slovenian farmers, to Slovenian rurals and especially to Slovenian people. And, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, what the government is when you were Minister of Agriculture in the Pahor government, and the government of Alenka Bratušek, composed of the coalition of Social Democrats, DeSUS, Virant List, then we have Jankovic List and now a piece of Bratušek List, I don't know how they'll specifically agree on numbers, who will be here, who will be there, but something important, 8 billion and a little over you owe the country at the time of the reign of Borut Pahor, in which you were sitting as Minister. And almost the same in one year is ruled by Alenka Bratušek. This together is almost €17 billion. From 17 to 18 billion euros, I'm not going to talk about exact numbers. I speak roughly and I have said about the number, but even if it is 17 or 19, in any case unacceptable, it goes beyond all the limits of good taste. And it's practically clear, and the calculations show that you have a Slovenian man, almost every individual born, as I said yesterday, in charge of 15,000. When the child is born, he owes 15,000 euros. Is that to be overlooked or laughed at? I'm not. Slovenian Democratic Party not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u145	No, but let's focus on the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u146	I'll finish it, Madam Vice President. I'm asking you nicely because others have said everything they've made up, and you haven't broken up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u147	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u148	Please allow me to say it to the end, too. These two governments, which have entrusted citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with such an amount of between €17 billion and €19 billion in four years, I am convinced that this is a crime against the Slovenian people. This is a crime against Slovenian agriculture, which you have recently done with these taxes, burdens, penalties. This is a crime, I repeat, against the Slovenian people, what this coalition is, this government and also the government that has entrusted Slovenia with 8 billion euros. If I were you, I'd think a lot about what I just said. If you will be respected by the Social Democrats, Mrs Majda Potrata always looks at me pleasantly, kindly always, I smile so beautifully, I like it very much, she likes to say how you are fighting extremely for the social state. And to talk about the social state and at the same time to assign the child, when he comes into the world, for 15 thousand euros, we can ask ourselves where he is, which direction he is and who he will be, I am sure, at some point in time must be responsible for such decisions that are far from the decisions that Slovenia and Slovenia want. However, they are the most unacceptable decisions that anyone in the Slovenian political space has taken to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, to the detriment of Slovenian farmers, to the detriment of Slovenian rurals and to the detriment of virtually every individual in this Slovenian country, except the rich, except the privileged and those who live as small gods in this country, who cannot be touched by anything. Speaking of penalties, it would be extremely important for you once to hear how many penalties have been taken from those who have damaged the Slovenian financial system. Those who were in the supervisory boards of Slovenian banks, those who ran the administrations of Slovenian banks and those who sat on the executive chairs of Slovenian banks and so on. I think that it would be crucial, but not with such unacceptable penalties, to burden the farmer and the one who drives 5 or 6 cubic metres of wood with such an unacceptable penalty. I think that this government should be envisioned over these solutions that it has adopted in its mandate. I hope that in a very short time there will be new elections and that voters will take a decision in favour of the Slovenian country, Slovenian citizens and citizens, not in favour of those who have sat here and abused their positions and have done what they have done, from the Slovenian country and the Slovenian nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u150	You're right. I've been thinking a lot about your speech, but it's not likely that's the reason you want it. First thing I could think of was who managed to write so much wrong information into your speech. What six cubits? Where does that say he needs a document for six cubits? What's 5,000 euros? Where does it say that? Please read the current law nicely, not something from history, because we talked about history, including who prescribed 50,000 euros in fines in 2007, we will not talk for a while. But here's what I want to say. Maybe you'll be interested. When I was first minister in the world of agricultural ministers of the European Union, we were three of the left-wing ministers, the SND is said to be socialists, Democrats, SPD ministers, whatever. There are nine of us right now. There'll be more of us. And I'll tell you why. Because the view of the countryside has also changed. The countryside is now seen as a production, it is also seen as an environmental one, and it is also seen as a social one. Therefore, the new policy, which is also implemented in Slovenia, is no longer referred to as an intensive agricultural policy, but as a socio-economic agricultural policy. I know you don't like the fact that people in the countryside are increasingly looking for a solution, not in the right-wing governments, but in the left-wing coalitions, that you don't like it. But this is the state of things not only in Slovenia, but also the wider one around us, and I would suggest that you accept this, because this is the direction of movement. Well, I think that's the right direction of movement. And there's something else I'd like to say. We are also discussing the general economic situation all the time, although I understand that this is not the subject of today's debate, I must answer you. I remember the government of Borut Pahor, even though I wasn't there from the beginning for what you left him. Instead of money in the cash register, you left him spider nets and spiders. The government was then, and the country before it got down. However, I must say that Mr Pahor's very good policy and his assistants were then able to stabilise the country. And when Pahor's government finished its mandate, it was able to regain economic growth. She wasn't very scary, but we made it back. Economic growth is the one that allows us to collect taxes, to pay such education, health care and all. And then there was a disaster again, and that was the right government. What did the right government do? I saw that because this time I was a minister from the beginning. We had our first quarter almost 5% economic growth down, so it's a decline, not a growth. Now that we are leaving — what are we leaving? We are making such predictions that even one German institution, which everyone in Europe takes into account, has calculated 1.5% of us. We have taken interest from you between 6% and 7% and managed to get them to 3.4%, I think today. Look, the cost of the budget is not a general charge, but the cost of the debt is margins. And I must say, it is true that the government is leaving, and I agree with what the Prime Minister has said, the government is leaving proudly. Whoever's behind us, whether the left-wing government again, which I think would be useful for Slovenia, or whether we'll have the tar again to the right. We've done something useful for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u152	Just for a little while. I will not answer to some things, but I will do one important thing, at the beginning of the Minister's debate. I said it, and now I'm going to say it again, Mr. Minister, and I'm going to ask you again whether that's true or not. It's written in the Evening. Now I'm going to quote. Now you're going to tell me again whether that's true or not. "Under the new Forest Act, a fine of between €5 and €50,000 is foreseen for the transport of timber without carriers or with poorly completed carriers for legal persons and craftsmen." Now I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. Did the person who wrote this lie, and that's not true what you said, or is that true? That's all I care about. It's not like anyone would ever allow himself to repeat what you said again. It looked like I was lying. It says it right here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u154	I have to say, it's not the journalist's fault that he attributed the data from the non-quality material. It is up to you to decide whether you will trust the members of the magazine or the Official Journal. Can I copy the Official Journal for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have received the best government expert to comment on public financial developments in times of government. I would like to remind him that, within the 2004-2008 mandate, the government of Janez Janša was among those who had the best indicators within the European Union. The best. There's verifiable data from Umar, from anyone. And that the period of Borut Pahor was one of the worst in the European Union when he waited for the French-German train. The state was stagnant and falling. As far as budgets are concerned, more or less of a level playing field, the liabilities are negligible. When you arrived, 8 billion came with you in three years, when you made 8 billion in one year. Add that up. At the end of the day, there's no money for student tickets, no money for investments, no money for nothing, and the finance minister says he's got a lot of money. So what's he holding? Mr. Cuffer's statement yesterday in Portorož or today's message from Minister Omerzel? But you're sitting together in the same government. One has nothing, can't even repair broken bridges, the other boasts in excess of money. You don't have the money to cover your own participation in cohesion funds, projects stand. Only with VAT would we get 7% on the part invested, without what is related to the payments for contributions and so on. Well, Mr. Secretary, if you're already gone. Don't hold what you're saying, but you can pour yourself, talk whatever you want, don't hold it, don't hold it, the system doesn't hold it. If they were that good, we wouldn't be going every two months for three billion abroad, creating a home. If they were as good, they wouldn't give you as much as a deficit for just food abroad per year, they'd get home. Or most of it. And the pig production will collapse at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u158	Thank you very much. It is nice of you to mention the period 2004-2008, so politely said economists, the period of overheating in Slovenia, when Slovenia grossly owed 6 billion each year. As much of a gross debt as it was in your lifetime, there was nowhere to be found. Gross debt of €6 billion and look what happened What's gross debt? [[…]] This is the responsibility of the State and all others living outside this country. 6 billion euros a year. Whether it's good or not, I don't know. Economists say this overheating was a reason for later [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u159	I pray for peace in the hall [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u160	bad things have happened. [[…]] I've managed to maintain a culture of dialogue, the SDS obviously can't, but that's your problem, that's not my problem, sir. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u161	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u162	What was the question, I would like to repeat the following. [[…]] As far as the implementation of agricultural policy is concerned, I can assure you that we are paying very quickly, generally even earlier than in previous years – so money is available. As far as environmental policy is concerned, I must say that I have taken a very difficult situation out of your hands here. Only 18% of the money was used. The matter, however, was indecisive if Minister Bogovic did not do what he did at the end of 2012 — overcommittee. Maybe I'd say two or three good facts. The issue that was insurmountable now looks like this. You know that only €548.5 million of European money is available, with the overcommitment available, and until now, 630 and 640 co-financing contracts will be signed and 680 will be signed at any time. And that allowed the construction boom to happen. In April alone, €10 million was reimbursed for these European projects. If you, respected and respected, have read the Umar report well, why economic growth started last year and why it continues this year, you will see that the environmental cohesion that we are successfully saving for you is specifically mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'd beg that there's peace in the hall when someone speaks. It is not about respect for the Rules of Procedure, it is about respect for each other and respect for ministers and Members who speak. Procedural proposal. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wanted to give a replica to the Minister, so there won't be a procedural proposal, but there will be a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u165	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u166	So it wouldn't have been said that I took advantage of something else. Mr. Minister, when you were talking about economic growth. With 8 billion debt, you can also do something about economic growth. You'll probably agree with me. But you know, economic growth has been due to two issues in the last quarter. For the first time, it was due to exporters because the economy has improved in Europe. And secondly, because of the projects we carried out in 2012. So two projects to raise European funds, start investment. Once for a little over 450, together for a little over 900 million euros, and for an additional 500 million euros in investment money. That's one. Of this, we will pay education, health care and so on, not from the one billion euros we have today in the interest budget. When you became a minister in the previous government, you took over the government with about 200 million euros in interest. Now we have a billion euros just for interest. And here's the problem. What you said earlier, at the time of the government, when Mr Bogovic was Minister, less depths have been raised than in your time by 17% – I went to the magnetogram to look. It is true, but the adoption of legislation such as winemaking has not been a single fine, and such legislation with such drastic fines is without connection, it is without meaning, it is barren work. We have labor power in energy. The inspectors must do their job, as I said in my debate, to protect the farmer. The aim of politics is not to incapacitate, but to punish those who deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u168	What is in the hands of the government is the borrowing of the budget and the treasury related to the budget. Gross debt is the personal debt of citizens or businesses. This has nothing to do with the state budget. First. That's something the Secretary of State might have known by now. Secondly, the greatest time of the previous financial perspective was ruled by you, the left. If there were no previous government and no Bogovich, nothing would have been drained. Now we're starting a new perspective and nothing is done. That's what every mayor knows. There's no operational program done. So what are you bragging about? Nothing. And so it is in many other areas. The only thing that works is borrowing, raising taxes, penalties and employment in the public sector. That is all you have done in this mandate when you are in government, and also in the previous Pahor government alike. But you were looking for money on the outside market to do that. It's nothing to invest. Two months ago, the Prime Minister was unable to list one anti-crisis measure. And if you want to know why economic growth is, read the European Commission report, at least the first sentence of this last report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u170	I usually have a habit of reading at least two sentences, so I won't follow your instructions, no offense. In general, environmental cohesion, because you know why it was a problem. The problem has been decisions issued since 2007. Who betrayed them? Look at the signatures, please. Decisions protecting municipalities in such a way that they do not protect the state in any way. Indeed, you are right, but if there were no additional spending rights that were not just for agriculture, this former minister is right, more were there, for agriculture there were 182 all rights, additional spending was 500 and something, the matter would be completely insurmountable. Now it's a matter of resolution, and I'll tell you that as a plus. As for the new financial perspective, I must tell you, both the programme and the draft contract are where they should be – on the committee. Otherwise, it's not run by the agriculture ministry, we all know it together, it's the management body. But I do have assurances that the talks are going very well and that everything will be signed in good time. For what I said, I can tell you next. The rural development programme, which has been coordinated in Slovenia for a long time, at the end of the last year intensively, is as a draft that allows us to negotiate with the European Union, Slovenia sent either the first or as one of the first countries to Brussels, and this was last November. This is a billion hundred. I hope that we will also discuss this at least on the Committee on Agriculture, because in a few weeks or two, three months, we have to coordinate the final version. We're actually in time here, and even if you look at the benefits, you'll see such direct payments, the benefits ten years ago, or the first year was bad, only 64%. However, this is entirely another reason, it is not the ability or incompetence of organs or governments. From here on out, he was good. And even as we look at the last years, we see that it's moving somewhere from 99 to 97, but this difference is not due to the incompetence of the Slovenian administration, but to some of the modality that the European Union is in the middle of, and also some of the money sometimes takes back to do some interventions at European Union level. Thus, for agriculture, money is relatively well pumped, even as rural development programmes are concerned, it is relatively well pumped. However, I agree with you, and there will be a lot of work to be done in the area of the environment, including strengthening the administrative work, and the administration, unfortunately, in these times of crisis, when there are certain prohibitions, minus 1%, minus 1%, more difficult than in the times of the conjuncture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a team, MPs and MPs! I'm afraid the three gentlemen I'm going to react to are not here. Still, it's worth saying. Of course, I am proud that Slovenia has a legal and social state enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution. My satisfaction is even greater because I can say that the authors of the Slovenian Constitution originally only had in mind the record that Slovenia is a rule of law. With the amendment of my party and some others, then the opposition parties were later introduced this part of the text that we now have in the constitution it is written that Slovenia is a legal and social state. So much for history and how much someone has to do with something. Then it was said that English was richer than Slovenian because of the expression also passed by Slovenian. Agriculture is also the word of the Slovenian vocabulary, except that it is spoken differently by the English, and both of us have taken the word from the same word source. But to take over and appreciate agriculture in Slovenia, let's just look at it and talk about cultural plants, agricultural cultures, cultural landscapes and so on. So this term is not reserved only for the English-speaking area, which is supposed to be richer than Slovenian. And the third thing I'd like to talk about. Of course, I greatly appreciate Slovenian agriculture. But the role of agriculture has changed throughout history. The proportion of the population that lived in agriculture also changed. But I can't imagine what would happen to us as a nation if there were no educated people in this nation, including citizens and all those professions that enable us to live normal lives in a community like the modern state. And we do not wonder whether we can forget what place we assign to Trubar or to Prešern or to Cankar or to Kosovel or to anyone else from the present time. It is impossible for a modern nation to remain at the level of a literary taste that would only acknowledge faith, but it has also grown. I did not think that we would discuss such issues of a general nature on this subject, which we are discussing today at an extraordinary meeting. But it is good to say that we also have very different views on these general issues. Now for the dark. Proposal for a recommendation on excessive penalties in agriculture. She didn't recommend it. Therefore, the address is such that it is difficult to talk about a recommendation that is not available and about which the Legislative and Legal Service has had so many comments. I know the proponent said that what if the law-law service wrote something down, whether it was taken into account or not. But I would like to acknowledge to the opposition all the right to make requests for emergency meetings to be more consistent and to prepare quality material, particularly such conclusions or recommendations as could be taken into account. In fact, it is now at least a recommendation, it is no longer a decision because we have already taken it, because this has been taken into account in the recommendations or opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. But the Legal and Legislative Service points out exactly the flat-rate claim that is set out in the agenda item – excessive punishment in agriculture. And it points out that in the 1st Recommendation, there are only three laws to prove more, only three cases to prove these excessive penalties. It no longer seems to me particularly important to note that there is a need to know what is in the law and that there are fines for natural persons and other fines for legal persons and so on and that there must be a lot of consideration, because then we could not carry out the the thesis that there are enormous penalties prescribed in the laws for those who commit minor offences, and it would not be possible to put into question the fundamental purpose of this action, that the government of Alenka Bratušek is working against the countryside and the Slovenian farmer. How can this be hard to prove? This thesis is not proven, I'm very sorry. And all of a sudden, please read this from the report of the committee meeting, where it also says that three cases of fines for violations of the three laws in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service are not sufficient to assess that high penalties are a general problem in the whole area of agriculture. It also continues to say that the second recommendation is unclear because the cause of the alleged disproportionate punishment in agriculture, which is the weight of the offences, does not prove. That there is an indeterminate measure to which the criminal provisions in agriculture should be compared. Today we listened to the transport of dangerous substances as a comparison. And this similitude, this is something that I usually see in the texts of SDS. It speaks of comparable countries – yes, what are comparable countries now? However, they do not say by what criteria countries compare each other. Well, let me put it this way. Recently, my colleague Sam Bevko and I addressed a written question to the Minister of Economy regarding the protection of Slovenian plants. And just for example, in Slovenia we have 3,000 500 species of plants, but England has just a few thousand species. Well, is England now comparable to Slovenia? There's a problem with comparability. It's always a question of what we're comparing. Of course, we will find enormous differences if we compare them incomparably. We need to know what the basis is, what the criteria are before us. Of course, this is an opportunity to ask ourselves, What is the situation in agriculture? And if that's why I think it's the Minister of Magi's direction. The Jew is good because he constantly reminds us that food and water are important strategic raw materials and one of the most important currencies, those who will decide on life in the future. But my colleagues have said so much about what we think about this request, that it is unacceptable and insufferable for us to touch other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u173	Thank you, too. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Janez Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u174	Thank you. I feel the need to talk to someone because I'm lonely here. I would argue with a slightly different view, from the point of view of nature. Nature has no electoral rights, so I will not try to be liked, but I will have some facts about the penalties, because we are still at the first point, as far as I am following the case, even though we have drifted away for a moment. The Law on Forests and the Law on Preservation of Nature, which is under procedure, and the penalties which are marked here as excessive penalties. In this House, I have heard two statements that were very interesting to me. We talked about environmental pollution once, and someone said that the polluter should pay. Then we talked about violations of the forest law, in short, regarding the carrier, and it was said that the violator should pay. My starting point is slightly different: "Those who pollute, and those who break, let them cease." And now criminal policy in this regard. I agree with the minister that he has to say no. That's a priority, as far as nature's concerned, it has to resist. Changes in the environment, whether it's a forest or anything else, any other system, are irreversible. That means there's no way to get change back. If we look at the light of a new law, the impact on biodiversity. So the irreversible process, if you're doing something like this, has to be a law or a penal policy to keep you from this kind of idea. That's another thing. If I look at the price list of some offenses, fines, fines, then I can reverse the matter differently and say that this punishment can be calculated. This means that I see that the environment is marketable goods, and those who have money can then afford greater environmental interventions. Why am I saying this? I don't think of the forest as a shade. If you tell my grandson to draw a forest, he won't be drawing a truck with logs. It is simply an ecosystem, a rather sensitive ecosystem, and all the work that leads to the obstruction of these systems must be prevented. This can be done with punishments that deter someone from doing it. To raise someone at 60, you could talk more about some discipline, or I don't know what, it's impossible, or it's illusory to expect. This means that these same logs, which were once trees, cannot be put back, so the matter of criminal, criminal policy must be prevented, prevented in the sense of dissuading one of these practices. The same applies then to the law which is in the procedure, the law on conservation of nature. The only thing that works now, the positive feedback we can't get through, and it won't be for long. And the punitive moment of punishment, where someone would have taken the punishment, understood it, understood it. It is an illusion, it is a utopia, waiting for this moment or for this time, it can be quite dangerous for the environment. This debate in Parliament has also been perceived by me as a pre-eminent one, but I do not take it the wrong way, nothing seems wrong to me, because at the end of the day we all have the opportunity to face our opinions. But for the reasons mentioned above, I am of the opinion, and I will repeat this once again, that it is by no means too high a sentence, although it is funny that as the first point I have to accept this as a fact, so that I can press the key for that so that I can discuss this point afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u175	Thank you, too. Mr Ribič could have had the floor, but he's not in the hall right now. That is why Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, President. A respected minister with co-workers! Why an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the subject of great penalties and fines? Because of the fact that it does not burden the Slovenian farmer because you then argued that the fines were not much pronounced. That's exactly the problem. This is a simple intimidation of the Slovenian farmer. In addition to all the raises, taxes, forecasts of what will happen, and a truly Slovenian farmer is in a cramp. He's afraid of anything. A forecast and a large range of fines of several hundred euros, up to a few tens of thousands of euros, is nothing more than a coming and means some selection of punishment. So, if anyone thinks someone or likes some farm somehow, that farmer will be punished with an enormously high sentence. Where is this farmer going to complain? I think that this farmer must be fully protected mainly because the Slovenian farmer has poor experience with the former system. The Slovenian farmer was underestimated in the former system, I can say that he was somehow pushed to the edge of Slovenian society. Not to mention that we peasant children were less valuable when we had health cards of different colors. We had greens. And by doing so, we have lost all rights, all social transfers. In those days, Slovenian farmers were very difficult to educate. I therefore believe that the Slovenian farmer must be protected both at the level of taxes and penalties and fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. It will probably be very difficult to say something new after so many hours of discussion on this topic. I am pleased that this debate has calmed down a little. For a while she was furiously ferocious. I followed the debate in my office because I had some other responsibilities. If anything, it is important that we speak in this agricultural hall today. We don't have a lot of options and opportunities in this room. Of course, I would be much more happy to talk about some other subjects than punishment. At this moment and now, not just at this moment and now, even at some time sooner and later, it will be very pleasant to talk about this matter. because we don't have too many in numbers if we have and if we're being punished. I want to say something, however, that Slovenian farmers respect the rules and are not great violators. Here and there, there are some, but not great violators. In particular, if we are talking about wood, listen, we must not forget that farmers, foresters can suddenly drive 6 cubic metres of wood without a transporter. You know, that's not a small amount. I own the forest myself, and we cut, and that's quite a lot of wood. For what do I particularly welcome the talk of agriculture? I come from this state, and I myself have been professionally engaged in agriculture, and I am also the owner of agricultural land, which I am also working with the help of my younger people. And I'm so much more sensitive to this question. If I touched other categories – vineyards. It is true that the vine growers themselves wanted order to be made in this area. And it is right to tell you that in Slovenia there are many good vineyarders and at the same time also clerics who have trained and offer quality in the market. In particular, it may be because they are aware that there is no quality to sell wine. However, those who are smaller produce more or less this wine for their own needs and for their friends, as they also distribute it after the harvest to all those who come to this event. I'd be happy if you could talk to me about one other question today. About how Slovenian farmer takes care of the landscape. You know, Slovenia and the Slovenian farmer must never be ashamed, it can also be, in pride, comparable to other European countries, how we regulate the landscape. If someone else, rather than a Slovenian farmer, were to regulate this landscape, some would grant him subsidies, it would be a question of how this country would be regulated and how much a country would cost to regulate the country. We must acknowledge this to the Slovenian farmer, and we must also respect this in Parliament and also in government institutions. I am also invited by various agricultural societies to their various events. I'm very concerned when I hear percentages of self-sustainment in the fields of vegetables, in the areas of cereals, in the areas of meat production, in one or the other, in the third, in the fourth, as you wish. This is a matter of concern, and we should also speak about this subject in the future in this Hall. However, I would suggest to my colleagues that, even in the coming minutes, the hours that we will discuss this matter will try to be patient and to say something concrete and good for the sake of agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Franz Bogovich. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u180	Thank you, President for your word. Respectable members of the government, officials, colleagues and non-colleagues, those who are gone! I already told the board yesterday that we had only one luck. That it is the end of this government's mandate, where we can essentially say that there is one red thread in agriculture. These are higher fines or higher penalties. We met with any law on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, and we all tried to be reasoned, and we finally met on one issue: higher fines, higher penalties yes or no. And here was the opposition, in particular the SDS Group, where we tried with the laws, with the amendments to this irrational, lifeless high punishment to say that too many of them were too high, and on the other hand we had a coalition that was silent, by pressure or by lifting our hands to confirm. We have made recommendations, which the coalition has rejected almost without justification. Such a decision, which states: The National Assembly has held a debate on the high penalties in agriculture for this coalition is not acceptable. We talked for four hours yesterday, and today, I think we've been talking about this for more than four hours or six hours, and you can't even make a decision like this that we've had this debate. So much for sometimes flying a ping-pong ball, who's constructive and who's unconstructive. The arguments why today's debate and recommendations are not necessary yesterday have been drawn from the various veins. One was that it was demagogy. Dear, no demagogies! Read the laws you adopt without our help, see what the penalties are, and tell the Slovenian farmer whether it is a demagogy or a cruel reality. Then it was said that we could not accept the recommendation because we could not make an expert analysis at this pre-election time. That's what one of the coalition MPs said. We are in pre-election time, professional analyses cannot be made by officials who should be officials, professional officials, whether Franc Bogovich is minister or Dejan Židan minister or someone else. Obviously, since the resignation of the Prime Minister, what Slovenian citizens, especially Slovenian farmers, do not want to talk about agriculture today, is happening. That government officials have put in line and are waiting for a new master, and by then they will be trying to do things to those bosses who are now sick, and those who are waiting for new bosses will try to make good starting positions so that they can do the best they can on this hierarchical scale when the new bosses come. It was said that this topic is irrelevant because we are already part of an election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, if all officials, especially all Members and Ministers, were to work in such a way that they would be aware that from the first day of our term to the last, we must work as if the next day of the elections were for the benefit of citizens or farmers, because this is the same thing, if we are talking about agriculture today, then it would be much easier. Here, now that I have all my mandate to warn of high penalties, we are suddenly SDS Members marked with demogogues as we go to the electoral campaign. For three years or 26 months, we went to an electoral campaign where they tried to tell us that there were too many sentences, but you didn't want to listen. You're just gonna have to eat that bitter pill and listen to us all the way today. The penalties in this mandate, mainly under the Law on Wine and the Law on Forests, that I do not go to other fields, as some have done, are not in the sense of preventive action or punishment of large thieves. Absolutely not. It's about scaring the Slovenian countryside, scaring the Slovenian farmer when Franci, Jože, John, wakes up in the morning and first thinks about what he has to do, not to earn for his bread and for his family, but what he has to do to make sure that no police officer, some inspector, comes and takes him down. Indemnified for amounts not only of his daily income but also of his annual income. However, if he mislabels the letter of wine or if he is driving the wrong one cubic of wood – I will continue to try to prove to you that the work of ministers, as well as of Minister Jew, was directed primarily at small farmers. The ministry, which has drawn up the government's opinion on today's item, has precisely written and has only given positive arguments about what I am talking about. Today I thought that there would be more words about real estate tax, which is another great punishment, where the Constitutional Court gave you a stop. And when you were talking about how it was said, some sort of piece of work, respected, if it were some kind of material, the president wouldn't have put it in a meeting of the National Assembly. If there were some kind of material, it would probably end up like your laws in constitutional courts, where everything falls, despite the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, despite the opinion of the profession, despite the opinion – although you do not consider it – the opposition as well. In short, you're scaring the farmers and you're criminalizing them. Then yesterday, he had a colleague, a coalition MP, even so brave as to say that we, the opposition, criminalize farmers. How? We are opposed to such non-life solutions as you propose in law, especially in the field of criminal policy. And then we want to criminalize the farmer? You criminalized him because every morning he wonders what he'll have to do to keep the state from punishing him through the various organs, so that he can do anything by those hooks of yours. If he misses one hook, here's what's gonna happen. I must say, as I began before, that luckily this mandate is over, because I am afraid, because there are still a number of areas where legislation should change. One example is the Law on livestock, for example, where penalties are imposed. Fortunately, it is the end of this government's mandate, because I am truly afraid that if this government were to change this law under this ministry, we would probably be talking again almost exclusively about one thing. Not about the content, but about the penal policy that you would have started to destroy in addition to the vineyards and foresters, especially the smallest ones, would have also begun to talk about the destruction of a small Slovenian farmer dealing with livestock farming, beekeepers and so on. My colleagues have already tried to tell you here for six hours now how it is in other segments, in the area of economy, banking, road safety and so on. And we have tried to prove to you that these penalties, which are in these two laws, are unreasonable and lifeless. But the easiest way is to reject recommendations or conclusions almost silently on the committee, and then you think what the opposition is saying is going to be what we think it is. I'll go to law school. I will come from the government's opinion, which I must say is of great quality, but fortunately, or unfortunately, you deny yourself many times when you say that higher penalties are no fun. That's how you write it. In the Wine Act, the amendment of the Law followed the basic principles of the Wine Act, even in the way that the lower levels of penalties for serious offences increased by 1.5 times the lower level of the 2006 fine. We're waiting for an analysis. There's no analysis. I wonder if it's the Minister's stubbornness or if some officials at the Ministry have given themselves a soul and said that we know about farmers, even if we take them all away and give them high penalties, he'll find so many potatoes or something else he'll pay a tenth or more to our country. You made your own table on page 6. The comparisons of the old, new law are prices for legal persons there, perhaps even lower penalties. And let's look at the natural persons, for that farmer who almost has no opportunity to receive large subsidies or probably, let's be honest, there's no way he knows officials in such and different positions, different services both within the ministry or different government authorities, so he can knock and say, "Let's try and do a little for me." Penalties in the old law for smaller producers, from 146 euros to a thousand 43 euros. The new law: from 650 to 6 000 EUR 500. How many times is this promotion? Six times. Medium-sized producer, from 835 to 168 euros. What do you do? From a thousand 125 to 11 thousand 250 euros. How many times? Ten-fold increase. And for large processors, we are still talking about natural persons who are not espas, before that, the penalty was €43 000 to €252 thousand. What do you do? From EUR 1 000 570 to EUR 15 000 700. 15 times the previous sentence! And now you will say that this is for the Slovenian farmer, especially for the best or the biggest one, who has in one way or another a disgrace that it is no problem for him. Go to the field and the farmers will tell you that's the problem. This was also the case with the Wine Act, I remember that session when we almost bargained at the committee, and then at the meeting of the National Assembly, in order to maybe reduce the penalties a little bit, because apparently the coalition led by the minister and the official work saw that extreme penalties really needed to be reduced and then the articles would be "the coalition has reduced the penalties" in the media. Of course, if you reduce from 15 times to 10 times, it is indeed the coalition's view that there is a decrease and, in our opinion, still an increase. Let me go on to the Forest Act. There's been a lot of talk about this today. I'll tell you what. I have to say, it's in the area where I come from, a lot of small farmers. But not only did we listen to small farmers, we were last part of a field visit to the Bled Forest Company. And I seriously asked them how they felt about the vehicles. First they started laughing when I just insisted on what they thought of them, but, Mr. Secretary with the team, I'd rather not say what kind of sentences they were flying, what they were thinking and what they had to do with this carrier, even though the carrier was not supposed to touch them as concessionaires. Because you also went around the car with concessionaires and made it for small farmers. So another attack on a small, average, I'll say, Slovenian farmer. And then when the Ministry prepares the material, it makes it easier for the soul by putting a similar law into government procedure before we put it under the former minister's term of office. It was submitted to the government by officials for government procedure. And why the procedure was concluded – because Members of the current opposition, not all of them, but I will not speak, otherwise colleagues from the SLS are not here, why the law remained in government drawers. Because we didn't agree to this kind of marriage. And the new minister, probably with the same officers, adopted him and put him in the process. You are also here, despite the fact that we have proposed the law and the abolition of the carriers, we have been questioned and moved on, but with the amendment of the law you have only slightly eased these penalties and apparently washed your soul again and said that we are working for the Slovenian farmer. Yesterday, too, the minister said several times that there had been fewer punishments under the left governments. I hope that was said in a joke, because then I could seriously say that under the left governments, apparently certain inspections work less. Two more, three more things to conclude. Yesterday and today we're hearing about one million on black-cut wood. You and the Forest Act yourself in this one-year transition period because of the adversarial recognition that traceability exists and that this traceability also follows European directives. Despite this traceability, you still say without analysis that one million have been stolen, and you probably point your finger at small farmers, because concessionaries and carriers are another, probably taboo darkness. And one more thing, when you talk about how to raise money, I'm going to go to other topics. We also have European funds in agriculture. We have a forest concession issue. We have the issue of chimney concessions. And you'll leave all this to another minister, Your Honor. I must say that, for your punishment, I would like you to have at least so long as you are in the next government, that what awaits the next coalition, whatever it may be, in 2015, will be arranged in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, that someone else will have to roll up their sleeves to help with this work. Let me finish with the carriages. You've made your own marriage so that in a quick procedure, the inspector can issue multiple sentences. Back then, I said that it was so small on the thumb, where a Frenchman as an inspector was angry at a John because I didn't know anything from the past, could easily give him a multiple in a quick procedure. And this John will not be able to do anything to convince this inspector that this is not true. Dearly respected, although you have rejected the recommendations with your left hand, I think that today's debate, whether we are in election or pre-election time, or whether the state's office can do some analysis or not, if they don't, is even more important for us politicians to speak a word about Slovenian agriculture mainly in the field of Slovenian wine-growing, Slovenian forests. And once again, the punishments are too high, let's be reasonable, human, and lower them. If not now, the minister said he can't do them now because he's just doing business, believe me, if there's another government, it's gonna roll up his sleeves in criminal policy and lower his sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u181	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u182	Thank you. I hope that the country will ever again have this shame that you will run the government, so that you will not lower the penalty as you reduced it in 2007. Since then, there have been so many punishments in the woods. I must say, the left government didn't get ahead of those penalties because you actually set them up so high. Please read how you punished a small farmer in 2007 if he left his livestock to graze in his forest. But please read carefully how you punished the little farmer at the time, if he accidentally carried the spruce as an ornament home from the woods without any proper designation. But then the SDS did not object at the time, because you probably had some arguments, not only what is usually used, it is proportionality, but efficiency and dissuasiveness. There's nothing else I can say. I'd like to say the following. The actual forest law, which should be adopted last March, should have this law adopted last March under the European Regulation. Then there was a change of government. We then continued to speak to those who control us, but are somewhere else, not in Slovenia, that this is a change of government and what else, then the opposite question of why lately. But, O.K., there was no punishment. But that law, I assume, did not go forward because your government was gone. I've never seen any sign of him standing on the government before. This doesn't look from any records. The only thing I know, however, is that the Members of our coalition were lucky or unlucky to have been members of your coalition for some time, were also involved in the January negotiations. From these conversations, I know what you agreed to at the time. The main thing you have agreed is not to introduce what would actually be completely unreasonable, i.e. a new fee for Slovenian farmers for EUR 2 million. And that's good. We have also taken this agreement into account, and we would never have proposed it. But you made a hole in another office for 2 million, because that institution then expected 2 million euros from this law. While the transporters' system went on to be what the new government had adopted, realizing that in fact we do not have time to send the law to a normal debate where the profession would face it, where NGOs would face it, and so on, because we were simply late. We were already late in March, and if you had prepared this in time, this law would probably have been significantly better than it is now. That's what I'm trying to say. There were some questions about winemaking. All I can say here is the following. You know, honourable Members and Members, that this law is not valid for a long time. Each law needs to evaluate periodically, to see whether it achieves its effects, and not only in the field of criminal policy, which needs to be less important, more in the field of some other policies, in order to then adapt. But it is not common to say that in a very fast time. What matters in this law is that this law was created because those who live on winemaking and winemaking, whether united as small farmers or small cellars or large ones, all three associations were present, asked us to do so. To help people who live from winemaking and winemaking. And that's what we did. You have also probably seen, I suppose, that all the members of this association have visited that there was general support. Whether there will be something else to be done in the future, which is likely to happen, or whether these penalties need to be changed in any direction, will change. So I think we can be united when we essentially put some other stuff aside. What is often evident is that politics is guided in a way that is essentially too burdensome for small farmers. I was trying to tell you what the height of the sentence is in the vineyard. During the 13-month period, and I think 16 or 18 days were fines of 12 thousand euros in the entire sector. At the time of the previous government, the number was also completely irrelevant. It doesn't matter if it's 10 grand or 20 grand. I want to tell you that the system of control is based on preventive action, and I think it's the same. However, it is very unfair for anyone to say, in the meantime, that the country's policy is based on trying to harm the farmer. Because in the end, the data is still important. And what you saw was presented several times today. The Agriculture and Environment Inspectorate shall be responsible for the basis of supervision and, if appropriate, punishment. It is evident here that the amount of penalties imposed has fallen. What's the reason? You have all understood that it was more jokingly said that it depends on the left, the right, the other governments, because the authorities have to act independently and then have some legislation to act on. What was also important was payments relating to the various settlement when it was necessary to pay back the money that came from the European Union. The amount of this money is clearly decreasing from year to year. It's been going on for about a year, but it's getting smaller. I think last year there were a million and a half euros, on average, a million and a half euros, but I have the opposite amount of 314 or 317 sometimes 335 million euros. I hope that this amount will be even smaller in the future. It is now several times smaller than it was at the beginning when agricultural policy began to be implemented. Here's what I want to say. Some of you will be present when we speak in an hour and 15 minutes, an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture begins in 15 minutes when we discuss what the new agricultural policy will look like. There we will also try to explain where the range of any government, where there is a range of any policy, what is what is left over throughout the European Union and is allowed to happen only as a market, as a market-based production activity, and the country does not have access there. I personally think that so far agricultural policy has been implemented in Slovenia. It would be wrong to say that it was ideal, ideal things are not, there is always something to improve, to change, and I understand this debate in this direction too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u183	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. And get ready, Mr. Robert Croat. Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. Apparently sometimes it's not enough to tell you things. Sometimes they also need to be drawn or painted. When we talk about the amount of fines and penalties, honourable colleagues, pressure on high penalties was made in 2008 by a amendment to the Act on Offences and the analysis is a vote of 6. 2. 2008 Such a law has also been pressured by some among you or among us who are the loudest today. This graph shows the increase that was made at the time. This is said only by how much fines have been raised for legal persons, for large, small companies and for individuals. And this law, as I have already pointed out in the position of the Group of Members today, is essentially a criterion, a framework for all individual laws when we determine the amount of penalties and fines. Much, too much has been said for my terms in this mandate on so-called carriers. 29. 1. In 2013, when coalition coordination took place on this draft law, the Civil Gazette was no longer present, but the mailing list was not updated, so we were still receiving e-mails on this topic. That's why I'm going to end up on this subject, and I'm not going to continue, but I'm going to ask that we don't get carried away. The fact is that the traceability of wood has required Europe from us, and this law should possibly go a little bit further, regardless of who the agricultural minister would be. The participation or the euro for the section was also envisaged. Perhaps some article would be different if that government continued to work or some third or technical one, but the fact is that the law should be, because let's be honest and say that what we accept in this national assembly is already prescribed in 60% of Europe. Of course, as I said before, I will not repeat myself, but we too often follow this procedure too much or how this legislation should be implemented in the Slovenian legal order. Carriers are not valid and the fines cannot be imposed on carriers and on this traceability of wood at the moment. A year from now, when they are established in the Slovenian legal order, we will see if any new laws are needed or will be given to those who will have this opportunity and responsibility. However, as far as the globe is concerned, I believe we are still complicated in all legislation that the problem is in implementation, but not always in amending legislation. I'd only have three rules here. First, for an offence that is only of a formal nature, we should give warnings. In the event of a benefit or a specific injury, that penalty should in essence reflect the benefit obtained. I want common sense when it comes to pronunciation and that fines are regulated, not suppressed. Now I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u185	Thank you, too. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Aljoša Jerič. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected coalition, a respected minister, you can still work hard and convince the Slovenian public that the penalties you have imposed in this term are fines, okay, Slovenian farmers tell you that this is not okay. And it's not okay. Let's make a deal – have you raised your sentences in the areas we discussed today in this mandate, or have you not? You are. The sentences are higher than they used to be. That's what we're talking about today and nothing else. The fact is that the penalties in agriculture are disproportionate to the severity of the offence. In these areas, in particular, the wine law, the forest law, nature conservation and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in all the laws you have adopted in this mandate, we have opposed the regulation of penalties, the height of penalties, the height of fines. We've always been opposed. But unfortunately, we've always been voted on by the coalition. What I said at the outset is that this mandate is governed by rural policy, which I still stand for. And convince me that's not the case. I don't know if anyone can convince me. That's a fact. That's what you see at every step of the way. There's been a lot of talk today about the forest law, and I'm going to touch this law. You remember the first discussion of the law that you, this government and this coalition, brought to the National Assembly. Leave the SDS here. The SDS has nothing to do with this bill. You are responsible, Mr. Minister of the Jews, you are responsible, you have brought this law into the National Assembly. But this coalition confirmed it. The first variant, which was mocked by all stakeholders involved in this forest chain. Everyone laughed. You were cheated on a forest road. And that's what you've come to realize is true. But, you know, maybe you were a little late. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a new law where we did not introduce carriers anymore, but a transport charter where the buyer and seller would agree on a forest route, sign the data and the traceability is ensured. I'm sure it's secure. Why do I hope to say that? Because you have made copies of the pasta of this law into a transitional provision of the Law on Forests, where you have now frozen carriers and these penalties for one year. And since we are talking about penalties, I will tell you that you have also learned that the penalties are too high and have been reduced by the amendment of the law you brought to Parliament the second time. But these punishments are still huge. You are proud of what you have done in agriculture and forestry as well as in these matters. I'm only going to give you one warning on the pharynx. Nine million cubic feet of wood that was destroyed. Of that, 3 million Iglavs. You set the deadline of 15. 5th for the recovery of pinheads. You have now come to the conclusion that this will not be done, so someone must bear responsibility. Someone's got to, and they're gonna have to. Now you've extended that deadline. Look, by 10. 5. 23% of people in Slovenia are saved, of which 26% are in private forests and only 14% are in state forests. Do you have any idea what a small percentage of cured wood is? What does that mean? This means that there is a massive delay in the recovery of the iguanas. What's the threat? There's secondary damage to the basements. Who will be responsible for so many and so many millions of cubits that will remain in the woods? But the tentacles will move forward, not only will they stay there on a wood lying on the ground, they will go into a healthy wood. Who's responsible for this? Is the Slovenian Democratic Party coming back? It is all the responsibility of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this Parliament and in this mandate. Everything happened in the time of Janša's government, these and those former ones. Let us be aware that you are in power at this time and that the coalition supports these things, which is brought by this government, in which Minister Židan is Minister of Agriculture and the Environment. And you support it. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, as I see now, simply did not have the planned plan for action on the side of the acorn. She didn't have it. The Minister of Agriculture from Austria visited immediately after this natural disaster. He offered to help. The Minister of the Jews rejected her. If that's not true, then deny the work, the diary, Channel A, Pop TV. That's what got me these opinions. You've announced 100 million euros of money from the EIB. How much did we get? Nothing. You have announced the establishment of a state-owned timber purchase company. Where is he? You have not announced the establishment of a company that would manage them after the end of the concessions instead of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. Where is he? It's nothing. One great thanks to you today was how well you have done and how the coalition has supported the very good solutions, but everything has already fallen on this occasion. Nothing happened. More than 20% of the forests have been rehabilitated. You've set a time limit for the sabers to be repaired. But they didn't. They're not. I don't know how you're gonna get out of this mess, which is where this moment is, the ministry or this government or this coalition or anyone. We do not have this responsibility right now to be responsible for what is happening in Slovenian forests. Look, I'm gonna say it again. Self-pity is just too small. This must also be felt by Slovenian farmers. And if you ask Slovenian farmers at this moment whether agricultural policy is right for small farmers at this time or whether agricultural policy is made for the lobby, for large farmers, they will tell you very clearly. The policy pursued in this mandate was written for large farmers. And this, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is a mistake. If we want to be self-sustaining, we need to start changing things at the base. It is necessary to allocate funds in a different way. So again. We talk about penalties and penalties are disproportionate in terms of the offence or the gravity of the offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u187	Thank you, too. However, given that some warnings are coming from the hall, it is important to note that the debate today was quite broad, so that I think we would have more difficulties in this if. would limit the debate. We will continue to listen to Mr Zvonk Lah, who has a word, and then he can have a word with the Government. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently it's on the other side of the darkness, as we've heard. Mr Minister, I would like to refer to that part of your debate when you said that you had listened to those vine growers living out of it when amending the Wine Act. There are 12,000 vineyards in Dolenjska. Those who live on it are a few ten. Not anymore. Those who process less than 10% of all vineyards, the ones you listened to. Family winegrowers, major growers. No one asked the representatives of those small ones, because on average in Slovenia, one winegrower processes just over 20 acres of vineyards and so much and so much of all vineyards in Slovenia. You let them go. In general, we also have an average farm in agriculture, 6.5 hectares of agricultural land, and, of course, this farm cannot survive on its own. However, we have many large farms that also cultivate land for rent, mostly for rent, because we know what is the own composition of agricultural holdings in Slovenia that went into investment, they have made business plans, they have acquired European funds, and now they have to achieve the goal. And because they were only large eyes, it is now difficult to achieve these production goals because they have too little soil, too little feed, and are in squalor. The same is true of the larger vineyards. Of course, the government has helped them, and small vineyards need to be intimidated so that they can't sell, they need to bottle, they need to increase their fines, and they need to be intimidated if they do something in black and sell larger grapes, which are produced on these cliffs after 30 cents of kilograms, on their knees to become winemakers. This is your solution. That's why you didn't call these representatives of the small winegrowers. You said earlier that these representatives were in all the parliamentary groups. Yeah, in position, we can't. This is the policy you are leading – a policy of intimidation, a policy of taxation. We Members were on the ground when we were expected by representatives of large farmers, representatives of agri-agricultural institutions, advisory services, and they attacked us with what we can think of, and they said they had over 50 farmers in one institution and over 700 registered complementary activities by those small farmers who had to grow something to survive. But nobody said anything about what they did to those little farmers. No, no, no. All you have to do is wait for them like hawks to do something wrong, punish them and turn them away from doing something and leaving the earth bigger. That seems to be the goal. I've told you before, these farmers, whether they're farmers or beef farmers, are only processing the land that big machines can handle. Those little ones on steep slopes, on narrow plots, and those not accessible to the owner. And it's growing. The operator of agricultural activities is on average over 60 years old. These are pensioners, and we leave them to the recovery of agricultural land. In Europe, however, a small farmer has the status of one who has come more to the market than he spends himself. This is the definition of a small farmer in Europe. This was explained to us by those from Europe. In Romania, the average farmer has 1.9 cows, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Mr Minister, you are misguided by this policy and such a policy of punishment is not going anywhere. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u189	Thank you. He can have the word at this point after the review. Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking you. It's what I said days ago. Whenever there's a chance of talking about agriculture, that's a good thing. And today we have taken this opportunity, at times in an unusual way, but I believe that in the heart only we all understand that we urgently need a Slovenian farmer and that this Slovenian farmer is, of course, a farmer and a farmer, that they are the foundation of our society. Indeed, what has been said and said in the end, in many ways, agricultural policy has been the most European policy for 50 years. If you remember why European agricultural policy was created. Food was too little, it was too expensive, and it sucked, and at this point almost 40% of the European agricultural budget is going on. This, in practice in Slovenia, means that in agriculture, due to such or other measures, there are basically two, we are earmarking for agriculture and forestry, the annual diet of 300 to 350 million euros, which in my view is very useful use of money, and I would like the rest of the money to be used equally in Slovenia. But it is true that not everything is the same in Europe. What you, Mr Lah, have asked what the definition of a small farmer is, you know that in Europe there is no definition of what a family farm is. This year is a year of family farms, not a European one, but a global one and Europe has no single definition of what a family farm is. In Slovenia we then make some simplification and when we say what a family farm is, we say that a family farm is every farm that has no form of legal personality, but is essentially physical. So the farm is a farm where farmers grow. Farms are different. It holds the information that it is a relatively small Slovenian farm, that is 6.5 hectares. It is true that there are even smaller ones, but it is true that this European average, with which our farmer can compete, is almost three times larger. If you look at some countries, say Germany, they're terribly unhappy in Bavaria because they have an average of 28 hectares. Well, I'm saying it a little bit. I think it's around here somewhere. If you look at Luxembourg, they have an average of 50 hectares, so Slovenian agricultural policy is adjusted. This Slovenian agricultural policy is more social than many European agricultural policies, and it also puts more emphasis on environmental objectives. And that's because of the characteristics of our country and I think it's the right thing to do. For this reason, we already have 17 to 18% of the farms that survive and have some future, which is also beautiful, with complementary activities. Here we must say and be honest that a lot of farms have complementary activities because they have quality agricultural advisers working in an agri-forestry institution. Unlike many, I appreciate the work of these agricultural advisers. Sometimes I wish we were more in the field and had less paper work. It is also true that, in essence, agricultural European policy is known to be a lot of paper. I think I have already explained the following to you as Members. The new agricultural policy, which will now begin, was also aimed at deadministering. It is true that we have achieved this goal in Slovenia somewhere between 26,000 and 28 000 farms. That's a lot if we think they're going to run for direct payments because they're going to be able to go to a small farm. It'll be easier there, once something for seven years and have peace. While the remaining agricultural policy was not calculated by us, but calculated by the Germans who like to count, it is even more difficult for 15% administratively. This is a problem of agricultural policy. It is so administratively difficult that not only farmers and farmers have difficulties implementing it, but also countries have difficulties implementing it. If you look at these adjustments that Slovenia has paid and some are probably still following us, because these corrections were largely not because someone was serving at the expense of European money, but because they were difficult to implement agricultural policy and the country understood a lot of things. And these corrections are in Slovenia. By this point, I think there were 17, 18 million of them. These corrections are always delayed at least normally by EUR 5 million. If I remember correctly when I became Minister, we received quite a correction, I think 8 million euros. The attack immediately came from your side, if you look at the left minister, but the sentence of 8 million will come. When I explained that this was a penalty for some activity in 2006 and 2007, this attack disappeared immediately. A gland. That is true, honourable Member Robi Horvat, there has never been such a crisis in Slovenian forests. If we add back icicles, we don't get to the extent of the icicle we have now. That is also why you have changed some laws, because some of them have simply not been mentioned in the laws as well. That's the first fact. The second fact is that when the acorn appeared, the state reacted. The first thing we've done is what every normal person does. He immediately consults with countries that have had major problems in the past. We've been consulting some people. In particular, it was important to make a dedication with France. France also had bigger phalanges, Germany had more phalanges, and we are still exchanging a lot of information with them. By the way, you may be interested, I am pleased to go with President Borut Pahor in a good month to Bavaria, where we will also organise a business conference, because we also want to solve some problems through this. Austria has offered us some services. We've also accepted a lot of them, that's what we have to say. But I have noticed, ladies and gentlemen of respect, on this right hand side, that you like to refer to newspaper articles very much and withdraw when it is necessary to refer to the Official Gazette. That's your problem again, not mine. But what I want to say is this. When such a very big crisis occurs, it is, of course, utopian to think that the crisis will disappear within six months. Nowhere, but really nowhere in comparable countries, where they were better prepared than us, because they had a state-owned company that managed the state forest and could have helped private forests intervention during the crisis, we do not have that. I don't know why you changed that 20 years ago or even back in fact that we don't have it in Slovenia. I don't know, I wasn't in politics at the time, I was living somewhere else, I was dealing with cows and some other animal species, and I wasn't in politics. But we, unlike comparable countries – I think you, honourable Member, said that I was some utopian socialist, I remember well, one question was, you said I was a utopian socialist. Utopian socialism, because it sounds very good, I must say that I am happy to go this way, but this is the direction that is typical of Austria, Finland, German federal countries, Switzerland, and this direction has proved useful to them. We actually wanted because the coalition's decision is clear – the coalition signed a coalition contract where it gave up concessions in the future. But in the future, we will manage state forests with a state-owned company. In fact, we wanted to establish this state-owned company very quickly. This is a state-owned company that manages state forests and would also be able to help private owners in some way. We failed, and the reasons were made public, and I will not talk about them. The fact is that this law has now concluded a public hearing or is here somewhere, waiting for a future government. If it is ours, the law will go absolutely further because it is a modern management approach with the most important natural resource. As far as I know, if your government will go further, maybe in a slightly different form, but if this one is here, he won't go any further. But okay, that's just the risk we have to take. As to why the official institution announced the date of 15 May. Because he has to. That's the law. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that I will in fact propose that you review the rehabilitation programme which the Institute for Forests has made very quality. It says what Slovenian operational capabilities are in various fields. It also makes it very clear that if we are very good, very good, if we help each other, but not fight as far as silkworms are concerned, we will remove them from the forests by the middle of 2015. As far as the rest of the damaged wood is concerned, plus two years, in 2017. You'll say, yes, Minister, well, these are long arms. Look, whoever you talk to, whether in Germany or in France, see what problems they still have after 10 years in France or Austria. Sanitation can't be faster. I don't have time to keep talking about recovery. During today's conversation, there was a lot of, I think, Slovenian political folklore, and that is also possible. We were talking about farm tickets. I believe that all of us who have listened in good faith have found that the penalties imposed in agriculture are small and fall; I think we have found that. We talked a lot about the Forest Act. I have pointed out what you have accepted in 2007 and what you have demonstrated in another coalition. You warned what the Government then gave, which is also entirely justified. In the meantime, it must be said that we had to move forward, because we had missed our deadlines, the law should be adopted in March. But suma sumarum The Forest Act is not harmful for a Slovenian farmer. And if we look at it without political hair, we'll figure it out. However, we have a different approach to the Wine Act. At state level, we are talking to those who represent the sector at state level. Simply, but not because they don't want to, because people are wrong, people are fine, but now imagine that the ministry is negotiating with the Dolenjska vineyards, with the vineyards of Styria, Koroška, Prekmurje and so on, while they do not always have the same views, an agreement is impossible to reach. It is therefore the view of the Ministry that when we talk about sectors, we talk to those who have representatives at state level. Those whom we have observed – now, if we have missed someone, I apologize here before you, but those who are the usual representatives of the vineyards and the winegrowers at the level of the country, they were with us. They asked for help, and now you're attacking. They asked for help because they live off the vines and wineries, and you're attacking it now. You probably have every right to do that, but I don't think that's right. People who live off something have the right to be helped by the state. You also wanted to talk about the Nature Conservation Act. It's a law that doesn't really exist. I guess we all know well enough to count that you really don't have a chance to accept this. But if it were a real possibility, it would be enough time to talk about it, to see if there are any mistakes, and to correct them. I don't know if you've noticed, maybe those Members who don't go to the Committee on Agriculture don't see it, but on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment there are a few moments where we decide by consensus on what. Maybe someone would check it out after he went to the polls. I must say, when I, as an opposition Member, had the opportunity to be chairman of this committee, I made a great deal of effort at the time to make a deal, to find out what the common interest is. I think that this effort is also present in this committee president's mandate, and this is the only right direction. But since I still have some time at my disposal, I'd like to say it. As we observe agriculture, you know that 65% of the European acquis is agriculture and the environment. Our ministry is terribly burdened. It is a terrible burden, and it is true that we must negotiate in the European Union if we are to have a quality agricultural policy at home. It is also true that we have achieved relatively good success in the negotiations between 2014 and 2020 within the hubs set up. This is not the credit of Minister of the Jews, Minister Bokovic, Minister of Jarc. This is thanks to all of us who have negotiated with them together. The Minister, whoever he was, is a non-governmental organisation, whoever represented them, and I must say so, as well as the European Members, and whatever the parties are, they have been involved in this. We kept them informed, and the spoils are good. The amount of money available to Slovenian farmers is quite high. It's really big. That's the first fact. Another fact I have to say. If you look at the laws, because in general you would want to go everywhere in my system to change the laws just like that to go about deregulation. You've seen that we've started in the field of the environment. The Water Act, if well informed, does not have any amendments, will significantly improve the situation by reducing the number of water procedures. The Nature Conservation Act, which has also been the subject of discussion today, is also the main task of this law to reduce the number of administrative procedures. It is true, however, that we have included in this law, at the initiative of some coalition parties, also how to regulate the prohibition of motor vehicles in the natural environment. Of course, the environment is not forest roads, the natural environment is not some other road. That's basically what every owner protects. And now I see we've been attacked at this point, and then we'll talk about it if there's any chance. But basically the Nature Conservation Act goes into deregulation. And I believe that other laws, whoever the minister is, will have to go into the system of deregulation in the area of agriculture and the environment. Thank you once again for the opportunity to debate and I look forward to the debate in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u191	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Jože Tanko, the proposaler, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. With this request for an extraordinary meeting, we have opened up some areas in the field of agriculture or the environment which, in our view, are not adequately regulated in the part where certain offences or irregularities are penalised. It is difficult for us today to talk about measures, penalties, fines, such as the Wine Act, small producers for some proportionality or some fairness, if the penalty is practically equal to the value of annual production in this small producer. It is difficult for us to say that the carrier, the document required under the Forest Act, is suspended, but there is a provision in the law, such a document, its punishment is so high that it can practically mean the collapse of the company for someone. Now that certain penalties are not imposed at the prescribed level and that the average sentences imposed are lower than the minimum penalties prescribed for certain things in certain cases, what the Minister or Government has proposed is in fact a sort of phenomenon and a problem. I think that this debate, which has been carried out, although it has in some way been going on in a normal, conflict-like way, will certainly serve something in the future or in this mandate or as long as this government is or will be in the new mandate. It has been correctly pointed out that penalties for certain agricultural matters are substantially excessive, disproportionate, non-life-related and probably cannot be prescribed because they constitute intimidation in this area. Look, I made a case for the carrier. We have the Road Traffic Rules Act, which says what the traffic operator must have. He must also have a cargo document among them. If he doesn't have this document, if he's stopped by the police, it's $40. This is under the applicable road traffic rules law. At the second stage, we have a law on forests that prescribes several times more penalties, some 10 times, 100 times, 1,000 times higher penalties in some cases, such as what is prescribed for participants in transport. What's the difference between a document called a cargo document? We've warned about these things. I think that the warning is correct and these matters need to be settled further. The Nature Conservation Act, lighter offenses, you have a provision in Article 161, and there is a fine of EUR 5 to 10 000 for easier infringements for a legal person in case he drives, stops or parks a motor vehicle in the natural environment and the vehicle does not stand or is not parked in a five-metre belt outside the vehicle. It's a lighter offense. The penalty is between EUR 5 and 10 thousand. An individual may also be punished under this Article, ranging from 150 to 500 euros. However, this law also has a further 161.b. article which states that for offences referred to in Articles 160, 160a and 161, a foreign sanction may also be imposed for the taking away of items used for an offence or intended for an offence or committed by an offence. It's not that simple anymore. I think it is only commendable that in this country someone who has deepened in these matters has pointed to them, and on this basis probably any wise government would have drawn a conclusion and at least made an effort to follow this matter. The punishments are unusually high. Even if we compare transport of wood ranges without a carrier or inadequate transport of dangerous substances, the penalties are three, four, five times higher, two and a half times lower limit. In this process, when we address this particularly sensitive area of agriculture, especially where the matter is dispersed, this is particularly sensitive because things are already falling down naturally, in addition to the penalty, and I think, Mr Minister, that we should actually be grateful that we have alerted the government, the coalition, to these problems. We did not, in your mandate, point out these problems for the first time. We already have them under the Law on Forests, the Law on Wine has raised a question, but the response is very bad. Both the ministries and the coalitions. So I expect that this area, which is abnormal, [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u193	Thank you. With this, I find that all the debaters you wanted got the floor. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's a matter of interest. Allow me to warn both the Government and the proposer on this occasion that you can apply at this stage if you want to discuss in this next round. If you don't sign up now, then I won't be able to give you my word. But the order will be followed. The government's checking in. The proposer, too. However, the order will be such that it will conclude with the word of the Government and then the last word of the proposer. At this point, I invite you to report for discussion. Three of them have been reported. The debate will take five minutes. The word will then be given by the Government and the proposer. First of all, he has the word Mr Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would only warn once again that today the meeting went this way, as if our farmers were the biggest violators. Once again, our farmers and vineyards are honest people, working people, and they are not interested in these penalties. Once again, I ask you not to attack again, because, as the Minister has said, these penalties have already been prepared. This minister is not to blame, and I hope that this will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u195	Thank you, too. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers! I apologize, I do not wish to delay this debate, but in the office I listened to the debate and also the last speech by the Minister of Mag. Diana jeedan. Mr Minister, if I have heard correctly, you have said that the EU does not have the definition of a family farm. And that really pissed me off. I read materials for the period 2014-2020, where it says that family agriculture is the dominant business model in European agriculture. And what made me even more upset is that the electoral programmes, even the political programme of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, are based on family farms. And now I don't know what to do. Should I change the program because of this statement? I would really like to ask you in a very kind way where the truth is now. Are these documents, which I read, wrong or still valid, which is what we Christian Democrats believe, the policy of developing Slovenian agriculture, which was drawn up by Professor Jože Osterc, whom I also know that you highly appreciate? In 1990, he wrote in the programme that for Slovenia, it is only on family farms that are based on agriculture. We write this in the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats today. This cannot only be large, on industrial technologies based on monocultures and conventional farms, because they cannot perform the necessary collateral tasks that Slovenian agriculture must carry out when producing. In the last 15, 18, perhaps 20 years, we have probably supported better 18 years in particular such farms, which contributed to the decline in the rate of self-sustainment. We need to change that. There are increasing signs that the importance of small farms is also being recognised in the EU, so they will be given greater attention in the coming years. This shows that it will be easier to correct our mistakes at home in Slovenia, which we have made in recent years, if we have the will to do so, also political will. However, the revised agricultural policy will not succeed unless we have a permanent and decisive approach to raising awareness of the universal importance of agriculture, agriculture, which is of course also a Slovenian word. We need to understand this agriculture, as I have already mentioned, is extremely important for our sovereignty, preservation of the cultural landscape and Slovenian identity. These efforts must also become a permanent component of education programmes in schools at all levels and in all directions. How wide this area of agriculture is, before that, we have even talked about culture, we are already in the field of education, education, education and so on. So, Mr. Secretary, you're covering an extremely demanding area. However, I would like to clarify how it is now with family farms and with the European Union's agricultural programme, in particular for the period 2014-2020, also through the optics of structural and cohesion policy, because it is essentially conceptual issues. We need to get clear answers at this meeting. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u197	Thank you. There's a minister's word. Here you go, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u198	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. We in Slovenia simply define a family farm. For us, the family farm is more or less every farm, but we exclude businesses, if something like craftsmanship is formed. Everything else we consider to be family farms. We don't have any more precise definitions. What I wanted to say is, where is the problem at this point at European level when we are talking about family farms? Every country understands that somehow. I remember when we actually started last year's preparation for this year, I think we were in Hungary, we had basically a conference on family farms, and then, in fact, different countries tried to define what their family farm was. At European Union level, while we have a single agricultural policy, we do not have a uniform definition of what a family farm is. At the same time, I must say that we are all aware, and Slovenia is also aware that generally it is the true foundation of Slovenian agriculture that is the family farms. Not only because we have a tradition here, but not only because they produce food, historically the family farms are the ones that survive, they have good times that are also in agriculture, but also when they are difficult times, family farms do not withdraw from agriculture, while other forms of organisation in agriculture can also withdraw from agriculture. I think it is right that Slovenian agricultural policy is based on family farms as well. What is further important, however, is the new direction of the European Union in the field of agriculture. This is no longer just intensive farming or that we want to have as much agricultural production as possible. Clearly, we in Slovenia need more food security. Now we have somewhere, if we sum up everything that we shouldn't even add up, 75 percent, a little bit of sloping down, because 10% is too small, and with this little food security, we need to be aware that family farms are the ones that are essentially farming where it's harder to grow. Many people think about agriculture like this, we need large areas, then large machines, and then what start to look like Slovenian areas You know, in Slovenia we have 75% of the areas where it is harder to grow, so-called OMD. [[..]] That is why the rural development programme is disproportionately large in Slovenia, because we urgently need it. If we don't have this, essentially our agriculture, because 75% of them live on OMD, can't survive. And the basics of farming are generally family farms. What is essentially what basically family farms will now be available? The agricultural policy itself will continue to be driven by incentives. The direct payments we are observing will be from € 134 million to € 139 million per year and will be made up of two new parts. The first part is essentially the right direct payment and then the green supplement. 30 % of direct payment means a green supplement, which is mandatory. The farm can't choose whether it will work greener or get more money, or whether it works the way it used to, but it won't. The farm must operate greener anywhere in the European Union. That's three conditions. Slovenian farms are fortunate because of their tradition already at the moment mostly meet., But it is also an important function, it is an environmental function. The third function, which is increasingly important in agriculture, is also social. Why? A farmer who can't live with a farm in these times has nowhere to go. This does not apply only to Slovenia, but to a number of European countries, so we are introducing some measures that in fact allow for some kind of social shock absorber. Payments are also as they are, and these payments will remain largely until 2020. But what is possible is that I say this because I still have a minute of time, and there are two new measures that Slovenia has been fighting for, in particular. The first measure is a severe administrative burden for small farms. This will benefit 26 to 28 thousand farms, remain in the payment system and work for the country will be done once every 6 to 7 years. In fact, the second focus is more support for young farmers. Slovenia was the one who stood up for this, Slovenia was also the one who achieved that it was a binding measure. Of course, we want to essentially young farmers, when they start farming, and also have some security. And this security is that they have 25% more money at their disposal, no matter how much money they have per hectare. If they are young farmers, they have plus 25%, then they get essentially one-off aid, which on average amounts to around €23,000, thereby making some of their ideas, investments, whatever they want, and making their plans easier to come to fruition and then [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to finish. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Unfortunately, Mr Horvat, there is no replica, there is no possibility of discussion, so we can only listen to the proposaler. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Let's get back to the agenda. You will have this after the follow-up session on family policy in the field of agriculture and you will be able to be there. As far as criminal policy is concerned in this country, you all make excuses, including the government, including the minister, to entangle in the Offences Act. However, as regards the interpretation of this criminal policy in individual sectoral laws, there are in fact large differences. We have, say, defined easier offences in the Nature Conservation Act. I have previously said one case where the penalty for a lighter offence is set at EUR 50 000 and as a by-product of the seizure of a vehicle. Then I believe that you do not have a transport document where, in my opinion, the carrier is a lighter offence, which is defined in one law by a penalty of 40 euros, and in the Forest Act of 2 000 500 to 50 000 euros for legal persons, for those other slightly different, but extremely high. Something like my easier offense is the inappropriate mark of the product, such as wine, must, or non-declaration. And that is why an enormously high penalty is for both the large and the small producer, because the penalty that can be imposed on him is the same as the annual production of the crop if it is a small winegrower. On the other hand, we have on the same basis the Tax Procedure Act, which also has defined particularly serious tax offences, where tax evasion is involved. And there is the largest possible penalty of EUR 50 000, Article 398, of the Tax Procedure Act is this. The question now arises whether these errors, these easier violations of agriculture and the environment, are equivalent to those of the worst tax evasions imposed. The penalties are equally high by stipulating in the agricultural and environmental fields that a penalty may be increased several times in these rapid procedures, while in the Tax Procedure Act there is a criminal cap. The maximum penalty, regardless of the amount of tax evasion, whether it is 3 million or it is 5 million or it is 10 million euros, is 50,000 euros. It's not possible to impose a higher sentence. When you all refer to the original law on offences, it is clear from this debate, which has been here, also by the Government, that the Minister is more than obvious that not everyone understands this parental law. In the area of tax evasion, the most serious tax offences are covered by a cap equal to EUR 50 000, while in the area of agriculture, the same high penalty is imposed as regards the indication of the crop, as regards the use of the transport document. If you do not believe me, you can verify by the laws I have listed, which in fact means that the criminal policy in agriculture is disproportionate to the offence committed, disproportionate to the value of the crop or the goods carried. And it's a particularly big problem for small farmers, small vineyards and so on. In addition, laws relating to agriculture impose many other abnormal restrictions, such as the fact that only 6 or 8 cubic cubic metres of forest range can be brought for your own use. This is an abnormal limit for someone who can use 30 or 40 or 50 cubic metres for their own use and will drive 8 cubic metres. The policy implemented in this mandate in the area of agriculture and in the field of the punishment of individual offences in agriculture, as well as in the field of the environment, falls under the same heading, is disproportionate to the offence committed, the penalties are enormous for substantial misdemeanours, the penalties are higher than for the worst criminals in the banking system or especially severe tax evasion. I think that in this area there is a need to read some law that regulates the area roofically, and then also to assess what is a lighter or more serious offence, and then to prescribe appropriate penalties.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u201	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to inform you that I am adjourning the 64th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of the State to hold the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission for the preparation of item 2.b of the agenda. The meeting of the Commission will be held in a large salon at 7.50 p.m. The meeting of the National Assembly will continue in an hour, which is at 8:50. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-14-SDZ6-Izredna-64.ana.u202	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 64th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. We are moving on to the second item of the agenda, this is on the Mandate-Voluntary matters. Under the point of view, the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Peter Wilfan’s term of office ends today, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the Member should be transferred to Alenko Lampe. The findings of the National Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. I ask if the rapporteur wishes to present a report to the Commission? No, no, no. I'm asking if the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word. Not at all. I note that we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I ask if any of the Members and Members want a word. Not at all. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the vote and please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are voting on the following proposal for a decision: 9. 1975, resident of Gregorčičeva 26, Maribor. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Alenko Lampe to join us and occupy her post. Welcome aboard. Allow me to continue the meeting and we will welcome you further. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good night.
