ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Andreja Potočnik from 11.45 to 3.30 p.m., Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Dr. Franc Trček until 11 a.m., Dr. László Göncz, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 15 to 17 p.m., Iva Dimic from 14 p.m., Jožef Horvat from 15.30 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 15. At the time of the day, this is to the defence of the proposal for a recommendation in relation to the status in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much. The topic ahead of us today is certainly very important – ensuring human rights and freedoms in judicial proceedings. The Committee on Justice considered this topic 7. 11. 2014, this is actually a symbolic date, which was the day of justice introduced in 2007 by Dr. Lovro Šturm in memory of events from 96 years ago, when the first judgment in Slovenian language was made in the Slovenian area. Therefore, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, I congratulated all Slovenian judges who do not violate human rights in their proceedings. At the same time, I recommended to all those judges who do so, namely, who violate human rights, that they better find another job. And I think that's the right thing to do. You have received the recommendation, you have received the text, you have also received the proposal of the conclusions, so I do not have any choice but to repeat the things that are written in the text. However, I am so prepared that I probably won't be able to tell everything in the time available to me, so actually my performance will be in two parts, one for this speaker and the other for the views of the members of the bench. I split my performance into six parts. In fact, first of all, I want to say something general about justice. I would like to present and quote below the criticisms of the institutions of the European Union that are at the expense of our justice, the criticisms of international institutions, the criticisms of foreign experts, the criticisms of domestic experts and, last but not least, the criticisms of the judges themselves. If I stop in general, I should start right at the beginning, because today there is likely to be a lot of debate on how to bring the issue of justice to the plenary session of the National Assembly for a single reason. Many can talk about solving a soldier and a similar case, so at the start of this case I should reject it, for a fundamental reason, since the SDS has been permanently opening up the issue of justice since 1994 and has consistently drawn attention to the situation in this area. So the current events surrounding the party president have nothing to do with this. In fact, it is so much better for me to be able to quote many things concerning all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or the affected citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have been violated by human rights in judicial proceedings, and I will not have to mention any current events, so I will not mention the current matters around the party president at all. It is generally known to all that the judiciary is one of the branches of power, that the independent branch of power is the foundation of statehood and that the issue of a permanent mandate, as some want to show, is not on the agenda and has never been on the agenda. However, we have made it very clear that the judiciary did not carry out the legal duties of 1994 and that this should be done. That's why we stood up, and still, for the so-called longer trial period of the type of university, say, what an extraordinary or regular professor -- who you are, you know what I'm talking about. Of course, there was a great question in this hall in 2009 whether we should talk about justice or not. The former interior minister asked me to resign because I was critical of justice, and so on. Today it's quite different. The European Court of Human Rights has spoken on a concrete case, including whether justice is allowed to be criticised. And in the Erdoggan case against Turkey, it was stated: "Members of the courts acting in their official role as judges must expect that broad borders are subject to acceptable criticism within these borders, as is usually the case with the ordinary states." As in politics, so is the case with judges, perhaps slightly less as far as these boundaries are concerned. In short, it said that the courts were allowed to criticize. Furthermore, the syntagma, 'the decision-making of the courts must not be criticized or publicly opposed, because they are independent and autonomous, does not mean anything but a democratic deficit in the direction of the public authorities on human rights and fundamental freedoms. Such an arrangement is the basic element and common denominator of all totalitarianism: Nazism, fascism and communism, and all their executions, which have been specifically used by the national authorities to preserve power and account with political opponents, of course on behalf of the people." The quote is finished. In Slovenia, of course, there is a question, many talk about lustration in justice, judges themselves say that the only ones who have experienced it are referring to Article 8 of the 1994 Law on Courts, when all those who have violated human rights in the past system should be excluded, and of course they are not. The Minister here, in the National Assembly, spoke for the last time even of the fact that it was Parliament's fault and not just the judiciary. Such a thesis is not acceptable to me for a fundamental reason, because Parliament does not have the data available to the judiciary, and it is the judiciary that has to submit all the documents on the individual candidate for a judge, and it is not the President of the National Assembly or the National Assembly who will examine it, but it is the judiciary that has to submit the case. But there was a real lustration in the judiciary, for example, in the German Democratic Republic. In Berlin, 50% of judges lost their mandate and 85% remained in the eastern part of Germany alone. In practice, the majority also implemented the recommendations of Council of Europe Resolution 1096, which recommended lustration as an administrative measure to the transition countries. Today, talking about lustration in justice is, in some ways, almost impossible, given the situation we are in. The judiciary is a majority, so the lustration in Slovenia has not been experienced, but the judiciary is, according to many distinguished experts, including judges, communist today and protects its interests, the interests of the left political options. Explanation of these words below. Nevertheless, history repeats itself in some areas. See, the Weimar Republic did not replace the judges when it was created, despite the fact that all the judges were in favour of the old regime, it was one of the fundamental and fundamental errors of this republic. The same judges were still on trial, extremely and for the benefit of the right - handed men at the time, and to the great harm of the political left. When evidence was presented to the judges that Hitler's Nazis were to burn Reichstag, the judges wrote: "Strankina", I add, that is, Hitler's Nazi "high ethical principles exclude any possibility of the Nazis doing so". It is said that despite the evidence, they made it clear that it is not possible for the Nazis to do so because the party has high ethical principles, and also their leader Hitler. However we compare this sentence with the situation in our judiciary, I have to stop in 2010 at the general meeting of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Judges. They had evidence on the table that the candidate for President Branko Masles had verified the murders at the border. This was witnessed by his colleague, Judge Jan Zobs, then by some others, and last week a doctor came forward. What did our judges write down? The candidate, Mr Maslesha, has duly and convincingly denied the allegations that he was involved in the verification of the killings. So he explained it properly. But they didn't even call any witnesses, like a constitutional judge. The last general meeting of the Supreme Court, which spoke about the elimination of Branko Masles in a specific case, I am speaking of course about Mr Maslesha saying, "You have to fuck him!" What did the judges write down? You're not gonna believe this! The judges wrote: "We believe Mr Masleša, President Masleša, that he did not say this and that such a vulgar vocabulary is not in his habit." Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unlike a statement that's notarized and nothing else. We can also cite a few examples. See, when Judge Boštjan Pojdek in Maribor decided whether or not Mr Kangler would alternatively endure a prison sentence, the judge wrote: "There is an unbelief to return to political life." End of quote. The beginning of a new quote: "With his actions he was rewarded by becoming a state councilman, because in a democratic country it is totally unacceptable." The judge shall be released into the constitutionally guaranteed rights of each citizen to run and be elected. These are constitutional rights. And the judge in the statement of his decision violates the Constitution directly. Directly. 6. 6. 2014 are two men, the first is written by Joseph Jerovšek and the second by Rudolf Moge, a very balanced political team, one from the political left, the other from the right, have certified a notary statement by the notary in Maribor that Mr Kangler was 8 years in the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services and that he has come into direct conflict with then Deputy Chief Janez Žirovnik, which is probably true. All those who will participate in such a commission will soon experience this. An application was made for the appointment of a judge. No, the court didn't rule out the judge. No, it didn't. It didn't. The judge issued all the house investigation orders, seven cases. I am moving on to the criticisms of the institutions of the European Union. The European Commission is 27. 3. 2013 said as follows: "Access to an effective, fair justice system is one of the rights in the core of European democracy. Predictable, timely and enforceable decisions are of exceptional importance." In 2011, justice reform took over practically even Europe, Slovenia did not. Not the Slovenian judiciary. Why 2011? From the point of view of the crisis, as courts also adapt the functioning of the crisis. I continue to follow the criticisms of the EU institutions like this. They said that as many as six countries have serious problems with justice, including Slovenia. On 17 March 2014, the European Commission said: "The Republic of Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of the judiciary. For Slovenia there are only Greece, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia." Unbelievable. That's what the European Commission said. Also: Slovenia gives €86 for the justice system, as you know, Europe €42. A lot of countries, 22 euros. And we confirmed an additional 15 million for justice yesterday with the budget rebalancing. Even though they already get almost the most in Europe. That according to the number of judges, you already know. The European Network of Judicial Councils wrote about our justice as follows: "The judiciary, which demands independence and, on the other hand, rejects its responsibility to the people for whom it operates, will not enjoy its trust and thus will not achieve the independence it so advocates." I'm on it. The European Commission is in report 21. 11. 2013 said as follows: "The analysis has shown that 24% of citizens and citizens are trusted in the justice system of the Republic of Slovenia, 71% do not trust justice." I will continue with the criticisms of international institutions. In view of the independence of the judiciary, Slovenia has placed the World Economic Forum in 91. The place. From the point of view of independence. Better than us are Singapore, Uruguay, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Chile, Oman, Costa Rica, Rwanda, Kuwait, Namibia, Ghana, India, Kenya, Lesotho, China, Georgia and so on. I'm going to continue with the criticisms of foreign experts from the bench because I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice at its 2nd meeting on 4 November 2014. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u4	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The Justice Committee is at its 2nd session. 11. 2014 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a recommendation on the state of play in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. On behalf of the applicant, a Member of the Commission, Dr Vinko Gorenak, provided an additional explanation. The proposal seeks to draw attention to the reality of the Slovenian judiciary, which is also pointed out by European and international institutions, domestic and foreign experts and even individual judges. In spite of the provisions of Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act, the Slovenian judiciary, in the opinion of the proposer, that a person who, in the past, had violated human rights in his decisions, could not be appointed for a permanent term of office, after independence, undergo a transformation which should have followed the transition from a single party to a multiparty system and maintained old regime mental patterns rather than be intellectual, autonomous and independent. In his opening statement, Dr. Vinko Gorenak gave further details on this subject. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the National Assembly may only propose to other national authorities those measures which fall within their express and predetermined competence, taking into account their independence and independence in the exercise of these powers. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice presented the Government's written opinion, which notes that the recommendations proposed are partly inadequate, partly unnecessary. The Government has submitted to each of the recommendations proposed a large number of substantive views, supported by statistical data, which clearly indicate the shifts for the better. The quality of the decision-making process is improving, and the timing of the case is also decreasing. The Court itself is aware that improvements in certain areas are still needed, as is evident from the reports at the opening of the judicial year. Through its pro-active communication, the judiciary is increasingly opening up to the public, and the predictability of the trial is helping to unify the case-law. Representatives of the Supreme Court said that matters are also improving in court, as is evident from publicly available data in their operation. They stressed that delays in the functioning of the judiciary are often due to the underthinking actions of the other two branches of government. The representative, Vice-President of the Council of Justice, said that the Council of Justice was a special constitutional body to protect the independence of judges and the judiciary as a whole against the executive and legislative branches of government. On the other hand, in the interest of the public, it must promote the efficiency and quality of the exercise of judicial authority. The rules ensuring the independence of the judiciary are not intended to protect the inviolability of judges, but protect judges from the influences of political parties, other organisations and individuals and thus protect citizens from the abuse of state authority. In the last year, the Council of Justice adopted new criteria for the substantive evaluation of the quality of the work of judges, as well as more views on the ethics and integrity of judges and the incompatibilities of work with the judiciary. With regard to the apparent failure of Slovenia to perform lustration in the judiciary, however, she said that this was not true, since, in accordance with the 1994 Law on Courts, all the then Slovenian judges had to re-enter the election process in the National Assembly. At the same time, it follows from today's old structure of Slovenian judges that almost half of them graduated after the independence of Slovenia, so that it is apparent that their people belong to the previous regime simplified, unfounded and untrue. In the debate, opposition Members assessed the Committee's treatment as well-intentioned with a view to improving the functioning of the judiciary and correcting the injustices committed in judicial proceedings. The recommendations proposed follow the warnings of the European institutions and will contribute to an independent and responsible judiciary. Slovenian economists also point out that the improvement of the judiciary is one of the foundations of the economic and financial crisis. They expressed concern about data and a low level of mistrust in justice, which, as a result, also affects the stability of the state and the general social climate. They reiterated the need to coordinate the efforts of all three branches of government towards greater efficiency, openness and transparency in order to raise people's trust and improve the situation in Slovenian justice. Coalition Members felt that the situation in the field of justice was improving. It is also growing people's confidence in it, and the debate on the Committee has been assessed as inappropriate, aimed at discrediting the judiciary. In their view, the proposal for a recommendation is based on a lack of knowledge of the judicial system; and [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the framework of the division of power. They agreed that all three branches of government with joint action could help improve the Slovenian legal order and the Slovenian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, the motioner! It's been two months since I've been Justice and Fifth Minister, or I'm listening to the same mass, if you'll allow me that expression, with the same arguments about justice. I believe with the same motives. In that proposal, MEPs and Members stressed that confidence in the justice system in the Republic of Slovenia is the lowest in the European Union. In part, it's low, it's not the lowest. About there with politics, there's justice. That the effectiveness of justice is significantly lower than that of the European Union. It's partly holding. The effectiveness of Slovenian justice is not optimal, it is not at an enviable level, but it is not absolutely catastrophic, but above all trends are improving. We cannot be satisfied with this situation, but we can be partially satisfied with positive trends. By the way, today you will hear or hear, and we have already heard a huge quote from various critical opinions on the Slovenian judicial system by the European institutions. These opinions exist. As usual, positive things exist in the same documents. The world is not black and white, and as such we cannot create it. Slovenian justice has problems, we should work together to eliminate them, but not everything is black and white. Slovenian justice is also praised in certain parts by these same institutions. And by the way, as we know, Slovenia has been under the very watchful eye of the European Union in recent years, since the June recommendations of the European Commission of Slovenia, 9 of them, one quarter of one recommendation concerns only justice. Even international recognitions have been received with regard to certain elements of the correction of arrears. If we continue to make a number of judges appear impartial and doubt that the independence and fairness of the proceedings are not dealt with by the Court of Justice. That 613 courts violated human rights and fundamental freedoms during the period 1999-2000. In its written opinion, which was also presented to the Committee, the Government agreed to the recommendations in its work. The fact is that addressing the issue of justice requires a concerted effort by all three branches of government. The fact is that there is also responsibility for independence and that this responsibility must also be strengthened in the judiciary, and in a month or less from the Ministry of Justice or the Government, we will send amendments to the Judicial Service Act, the State Prosecutor's Office Act and the Courts Act, which will also strengthen accountability in this area, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe or the Anti-Corruption Group. However, as Minister of Justice and as a representative of the Government, we cannot agree on what is at the heart of these recommendations, and this is that Slovenian courts, under the overallitarian and root coats of the totalitarian regime, are massively violating human rights. This is a real virtual reality that you create with such an onset, and this makes the world black and white, and you push the judiciary into some defense, where it will be difficult to admit those mistakes that it indisputably has. I wish today's debate were constructive. You're talking about a third branch of power that can't even be here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u7	Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. What the Minister of Justice in the National Assembly has afforded himself in the introduction and conclusion is unworthy. He can do this in his ministry, there can be a school of his officials and deputies, and in the National Assembly, a gentleman who has violated 8 laws, 3 regulations, says 11 acts of the rule of law, cannot afford it. He was appointed, elected to the head of the Ministry of Justice with knowledge, with the document of the state institution, the Supreme Auditor's House, to break the laws of his work. And now, Mr, which is a minister of political will, teaches the school here how the National Assembly and Members should discuss a particular subject. It speaks of the fact that all three branches of government must strive to improve the situation in the judiciary, but at the same time it says that we must not do so. The National Assembly appoints the entire Summit of the Court of Justice, from the Constitutional Judges, Supreme Judges, Presidents of the Supreme Court, part of the Council of Justice, all these proceedings are said to be. All those who propose the personal structure of these courts lobby for a particular structure to be chosen. And then there's a minister who's a serial lawbreaker, that's what the Court of Auditors' audit report says, and he's teaching what elected representatives can talk about. Mr. Secretary, about what we're going to invest! You are obliged to answer this correctly, but you are not able to respond correctly, so you are wasting your time here on slanderous Members and teaching how to do this. Mr President of the National Assembly, you are the ones who must ensure integrity in this National Assembly, and you must ensure that representatives, those starry representatives of the executive branch who come to the National Assembly, are respectful of Members to speak with data, credible, that they also comment on any statements that Members use in their work can also deny them, there is no problem. But this sublime demeaning of the candidates of the agenda is unworthy. If the situation in court is good, dear colleagues, well-respected president of the National Assembly, then I'm also a pope, and someone else. And I propose that Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice in these star performances of yours, put him down and ground him in a way that he will discuss as he would in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u9	Now, colleague Tanko, the first question is, on the basis of what you are making this proposal. Since it is a procedural proposal, I would like to hear an argument based on what. You've taken 3 minutes to say what you think, so you've commented, in a way you've abused the procedural rule, without clearly substantiating what you really want. In the end, you said to calm him down, like you said, you didn't say on the basis of anything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u10	Mr President of the National Assembly, you were very consistent yesterday, and you were able to warn each of the Members who did not exactly explain his voice. Otherwise, everyone on this side, nobody on the other side. And if you know how to use the rules of procedure and what I've said, then you must also warn anyone you've elected as your minister. Respectful conduct in the National Assembly is also governed by rules for those invited to the National Assembly. You have provisions and I suggest that you apply them consistently to the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to your coalition colleagues and, of course, to those you invite to the meeting of the National Assembly. The fact that we're talking about a branch of power that's not even here would have arranged between you and the Minister of State because you're the solicitor of the meeting. And if the minister wished another assistant by the third branch of the government, he would have been approved, but not that such obvious wastes on us who have proposed this item of the agenda in accordance with the rules that are in this National Assembly. Warning, please, and be consistent with your work or let the matter go as it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u11	I'll do the following. I'm not gonna warn him because I'm assuming that what he said has the right to say, just as you have abused procedurally, so you've insulted back. I will not warn either, but we will simply move forward with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u12	Mr. President, thank you. Respected and respected! Even today, in this mandate, we are discussing for at least a fifth time a topic on which, among other things, the mother labour body has not adopted any decision and has in fact rejected it critically in the debate. I wonder whether this is an appropriate time spent and whether it would not have been in these good five hours, as far as we have reserved for this debate, that we may have discussed the ongoing unbridled privatisation of wage cuts in the public sector, which are getting closer, the closure of public institutions that cannot be allowed after 15 employees, under the pretext of rationalisation, of course, or perhaps health problems, that there are increasing numbers of citizens and citizens who do not have compulsory health insurance and are visiting for a bono ambulance. Instead, instead of the problems of the vast majority of citizens, we are dealing with an unwarranted attack on the judiciary, which is only a poorly disguised cover for the defence of the imprisoned president of the largest opposition party. A person who's in prison for a corrupt act he's committed as Prime Minister of the Government. The proposal for recommendations, as received, is based on a simple list, which her author, Dr. Lovro Šturm, calls research and several newspaper articles that are best pampletistic. Such material cannot be the basis for a serious debate on the functioning of the judiciary and even less for a debate on the necessary changes in this area. Indeed, the situation in the judiciary could be much better than it is, and it is true that this situation has improved in recent years, as can be seen from the reports of the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office and the Prosecutor's Office, which show positive trends. The recent attacks against the judiciary have one and the only objective, and this is to raise the status of the rights of only one person over the general rights of the others. As a result, people are so unjustifiably divided that the situation in court is catastrophic and that judges are all gravely violating human rights. Dr. Sturm's research is controversial in several respects, for it is a simple list of all cases that have fallen before the Constitutional Court without explanation. In fact, it is a simple list of cases and the conclusion that in all these cases, judges have grossly violated human rights. The task thus does not show how many cases fall under a lack of regulatory regulation and how much they are actually due to an alleged subjective judicial error. In addition, it should be pointed out that judicial protection exists precisely for the reason that the higher offices control the work of the lower ones and address any errors or shortcomings. The fact is that decision-making in a constitutional complaint is a form of constitutional control over the individual acts of other bodies when they are infringed on human rights and the number of such cases has been falling for years. In 2009, so-called UP cases were poor 500 and last year thousands. It is simply not possible to conclude from this that judges are increasingly violating human rights, and this is in fact unacceptable to say so on the basis of such research as we have received on our bench. In short, the problems that the judiciary has to discuss should also be borne in mind of shortcomings and even errors, but this should be done on the basis of sound arguments and analyses, not on the basis of broccoli of cases and articles from political papers. The President of the Government has put the strengthening of the rule of law ahead of the elections, so it is up to him to start a dialogue with the judiciary and to find solutions with them as soon as possible, which will enable citizens and citizens to regain confidence in the rule of law. Of course, as soon as he can figure out how and with whom to run the country. For the reason stated in the United Left, we reject this recommendation. It's time to stop dealing with the past and step forward from Cerara's fantasy vision. Working people have problems today, and it's time to start solving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u14	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The effective and fast functioning of justice is one of the essential foundations for the functioning of the economy, to ensure an appropriate business environment. In all Slovenian economic forums, entrepreneurs have for several years stressed that the first requirement they refer to authorities is to ensure the functioning of the rule of law. Why are they stressing that? For several years now, we have been faced with severe payment indiscipline in the economy and its incursion, we can say that we are not successful. A number of measures have been taken on the legislative side to improve the situation. If we only remember mandatory nettings, executives, the possibility of enforcement on the basis of a credible charter and more. However, no real impact measure has, unfortunately, brought about. Why? Since payment non-discipline can in fact be effectively addressed only by courts, with a faster resolution of cases, both in the field of enforcement, economic disputes, insolvency proceedings and the effective prosecution of economic crime. Representatives of the judiciary, on the other hand, point out in their speeches that justice is effective enough to have improved the situation to reduce the average time taken to solve cases in the courts, including in more important cases. The information contained in the Court's report for the previous year 2014 does not, unfortunately, attach to these assurances. The statistical part of this annual report shows that in 2013 the Slovenian courts resolved as many as 13% of the more important cases than in 2012. With the amendments adopted last year by the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, the Presidents of the Courts, and in particular the Supreme Court, have acquired significantly greater powers in the area of monitoring the work of the courts and individual judges, as well as action where there is a backlog or too slow work. We only hope that these measures will have some concrete effects. We must further address the issues of confidence in the functioning of the courts. In a recent survey of public satisfaction with the functioning of Slovenian courts, the Supreme Court only found an extremely low level of confidence in the lay public in the courts. Only a third of the layman's public believes in the courts and, according to some other information, the level of trust is even lower. In particular, courts must be given a low level of confidence in the work of the courts by the professional public, including state lawyers, state prosecutors and lawyers. Only a third of the professional public trusts in the functioning of the courts. These are, so to speak, everyday users of court services. This information clearly shows that something is really wrong in the field of justice. It is a judiciary and must be an independent and independent branch of power. This does not mean, however, that it is untouchable and deprived of any responsibility for legal and effective work. On the contrary. As a result of this status, the responsibility of each individual judge as the holder of the judicial authority for the correct, fair and lawful decision in each individual case must be stressed and established. In order to identify and enforce this responsibility, appropriate mechanisms have now been put in place in law, at least following the assurances of the former Justice Minister. It is the responsibility of the courts and other judicial authorities to use these levers. This is the only way to restore confidence in the public, lay and professional, in the functioning of justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u15	Mr Jani Möderndorfer is the Allied Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u16	Good afternoon. Let me begin by saying that, of course, it is more than clear that today it is a purely political debate that has nothing to do with any profession. It is, of course, a legitimate discussion, especially because the National Assembly is used, where there is room for political discussion, and of course the Rules of Procedure also apply, and based on the Rules of Procedure, this point has all its legitimacy. Of course, for the substantive reasons and the results that this debate is intended to bring, there will, of course, be a mere zero. We will achieve nothing except that after this discussion, we will leave this room even more confident of how well they have done their work, and we too, because we simply do not accept it and do not understand it. However, to make the position substantially clearer, I am going in line. In fact, a permanent campaign against the judiciary is under way. That's a fact. In particular, in order for those accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly to understand this, through television and other media, for an expected five-and-a-half-hour debate, to come back a little. It is a verifiable fact that the judiciary is one of the most popular targets of the SDS, practically since its establishment. Further than the Ideological Mobilisation Project for the takeover of the leading role on the right, the reckoning of alleged communism, the judicial dispersion of corruption in the selection and purchase of Finnish armoured persons, Patria, and the campaign against the judiciary or criminals, as in the SDS, deplorably named the judiciary, focused mainly on various forms of pressure on the court and defence due to corruption, in which business is legally liable to the prison sentence of SDS President Janez Janša. Janša himself added quite a new edge to this campaign when, according to the judgment, he announced the following: that he would use all political and other means not to execute the conviction. More than it was clear that Janez Janša's conviction received confirmations in higher courts, the more this campaign took the form of a personal lynching of individual judges, prosecutors, in particular the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleša, and the SDS led this hate campaign through her favoured media. In particular, they abused the National Assembly for these purposes. The recommendations proposed and already rejected by our Justice Committee are similar to those tabled twice by SDS Members in the previous mandate of the National Assembly, which shows that this is also a matter of continuing a rather pointless but dangerous campaign to undermine confidence in the judiciary. As has already been said, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the judiciary in these debates have explained in detail and supported by the figures that the assessments and certain specific charges at the expense of the majority's judiciary do not hold or are biased. But it was, not the first time, and it doesn't seem to be the last time, everything like a bob against a wall. Today's story will obviously repeat itself. Since the SDS is so keen to refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, where it is, of course, appropriate, it should be noted that most of the points of the SDS recommendations are not recommended at all, but merely the findings of certain facts, as the Legislative Service has carefully stated in its opinion. The Service also points out that the State authorities to which these recommendations relate are not at all competent for the recommended action. Let us add that there are also apparently very fast-tracked explanations on a lot of torn legs. Not for the first time so far, the SDS has prepared extensive material for discussion, but it is only somehow a copy-paste of their previous assessments on the functioning of justice. From previous discussions, this time the material differs only by referring to the research of Professor Lovr Šturm. It is not to be overlooked that Sturm was a judicial minister during the Janša government and is now the leader of SDS and, in particular, Janez Janša, still a highly favoured Assembly for the Republic, so he is excused for doubting his impartiality. This, unfortunately said, research should first and foremost prove that, in particular, the Supreme Judges, in the material are mostly named and surnamed as former Supreme Judges, in violation of the Constitution and human rights. It is not to be overlooked that this study came at the time of the meetings of Janša's supporters when he left for the prison sentence and before the Supreme Court began to consider his appeal to the Supreme Court. The purpose of such research is not difficult to guess. That research deserves a nickname, most legal professionals, even those who favor Janša, do not hope to publicly defend it. Nor has she experienced any reflection in the foreign professional and political public. It's just some kind of review of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, from which Dr. Sturm draws conclusions about how judges in our country beat human rights a lot. At the very least, this study is methodologically controversial. Among other things, it does not show how many of the above infringements are indeed due to judicial errors and how many are due to a lack of regulatory regulation. There's only this about Smurf's numbers. In Slovenia, following the proportion of these complaints to the Constitutional Court, we are completely comparable to Germany, to which we like to compare ourselves, and so on. This is why it is important to confirm the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the conclusions of this study are nothing more than an appeal to the lustration and intimidation of the entire judiciary of the Republic of Slovenia. This certainly does not mean that our judiciary is in the best order, but it must be acknowledged that it is progressing. Therefore, it would be better than to stage a rally in the defense of Janez Janša, in Parliament to talk about how to help the judiciary to make as few mistakes as possible. For example, open a debate on how to equip future judges with more knowledge and if you want more craftsmanship. Last but not least, the judiciary is a pretty general concept, and the judge is the one who has to decide. A more productive debate than this is on the abuse of justice for political processes than was imposed by SDS Members would also be a serious professional analysis of laws determining how judges should judge and a debate in Parliament on how to amend and supplement them. Nor would there be an overly thorough debate on the relevance of the organisation of the judiciary. There are many more important issues and, of course, enough, and this is really completely superfluous today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, for which Dr. Jasna Murgelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The SMC Group has already rejected the proposed conclusions on the Committee on Justice because they are unnecessary, inadequate and are based on a lack of knowledge of the functioning of the judicial system and of justice in the framework of the division of power. Nor do we support them because they are based on assumptions which in many cases do not withstand serious professional judgement and present an unacceptable attempt to intervene in the judiciary. As regards the first four proposed decisions, the Legislative and Legal Service has already found that it is only the findings which form part of the reasoning, and it is not the recommendations that the National Assembly may propose to the State authorities. With regard to the other two proposals for conclusions, the Legislative and Legal Service has also found that the National Assembly is not in a position to consider and take decisions which are exclusively within the competence of other branches of government or state bodies. The fifth decision is also inconsistent with the legislation, since, under the Judicial Service Act, the work of the judge shall be assessed by the Personal Council and not by the Council of Justice. Only in cases where the judge does not comply with the service of the judge and his judicial function is terminated, the Court of Justice must confirm the assessment of the judicial service on a transitional basis. The personal or personal responsibility of the judges, of whom much is discussed here, is regulated by the Penal Code, in Article 288, which provides for an act of unlawful, biased and unfair trial. I would be very interested to know if the National Assembly would be prepared to adopt an article of the Penal Code, which would lay down the Member's criminal responsibility. Furthermore, for the purpose of remedying judicial errors, regular legal remedies, exceptional remedies are available to the parties before the ordinary courts, if the party claims a violation of human rights, it is possible to appeal to the Constitutional Court, and then there is the possibility of a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights. Judges are one of the most supervised public officials in the state system. Under the Judicial Service Act, in the event that a misjudgment has been found not to be appropriate to the judicial service, a judicial function may be terminated, it may be solved if it commits an offence by misappropriation of the judicial function or for which it is personally inappropriate. Disciplinary sanctions may also be imposed on a judge if he has infringed the judicial duties laid down by law or by a judicial order. We also believe that the proposal to adopt a recommendation in which the National Assembly should call on the Government to prevent the abuse of the judiciary for political processes is unacceptable and unacceptable. It represents an unproven and flat-rate accusation against the judiciary, which, if adopted, would constitute a grave violation of its independence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we remember why we are actually here. We are in the National Assembly because we have been authorized by the electorates to adopt and legalize appropriate solutions, including for justice. We agree, the situation in Slovenian justice, the judiciary is not ideal. The Court has only found this many times, the Supreme Court in its reports and the Council of Justice in its reports on the state of the judiciary has repeatedly pointed out the shortcomings in the functioning of the judiciary and, in particular, the Supreme Court has actively acted to address these shortcomings. It has also repeatedly pointed out the necessary changes in legislation. Above all, it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt deliberate legislative changes in order for the judiciary to have even more suitable working conditions. The legislative branch of the authorities has repeatedly caused many difficulties and even backlogs in the judicial process, as is seen, for example, in the Constitutional Court's decisions, which are also taking the initiative of more and more courts, to find that certain legislation is contrary to the Constitution, which, of course, led to difficulties in the proceedings. Here, however, we want to focus on what we are responsible for as the National Assembly. This is, as I have already said, for the adoption of the relevant legislation. The Minister of Justice has already announced that he will propose appropriate legal solutions and submit them to the National Assembly for decision. I would like to highlight another positive point in this context. At the invitation of the Supreme Court, the members of the Justice Committee will be invited to attend next week's visit to the Supreme Court in order to understand this, to familiarise themselves with the work of the Supreme Court, which we take as an important step towards establishing a partnership between the judiciary and the legislature, in order to create conditions for the adoption of relevant legislation in this area. This will remove many obstacles to the functioning of justice as we all want, including justice, because this will enable it to work even more effectively. The proposal for a recommendation, which, as explained, is contrary to the current order, is certainly unable to contribute to such a objective and is therefore not supported by the SMC Group as it is said to be. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. Justice, which is not in line with European standards and European values, is a fundamental development problem for Slovenia. This is not a conclusion of the SDS or anything like what some have suggested today, but the Council of Europe reminds us in agreement with the European Commission. This is said to be the two highest European institutions that exist at all. Two years in a row. We met first in a report published on their website in 2013 in spring, and then a year later. Once again, with diplomatic statements, something has happened, and then it has happened practically all over again from the beginning, which, of course, translates from the diplomatic beauty that it is not done enough that the fundamental development problem for Slovenia is still that the justice system, which is expensive and far more severe, does not comply with European standards and European values. This is also not just a finding by the European Commission and the Council of Europe, and we are also reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights. Those of you who have already claimed here that everything is in the best order, you have forgotten that Slovenia is practically on the Court's agenda every week, that we are probably European recorders according to the number of residents for the number of judgments against the State of Slovenia, for the long trials and, of course, for the payment of damages and that in individual cases, very grave human rights violations have also been found in the courts themselves. Recently it was just one case, also published publicly, so I suppose you all know it. It is said to speak of the fact that everything should be fine and everything with Europe is comparable is very far from the truth, and that is the problem. Therefore, it is no wonder, as some of you have already done here, why the same emphasis and conclusions have been proposed as they have been, at any of the meetings in recent years. Simply because nothing has changed, however, it is essentially too small and too slow for anyone in Slovenia to be satisfied with this. For, ladies and gentlemen, what is essential is this also for those who used to say that it is one man, this Slovenia costs tremendously many, many times. Firstly, we have a justice system, which is the most expensive system in Europe, which we pay about 2 times as much per capita as the European average. It's for starters, but it's the least important. It is far worse to pay for all those stories that end in the European Court of Human Rights. Who do you think pays all the damages? The State of Slovenia, taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. And therefore there is no money for all that is previously respected colleague, who is probably already out there enjoying, talked about this for all those things that are not yet important enough money, because they are compensations to those who do not experience what the Slovenian Constitution guarantees them in the Slovenian Court of Justice. What the Slovenian Constitution says: everyone has the right to a trial which must be conducted by a neutral, independent, fair court, in accordance with standards, human values. And an integral part of this right is that it has the right to exercise the judgment within a reasonable time. And the trial must be carried out within a reasonable time. They're getting in the way. Then it's a matter of values. But if we're going to dissect things here, the thing is, let's just put it this way, it's scary. Some of you have already mentioned today, but it is not good to talk about the courts in Parliament. I regret to tell you that the truth is quite the opposite. If you read a single foreign textbook of constitutional law or just a local one, I invite you down to our library, where I am usually very lonely. There are some textbooks of constitutional law, one, for example, written by Dr. Lovro Sturm, professor of constitutional law, and in each one you will find a sentence that is to be o – be careful! – legal judgments are debated in the public, institutions, wherever, the reflection of democracy, even the criterion of the democracy of each country. And those who deny it are simply not democrats at heart. Ask yourself what your values are, and how much you are comparable to Europe if you object. For without speaking of legal powers, I stress once again, judgments, it is simply not possible to talk about values, and values are also the essence of individual judgments. But where do we come from, if judged in violation of European values that have the same criteria for all of them, the same measure – and by the way, this also comes from the Slovenian Constitution – and you get the next comparison that you can check. In Slovenia there is a legal judgment, even two of which, according to someone who was a member of the Udba, thus the secret police of the totalitarian regime, we must not say in democracy that you are admiring it, it is a criminal offence. The man was punished for doing so, and he proved in court, and he even admitted that the officer of the Udba was paid. But the judgment was to the detriment of what he called an adversarial. Because yes — be careful! — could be affected by his tender ferocious soul if you told him in democracy that he was obsessive, that he was doing what he really was doing, because in democracy he had this debilitating appeal. Is this trial in line with European values? People of God, where did we come? But there are – watch out! – as well as the opposite judgments, which, at least two of which I know, are interesting, but it is someone from a democratic field, in particular in both cases for members of the SDS, but everything has to be passed on, even if they match you with the Nazis, and your family's being bullied, and they match you with the killer, and I don't know what, because if you're in the SDS, you have to take everything, according to the same judgment and all the same criteria. Well, good morning! And you will tell me that this is the realization of the constitutional right that we are all equal before the law. There is even greater absurdity, which may show even more in the right light where Slovenian justice is, the issue of their values. There is a judgment in which – again, it is one of the SDS – the court stated that it should pass on everything, even if they pigs his family, if they pig him, because it is not a problem, because we are all such, a little strange, about that kind of reading. By the way, in Austria, that judge would be a reliable subject of the compensation action, and it would be huge, according to their case law. But the same matter has been judged – watch out! – Honorably judge journalists, and those whom we polarly call "lefts", are said to be the Honorary Judgement of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia. And in the same matter it was possible – watch out, the Society of Journalists, but it was for the journalist – to write – the same society wrote - that this is an hate speech, the most rejected form of hate speech, what haunts all of Europe, in accordance with its values. And where Slovenian justice should be the first to speak hate speech. For those of you who do not know what hate speech is according to European criteria, this is not enough if someone is once disgusted with something or manifests himself in an inhuman light, but there is something else that must be present, that is, why such defiance should be justified. These are two key elements and almost no one in Slovenia knows about this. Which is sad. Everyone talks about hate speech, but they don't know that this hate speech has two criteria, that it's something that repeats itself repeatedly, that puts someone in an inhuman position and then that it has to be, that it's really an hate speech, there's still a justification. In this case, however, both conditions were met, at the same time and repeated several times. But the court didn't notice that, and the court taught that everything should actually be brought. A judgment that is already legally binding in this part. Look out! Where do we come from when it comes to values? And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, it's such a problem when you're talking about the rule of law. Because we're here again to ask what the rule of law is. This majority in Slovenia misinterprets, even many, as I see, unfortunately, in the National Assembly misinterprets. The rule of law itself, you know, could be a problem. Do you know which country was the concept of the rule of law? Nazi Germany. But why this country was criminal. Because this rule of law was in conflict with common human values because it was without values. That is why it is so important that we talk about justice, also about values, some of which should be absolutely self-evident, and I say they are not. One of them is the trial within a reasonable time, which I have already talked about. The second is that we should all be equal before marriage. Thirdly, if someone is wronged and it is found to have a right to compensation, that is what some of you have already said. But if something goes wrong, you'll get compensation. It's not that simple. It's not that simple. Do you know what it's like to be compensated in Slovenia? When we have judicial fees that are comparable, say, with Austria and Germany, when we have a significantly lower standard, which is in itself, ladies and gentlemen, I claim a violation of human rights. For because of these judicial fees and the procedures that are extremely severe, if you want to avoid them or lower them, many today are no longer going to court to seek their rights. What, in terms of human rights protection, is kind of questionable. But even if we let this part go, I'll go back to the damages. Maybe someone doesn't know the case, but the case was presented to me by Dr. Strobel, a two-time doctor, a lawyer who's in charge of his own affairs, especially with the people most at risk, with the weakest. And she introduced me to a case that was not particularly old when his stepdaughter, whom his new wife had brought into her marriage, raped me literally on the first night they were married. And raped her until she was of age. It ended up that this poor girl had a mental disorder, is closed in an institution, is occasionally healed, that she is physically destroyed, cannot have children, in short, a person who is completely destroyed. Human life is trampled to the end. And she went to court through a lawyer, at least for compensation. And the man who did this was quite wealthy. Apparently, all the institutions had previously cancelled so that this could have happened. It is also said that the court in one case was presented to me and I believe that it was justified to present it this way. But watch this, I'll leave this moment aside, it's a terrible case. Do you know what the compensation was in the Slovenian court for this? 7,000 euros. Any European Court of Justice from Bulgaria to the United Kingdom would speak of a million dollars. With us, it's 7,000 euros. And if that seems incredible to anyone, I would remind you that in this National Assembly, just a little while ago, we were talking about an infinite debt, I think 11 years of legal proceedings, full of judicial errors in which another life was trampled and destroyed. The man would have been declared a pedophile, everyone was disgusted, turned away from him, eventually completely forgiven and got 5,000 euros in compensation. In each European country, we would talk about the millionth amount of compensation, ladies and gentlemen. Here's to us. The human being is destroyed, and then with the justice system in the present case, he gets 5,000 euros in compensation. And then let someone convince me that Slovenia is a legal and social state, as Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia states. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, these topics need to be opened. Indeed, Minister, I would like to point out this, when he addressed my outstanding issue, which I specifically referred to here, he committed himself to making appropriate amendments to the legislation. Frankly, I seriously doubt when I see what the priorities of this coalition are to make this happen. I hope that, because Slovenia would need this, its people would need this in order to make this country comparable in this part of Europe. But he needs a lot more. He also needs a judiciary that has enjoyed an actual degree of trust, not only to the public at home, as is often misunderstood, but also to the foreign. For I have previously stressed that the judiciary, if it does not work in accordance with European standards and values, is a large, fundamental, essential development problem for Slovenia, and it is. We are reminded of this by the European institutions. This needs to be understood across the board. Another case, if you're an investor, you have a lot of money abroad, and you're looking for a country where you invest, say, you look at Slovenia, you have an ideal position for a lot of good people, and then you see a chief judge out there jumping around with a red star on top of a hat, then you'll probably be like a foreign investor saying, sorry, and I don't trust that kind of justice. And if you don't believe that your investment will be protected in accordance with the standards and values that you believe in yourself, you will go somewhere else. And this is how Slovenia loses its development opportunities. If someone is considered a red exo, all normal business partners run away from it. This needs to be made very clear. And this is also one of the fundamental Slovenian development problems, which goes beyond the topic that we are talking about today. When we talk about justice, we also talk about our development, we also talk about money. For all that we have talked about is costing us, and therefore it is necessary to speak about it. They become a multiple of us: physically, materially, but they also cost us in the form of human rights. For if you are not adequately protected, we are all at risk. You know, today, tomorrow, you know, the wheel of fortune is spinning. No justice in any democratic country should work in this way. And because of the fact that I am talking about individual issues, you know, it is very problematic that in some judicial system, as in Slovenia, when, specifically, a court-martial, a court-martial, I can speak calmly about it, no one can say it as pressure on the court, I am talking about values for values, it was decided when the images of JLA officers who kidnapped Slovenian civilians during the war on Slovenia, independence, dragged them away, beaten them, had been unlawfully closed, it was a clean kidnapping plus physical violence by torture. And they were all forgiven. But it's nothing yet. What an explanation! The Court stated in its explanatory statement that, until October 1991, JLA quoted me as saying: "It was not Slovenia's enemy army." And this was done on behalf of the people. This is how we come to such nonsense and obvious nonsense that I do not say anything worse if it is judged without values, without those values that should be the first and the basis for the justice system to work in accordance with democratic standards at all. And to that, ladies and gentlemen, we do not warn. This is repeatedly pointed out by the European institutions, once again with the judgement of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, over and over again. Sometimes we keep quiet about some very receptive judgments that even abroad reflect on Slovenia's account. On the other hand, those who deal with the economy, because Slovenia is therefore losing development opportunities, not only if we leave those symbols and everything else behind, see if anyone knows that if someone does not pay that if, because of any other matter, they have to go to their company to seek justice, they will not be judged within a reasonable period of time, they will go elsewhere. In addition, not only that, even when it comes to homework, ask yourself how many cases there have been, about some here we have already talked about, when the court has brought one trial and the people waiting for a right have formally obtained, after some years, but at that time the company has gone bankrupt, all the families connected to this company have been on the road, people without income. And now ask yourself where these people's human rights are. I claim that the human rights of these people have also been violated because the Constitution gives them the same rights because of the endless slowness of justice. This is why we do not leave with our left hand when we talk about the issue of Slovenian justice because we are talking about the development of Slovenia because we are talking about money because we are talking about taxpayers' money because we are talking about something because this country is a terrible big state, ladies and gentlemen. This is the problem that we are talking about today. This is why it is even more problematic to find out in a study, and if it wants to be later disputed that over 600 cases have resulted in human rights violations later found by higher courts in the framework of Slovenian justice, in the context of proceedings involving more than 700 Slovenian judges. That's something to worry about. If it's alerted to how important an impartial trial is, I say again, it's not because of one person, not because of me, not because of you here, not because of anyone, but because of everyone, but it's about everything and it's about our development together. For if there is no fair trial within a reasonable time, if there is no effective judicial protection in line with European standards, such a country shall be subject to its own development. It costs a lot of money. Once again, this does not only cost taxpayers concrete compensation money, it does not only cost taxpayers concrete money for courts which is huge, which would probably be more organised, with more consistent European values and standards of conduct likely to be lower, this is the experience of neighbouring countries or even if not, we would probably avoid all the damage we then pay at European institutions in one way or another. But more is what we call lost development opportunities. This is something that should be first and foremost in a country facing a multi-annual economic crisis. If we have courts where individuals act like this, including in leading roles to raise doubts about an impartial trial in accordance with European values and standards, it is clear that investors will go elsewhere. And if trials go on endlessly, not only will foreigners go elsewhere, investors, business partners, Slovenians and Slovenians, entrepreneurs, what is at the heart of the development of each country, because it is the foundation of the welfare of each country, they will pack up and go abroad. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is happening. I'm from Gorenjska and I feel it, and it's probably the same everywhere else, maybe not as bad as it is in Gorenjska. There's either everyone who's capable of doing business, or they already have accounts in Austria, or companies move there, or they've already moved, some with families across the border. Because they simply know here that if they have problems, if there is financial non-discipline, if recovery is necessary, if enforcement is needed, it is a huge question of how effective it will be and how long it will take. And they're gone and they're richer than any other country today. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, this topic that we have opened is so important because it is a fundamental development problem in the country of Slovenia. You should all be worried about that. This should also take precedence in legislative procedures. I hope the Minister will keep the word he gave me at the presentation when he took his term. I'm waiting and I'm waiting. Until then, however, the National Assembly will act wisely and in a state-of-the-art manner if it supports the conclusions that we have proposed in its work, because we draw attention to these fundamental development problems, the problems that also affect human rights and the lives of each individual, and ultimately the well-being of all of us. We will, of course, support the proposed conclusions in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Member, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! In the National Assembly, we have dealt with the topic similar to today three times or even four times between Members and Members of the previous term. It appears that this parliamentary mandate will also be occupied by similar procedures, as it has already begun this forever, for the SDS a popular theme. The current Commission on Petitions and Human Rights has focused on topics such as today, and the plenary session is also burdened with a very early stage, which we can conclude or anticipate, respected colleagues and colleagues, to set even a record in addressing the same topics. The situation in the field of justice, particularly in relation to the Patria trial and its main actor, Mr Janez Janša, is clearly the most important priority problem for the SDS. You, dear fellows, don't worry about the thousands of people who have been affected by the weather. For a hundred and thousands of people who are out of work, you don't care much. Also, solutions for nearly half the pensioners who live below the poverty line cannot be found so that the fall of life can survive peacefully and without concern. You don't care if our economy ever recovers or not. Your main priority is to discredit the judiciary and undermine the authority and independence of individual branches of government. In the Desus Group, we are concerned about this kind of work. We have therefore rejected the proposal already on the labour market, as it is our assessment of the work of the courts or of the specific individual judges on the part of the policy that it is inappropriate and also dangerous to do so. All the indications and indications presented by the applicant in the proposal for a recommendation on the situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings have been clearly and argumentatively shown to be unacceptable on the home working body by the representatives of the judiciary. In the Desus Group, we are also convinced that all eyewitnesses are exaggerated and presented solely to arouse a false impression of how everything is wrong with our judicial system and how no judge or judge in this country is fit to perform a judicial function. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, when monitoring the situation in the judiciary, we observe that many improvements are taking place, but we are also aware that it also recognises the competent ministry that certain shortcomings in the Slovenian judiciary are still, some of them are also unacceptable and require immediate action. The Desus Group believes and trusts the new minister and his team that the areas that are still limping will improve effectively, but of course we need broad political and, finally, public support. In the Desus Group, we believe that Slovenian justice needs certain changes, but above all it needs quality and effective legislation to ensure the well-being and equality of Slovenian citizens and that legislation will not change every time the ruling authority is replaced. Respected and respected, many times it turns out that the problem is in inconsistent and rapidly changing laws. For us, the debate on the effectiveness, impartiality and independence of justice policy is extremely inappropriate and dangerous for us Members from Desus. The expression of political parties on this is an attempt to politicise the judiciary, which threatens the democratic and legal nature of our country. For this reason, in the Desus Group, we will not, in particular and in particular, define the specific cases in this agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u24	Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In preparing today's position, the Group of Social Democrats, we have been thinking about how to draw up a position not to repeat ourselves. But it is not possible, for at the time of the examination of the requirement on the working body, the representative of the applicant reminded us that he had prepared a slightly longer presentation for the presentation on the working body because most of the members were new and no one listened to it. Indeed, they did not listen, but I can certainly say that we are the new Members of the Group of Social Democrats, such is the majority, of the Magnographic Records, familiar with your June debate, not just that, but some other. Similar topics, which were and are aimed at the destruction of the judiciary and also the state prosecutor's organisation, particularly its boss, are classified as under the current lane. One possibility was to prepare a compilation of all the views we have prepared on a similar subject, or to replace a matter with a matter that would be in line with the matter. The applicants of the request also replaced some chapters with new ones, such as some opinions from Slovenian lawyers at home and abroad, which, while in Slovenia, acquired education, experience, advancement and so on. But there's no way to overlook Dr. Sturm's famous research. This is what the applicant called it on the parent’s working body. Scientists and researchers wonder if it is true that the database is the same as research. In the debates, the signatories also touch on the old issues that we assess as giving them political points. Social Democrats agree with the opinion of the representatives of the Supreme Court that notable research, newspaper articles and statements by individuals who have a problem with the judiciary cannot be the basis for serious discussion of human rights violations before Slovenian courts. However, the arguments and criticisms that contribute to the improvement of the situation are certainly welcome. Not only in court, but also in other areas of society. We can also make progress on the basis of a critical view of our past work. Many, including some of us here, have made decisions in their career that later proved wrong and have also caused harm to a group or even to a country, and have been responsible, perhaps even rewarded. Today's debate on the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a proposal for a recommendation on the situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings is, as I have already said, a consolidated and complementary material on the stories already heard, focused primarily on the attack on the judiciary, especially on its boss, and on certain individual judges who do not work according to the expectations of the applicants. They also constantly and in various ways, by abuse of the National Assembly, impose on the public the thesis that everything is wrong in the courts. In view of the repetition of the stories, I will allow myself to read the introductory thought of our position of 5 June 2013 at the 38th extraordinary session: "Social Democrats defend the notion that it is unacceptable that when politicians or privileged members of the elite are found in the proceedings, the authority of the courts is compromised. Judges must be an independent and equal branch of the authorities, because they must protect the rights and defend the equality of the parties in judicial proceedings." But I'd like to add the following in this position. Even less so, individual cases are allowed to be used to defend an individual. Your Honor, in our firm conviction, a permanent judicial mandate is a guarantee for an independent judiciary. A court that will dare to judge and punish itself until recently untouchable. We will support those legal solutions that will go in the direction of determining the strictest professional and ethical criteria that will have to be met by candidates for a judge. However, not only judges but also support staff must act ethically and operate on the basis of legal and professional criteria. Social Democrats still advocate the idea that they must work alone in the judiciary to gain respect and trust. They will also contribute to the reputation and trust of the judiciary by responding to court orders, by respecting court decisions and by failing to make statements that give rise to a lack of respect for and ignorance of the decisions of the judiciary. Moreover, they will not fall into temptation as high - ranking public officials. We are also aware by the Social Democrats that the satisfaction of citizens and citizens will always be shared in any judgment given. Especially in those media more receptive judgments and when the public does not know all the facts, legality and irregularities of judgments, when we conclude only on the basis of media publications. Once again, in the Group of Social Democrats we support a permanent judicial mandate. However, the officials of the judiciary should ensure that they regain their respect for citizens and citizens through quality and effective work. The supervisory authorities within the judiciary should sanction those who do not act in accordance with the Constitution, laws and ethical criteria accordingly. However, the policy should ensure that the judiciary can carry out the tasks imposed by the Constitution and the laws impartially and independently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the draft report. The first one has the floor to propose to Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much. It's an expected case. However, I have come from the fact that a large part of the Members is new and that some things may be perceived differently, but I see from the debate or presentation of the views of the Group Members that you are credible and respectful heirs of those who have sat before you in these Members' benches. Of course I'd only react to two things. The first is what Mrs Porotatova said – the economy, the pensioners, and I don't know what. Yeah, who's doing that, Mrs. Popotat? Are you still in the opposition or in the coalition? That's what the coalition does, not the opposition. The opposition has no authority and cannot, at least directly, influence economic growth, on the pensioners, and I don't know what it's all about, it's your job, you're in the government, not us. That's one thing. Second thing, all those of you talking about an independent judiciary again and so on, we're just gonna do the exercises. So we will repeat the exercise, because the repetition of these exercises obviously also brings progress. Indeed, since 2008, when it has been said in this Chamber that there has been no debate on the judiciary, that no mention of any matter in the judiciary has been allowed until today, but even today, the Minister of Justice recognises and says, the Minister of Justice, that the judiciary is allowed to criticize. It's progress, but it's slow. But you'll be doing the same thing again. But I would have continued where I had previously left off, with criticism from foreign experts. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you what has changed since 2003, when German Judge Norman Doukoff said in such a way that the judiciary is concerned with protecting its privileges and is not prepared for any change. What's new? Nothing. It's all the same in court. The dean of Helsinki Law School spoke about confidence in justice some month ago in Brdo. And he said, "If there's no trust in justice, the rule of law doesn't work." We know that the confidence of our citizens in justice is 24%. Thus, according to the Dean of this Faculty there is simply no rule of law in Slovenia. Another of the local experts who spoke about Slovenian justice, to quote Dr. Klemna Jaklič, is a gentleman who at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law could not have been an assistant because the Ljubljana Faculty of Law said that he did not need one, he went to the United States of America because he made two doctorates and today he is teaching American judges at Harvard. So it's good for them, and for us, for Ljubljana Law School, it wasn't right. He says so when he speaks of the independence of the judiciary and when he speaks of an impartial trial, he says, "any communication between the judge and the prosecutor without the presence of the accused or between the judge and the accused or his lawyer without the presence of the prosecutor is a reason to doubt the judge's objectivity. It is also the reason for the annulment of a number of judgments." He then referred to Mr Masleša in particular and the performances of the President of the Party in 2010 and 1999 and, of course, linked this and justified that in such cases, the European Court of Human Rights would consider this to be a violation of human rights. But we know what Mr Masleš did on the days of the judiciary, where Mr Ferlinc, the prosecutor, sat, in the first place, of course, applauded Mr Masleš's verbal account with the President of the party. Klemen Jaklič says in the following: "Malesha has not only violated the spirit, but also through the content of the explicit provision of the annual schedule, which ensures that the President and no judge can be assigned to the Senate on a known specific matter. There is always a violation of this right, to the rightful judge, when a judge appears who already knows in advance that he will decide on it, and this is expressly determined by the way he puts himself in the trial of a particular case. In fact, this is not just the reason for the exclusion, but according to the Law on Courts is also the reason for the termination of the Supreme Judge's office." But our Council of Justice will do nothing, and neither will the Minister. Prof. Dr. Janez Kranjc says in this regard: "If the judiciary wants to be credible, judges must set an example in their conduct and expertise. More than the number of cases resolved, we should look at the correctness and fairness of decisions." You disqualified Dr. Sturm's research, some even in your performances, also disqualify her at the Justice Department, as well as at the Ljubljana Law School, where he is an honorary professor, a deserving professor. And yet, my dears, what did Dr. Sturm do? He didn't do anything special. He counted the judgments of the Constitutional Court and found that 613 Chambers had violated human rights in 15 years from the point of view of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and nothing else. They were also violated by Mr Maslesa fourteen times, including Supreme Judges: Ziba Trumpus, Vasili Polič, Kristina Ozbolt, Peter Hauptman, Pavle Dolenc, Martina Lippai, Rudi Stravs, Nina Betto, Jože Petrič, Irena Badovinac Bjelic, Bojan Dolenc, Janez Vlaj, now President of the Council of Justice, Peter Golob and so on. According to the courts, he also analysed the situation and made it clear that this happened most of the time in Ljubljana – 90 times, in the Supreme Court about 35 times and so on, and so on and so on. These are now, I'll say, domestic experts. I would like to remind you that the judges are also criticizing the state of justice and I am moving on to a few quotations from the judges. So, I quote: "The problem of the Slovenian judiciary is not so much in influence, or in attempts to influence it and in submission by other branches of government. The main problem is not policy penetration in the judiciary. The Slovenian acquis has decent and comparable mechanisms for ensuring independence from external influences at formal level with other democratic and legally regulated countries. The cardinal problem," I quote, "the Slovenian judiciary is the judiciary itself and, of course, the policy within it, because as the legacy of the totalitarian period, it has been preserved in the stricken old-line mental patterns and collective corporate thinking." I also quote the judge: "There he keeps and himself a thought-worthy control power and fertilizes through institutions of incarceration and self-sufficiency, which in a normal country with democratic tradition, a legal culture of positive effects, would be preserved by what still exists is an internal mental, independent judiciary." "Sadness in Slovenia", another quote, is not so." In Slovenia, what it is is is preserved, all the more so as intellectual, autonomous and independent justice. Single shooters who think independently and critically, which should be their own judgmental minds, have been pushed to the brink, lonely and marked as healthful and strange. It is no wonder, then, that the head of an independent court thus hides the favor of the judges — the kind of judiciary — so is their president, whom the judiciary has chosen only autonomously. It is also not surprising that among the lecturers in judicial schools chosen by an autonomous and independent judiciary, there is always someone who is a highly profiled political activist without any legal education. Years ago you taught there Mr. Saiovic, a professional veterinarian, and Mr. Anderlič, a professional gopher, it's not bad, but what such people have to teach judges, it's not clear to me." I also quote: "The politicians really don't have to do anything, so to speak, they don't have to influence the judiciary in any way, so to speak, in order to subjugate it and ensure its long-term impact on it, it has already, in fact, always. The problem with the Slovenian judiciary is the lack of mental, intellectual independence, the problem is the internal autonomy of judges" and so on. If I were to say this in 2008, I think the President would have already dismissed me from the Chamber and I will now say, maybe someone protested, but look, because that's not what I said, that's what Constitutional Judge Jan Zobez said at his lecture in the United States. Those who criticize Dr. Sturm may have some respect for Boštjan M. Zupančič, a well-known lecturer of the Faculty of Law and a member of international courts. It also assessed the thing around Vaskrisic or, as it were, yes, sort of from Lithuania, which lost the house for 124 euros. They sold it to him at the auction because he owed him 124 euros. And he said, Dr. Boštian M. Mayor, that this is an incredible mechanical legal formalism. He went on to say that our judges do not judge by reason of common sense in the context of each case individually, but mechanically draw conclusions from a fictional equation. In short, the judge must have a particularly healthy farm of intelligence and legal knowledge. He said that. And now, he said a lot of other things, that I won't quote everything, those who teach at Law School, you know how he evaluated you, he said so that those who come from Law School and become judges are, in fact, middle or senior legal sisters and not graduate lawyers. So much for all those who have praised justice, and I don't know what it is. A retired judge from the coast wrote this to me. "The judges have turned the principle of independence in the trial into irresponsibility for bad work." For 40 years, he was a judge, a prosecutor, and in the end, this gentleman's lawyer. You received a letter from Judge Metke Kramberger Wherry on October 10th. See, on the one hand, the judiciary, after the commitment to citizens, is supposed to reduce the number of judges, which means that the internal redeployment of those who are already judges, at the time of retirement, rather than new employment. What's going on? They simply do not respect and employ from outside, but with citizens they have signed a commitment to reduce the number of judges. So they lied. I'm not talking about specifics, because I can't because it's classified. The Council of Justice is under the designation of a person, who is now not to be appointed by me, because he could have been a member of the criminal procedure, but who was a judge before, by means of an act, he has provided that, after a term of office, he may come back to the Judges. It's a very interesting thing. Well, that's legally permissible, and I don't know why they're hiding it. I don't know why it has to be classified. But they put it under cover. At the same time, they publicly discredited Judge Majdo Kovačič of Celje, who, for example, may have reviewed some law within five years and made comments on it. But since he was a contracting and requesting SDS, this is strictly forbidden. You see, it's the Council of Justice. Examples of bad practices. The citizens' trust, we know it's 24%. But let's go in one order. All those who say how independent justice is, how to leave them alone, and how not to show them a finger, Mrs Porotat, listen well. Branka Cat, the murderer of three young people in a carambola, was released from prison for error and then sentenced again. Balkan warrior – you know what kind of project it was, how much money it was about. They simply allowed the use of covert investigative measures, but then they said it was illegal. And the evidence obtained in Serbia and Slovenia is not valid in Slovenia, but is valid in Germany, Italy and more. But those who were condemned are now on the run for letting them go. Ah, Mrs. Popot can't listen anymore. In one case, the bailiff said, "Yes, ma'am, I have to do the task that the court has assigned me, you're not Jankovic, I have to do this task." Have you seen any judgment on bad loans? There were 3 billion of them and something like that. Nothing yet. Branko Lužar, Orion. Do we remember him? What happened to him? He's tricked hundreds of people, he's forgiven all the blame for us being clear, all those who were injured. An affair of friends in bankruptcy. A very interesting story, in connection with bankruptcy administrators and judges who hang out, have fun and illegally give each other prizes. It's illegal. Of course, then there's the prize. A judge who misjudged the bankruptcy award six times and found it, was then rewarded and then progressed. Now I won't be talking about Mr. Masles and Fisher, because we've already told each other everything, there's nothing more to add. Perhaps, for example, we would like to say more about Mrs Matei Lužovec, a judge who takes witness to a fortune teller in court. So the appellant is credible and what she says is fine and it is accepted in court, but at the same time, for example, forgive the torturers of cats, where the police provide material evidence of how these cats were tortured and killed. Vesna Pavlič Pivk, we all know why he's going, take a look at this last democracy. Pretty, isn't it? With all the totalitarian symbols, she is today an independent judge. Andre Ferlinc, Jure Cekuta are walking on Maribor. And the defendant, and that's all right, that's all normal, there's no problem. Vesna Bergant Rakočević, congratulations Barbara Klanjšek on the upright attitude in the Patria case, and, of course, "protestants are North Koreans", these are the words of the judge. Let's move on. Worse, the bankruptcy manager who put what he put in his pocket I can no longer say so this gentleman was the first of the bankruptcy administrators to come before the court of course. [[…]] [[…]] And what happened? To shorten this case so that I don’t take too long — at first stage, I’m sentenced to many years in prison. Material evidence was submitted, not indications, and material evidence was provided. The Supreme Court dismissed the case and acquitted him of all charges. The husband didn't do anything. With the Supreme Court making a series of mistakes that no one can fix anymore. For example, they didn't invite the specialized prosecutor's office, and when they made the decision, the prosecutor didn't even have a word because he didn't even know he was making the decision. That's an interesting thing. It's a very interesting thing. And this gentleman is, of course, at large today. Those who are, of course, injured have a very negative opinion on this, I'll say, very negative opinion. Of course, this is also the case in some other cases that I will quote. I see Krško – the judge is mistaken and will charge the bankruptcy manager 160,000 euros too much. Too much to forget that he already made an advance years ago, and 160 thousand euros, the bankruptcy manager puts it in his pocket. The Supreme Court finds that out and says there's nothing left to do, that the money went into the pocket and that there's no way to get it back. But the workers are broke. In January 2009, the bankruptcy administrators, with the help of the then Minister Zalar, received around € 10,000 a month. But then Mr. Zalar announced some change of the rules and said, they get too much, I'm going to "scrat". And he did. Now, if you really meant to do this, then you should have done it in such a way that you wouldn't have kept saying that the rulebook would change. No, the actions of judges and bankruptcy managers followed, and in seven days in early July 2009 they paid two million 300,000 euros. So as many as you did in two years together. Look very interesting – now don't say we can't talk about it, we have to talk about it – a very interesting example is from Nova Gorica, a Žiga Friend, a 14-year-old youth, finds some pornographic material. And what happens? That's where she finds her teacher, teacher or something. This one, of course, leads him around, you'll think it's a photomontage. But the performer says there's no photomontage, the pictures are real, but the prosecutor of the juvenile is after him, and the judge is also condemning him, despite the fact that the expert confirmed that the photograph was genuine. The higher court in Cyprus stopped the case and the minor was no longer found guilty, so he was forgiven. But the parents of this excusable judgment, you will not believe, send their son's defence to the members of the parent's world and to the action of prosecutor Mrs. Ivanova, this is the prosecutor who persecuted Robert Fojakr for 11 years and the court has always found illegality, that is, the court has said, "The Prosecutor, stop persecuting this person because you are wrong." And she's been suing him for 11 years. Well, the parents gave it to the parents' world to defend their son, so he didn't do anything wrong. You're not gonna believe this. The prosecutor will file a motion against the parents for disclosure of the personal information of their own son. My own son. Because you shouldn't do that because minors are protected in procedures, I'm told. Nonsense. It's not just illegal knowledge, it's a farmer's logic, it's not going together. And, of course, parents ask journalists in Ljubljana, specifically in the Reporter, to sign and this minor becomes a full-time adult and also sign, please publish with names and surnames. And what happens? Journalists are convicted of publishing personal information, but they had the permission of the parents and this son. And now the press is convicted of publishing personal information. The higher court in Maribor confirmed this, but the case is now in the Supreme Court. The latest case of not saying I'm just saying old things. A few days ago, we learned that, as you all know, those who deal with this a little bit more, every judge has to be evaluated every three years, because it's a legal provision. See, Judge Ines Kobe in Kočev received her final assessment in 2003. Who's responsible for this? Who's responsible for this? He's gone, and no one's gonna answer. Let's move on. See, another case, Anita Dolinska, actually like this – there was a call for a senior judge in Celje this March. We all know that the number of judges has to be reduced, they have committed themselves to the citizens' commitment, but they have issued a call for a higher judge. It would be normal for a judge to be found in a district court and promoted to a higher judge, it would be perfectly normal. But look, Anita Dolinšek, a lawyer who doesn't have one day's trial experience, signed up for the invitation. A judge of the district court, Alenka Pavič, also applied, so the Council of Justice had two persons. A person who has 8 years of work experience in the field of economic disputes and a person who does not have one day of judicial experience, we are talking about a call for a higher judge. The Council of Justice chooses Dolinško, a lawyer who has no experience, and puts her in the position of a higher judge. Pavičeva complains to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court judges: Pavičeva is right. So the Council of Justice unjustifiably proposed Dolinsky’s because he had no experience, but he should have chosen Pavič’s. The court ruled that. Look, of course they repeat the procedures. And what happens in the repeated procedure? They re-elect a lawyer who has no work experience and refuse a judge who has a judgment in his pocket that she should be chosen. And, of course, the judge despairs of the judicial system, but what will be the other thing, because there can be no other. You know there's something else to say about that. So the Supreme Court, the President of the Government last year and the then Minister signed a commitment to citizens, after which the Ministry provided approximately €4 million in two years of additional funding, and the judges pledged to reduce the number of judges by 56 in the period from 1. 6. 2013 to 1. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What did they do? The money was collected, but the number of judges was reduced by 21 and not 56. You see, this is the real situation in justice. And there are still many such cases. I call it cheating on citizens and nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish because there is a lot of this material. Instead of the conclusion that you are likely to hear many more times, given the series’s rejection of conclusions, we will simply repeat the exercises. To conclude, let me put it this way. Look, justice is what it is. In 1990 there was no transformation, nor did the Faculty of Law, still teaching the same persons or teaching far after 1990. Say, Dr. Bavcon, an honorary citizen of Ljubljana. What did he write in 1978? "Penal law is first of all a means of protecting existing social arrangements. In this context, criminal law is a means of repression and of systematically combating a certain part of the population, i.e. to fight," Lenin quoted him as saying, "that is to fight against a class which, because of its different views, opposes the integrity of existing social regulation or its constituent parts." Let us say by peasants that people will understand: Penal law is a means of protecting communism. Yeah, well, he's been teaching since 1990, too. But that means protecting communism has turned it into a means to protect the Slovenian political left. That's the only difference. What else did he do? In 1987, this is three years before independence, four years ago, he wrote, on page 29, Penal Law, a general part: "In our social situation, criminal law must be in line with the essential characteristics of social regulation," says socialism. Interesting thing, isn't it? And they had the same textbooks ahead. And then it's no wonder that, of course, the situation is what it is like to have judges breathing to the left, to the left, to the right, and you get a cookie, like one of the famous ones wrote, I think he's a sociologist or something. So much for now. I will take the floor below, to any debate that I think is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Bojan Dobowski. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you. All those who follow this debate! I come from three findings on judicial proceedings. First of all, the courts don't handle cases. Everyone who comes to court and thinks they're gonna solve the case is wrong. The courts judge by law. Two parties appear before the court and are usually dissatisfied with both parties. The one who wins because she thought she could do more, and the one who lost is still unhappy. And thirdly, the courts are always working on solving the case. As we look at the issue of the courts, we see that in recent years things are increasingly complex and increasingly extensive. That they have European elements because it is a matter of taking into account foreign systems, that there is increasing economic and financial crime and therefore additional education is needed, for which money is usually running out. If we look at statistics, of course those official statistics and others give some comparisons, because in-depth analysis comes from quantitative and qualitative results. If I look more closely at those qualitative problems in the courts, I can point out the following issues, for the first time, that the biggest problem in the courts is transparent progress and recruitment. It will be necessary to introduce transparent criteria, known in advance how progress is being made, on what criteria and how this candidate has been selected. This will bring satisfaction within the institution and somehow increase the efficiency of these institutions. The second problem I can relate to the number of judges already exposed today, which I see through the problem of assigned judges. Judges shall be assigned to ministries or to other work within the system itself and shall not perform judicial work. Thus, we could increase the number of judges and the problem attached to this is that such judges cannot be judged in progress because they do not belong. The next problem could be highlighted by what we were already reminded of by colleagues from Germany who came to see what was going on in Slovenia and pointed out that the issue of second-degree trial is a key issue. That the problem is that these courts are returning matters to the first stage, as we have already corrected to some extent, but matters are still returning in key cases, which means extending the proceedings and not creating judicial practice. And then the last thing I could point out is that judges as officials are the ones who have the incompatibilities allowance and are supposed to do this job alone. Of course, they are also allowed education, but it is meant to be education within institutions in a judicial school and so on, not education in private institutions, which is what is happening. In this regard, I would also point out that some are doing so-called para-judicial work in various arbitrations, councils and similar cases, and that is why judges are being extradited. Those who do judicial work and are not involved in some such institutions then work even harder, because those who are further engaged in their work must be excluded because they run into the same customers as in their additional work. If I conclude, I could say that, as in any other institution, there are good judges and bad judges in the courts. And those few bad judges throw a bad light on the whole institution, and that's pretty much what's happening in the media. However, it has been shown that, on the last Commission of Elections, we have consistently supported the proposal to withdraw the mandate of the judge who has violated such rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The President of the Roblekov Court of Justice stated that the system of justice should be restored to the reputation it had 30 years ago. If you do not feel that something is very wrong in this statement, then our problem is even greater. Such statements are precisely the reason why we need to talk about the situation in the judiciary and justice as a whole. The statement refers to an alarming mentality and value system. It is true that our justice system must gain its reputation. What's that? The reputation must be comparable to the democratic system and not totalitarian. Madam is talking about, in a way, she is also calling for a system that has violated the human rights of the worst forms. He's talking about taking lives, killings, getting shot in the head, killing nine-year-olds. And you, my respectable colleagues, on this side, laugh at my performance. We are talking about a system that the Slovenian people plebiscitefully rejected. And these statements, they are also worrying about something else, which we should be more concerned about today. We are talking about the fact that this branch of government has not made a valuable leap from the former, I repeat, the totalitarian regime into a democratic one. Today, we also hear that all of this has been heard many times. It was, but obviously we're gonna have to talk about it a lot more and listen more. For so long and so long, however, there will be important steps forward. Declarations that a policy that is somehow a new policy must take care of the conditions that are appropriate to the system in which we live. But if we really want to talk about it, then we also need to talk about the violation of our legislation by representatives of state institutions. You're breaking the law. And not one, they break them more. Laws are violated by KPC presidents who become justice ministers, laws are violated by representatives of the defence, laws are violated by the Council of Justice, laws are violated by an information officer. And when we want to discuss these issues, you say it doesn't matter. So, for you, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that we are all equal before the law, is simply not important. In all of this it is most funny to keep listening when you talk about one of the processes that ended in the fact that the leader of the opposition closed down a few days before the elections. You're the one who's always talking about this process. I wonder why. But maybe there's just a little bit of consciousness in you that something's not what it's supposed to be. And I leave this to you, Your Honor. However, I certainly object to the statements made today that things on the judicial system are changing considerably for the better. Maybe in some procedures. I'm asking you, what are the more difficult procedures? What's the situation there? The data show everything before the situation improves. One of the fellow Members also spoke about the fact that the drafters, i.e. the Slovenian Democratic Party, have made a number of press articles and this is supposed to be the argument for today's debate. Dropping the act. You know why? Because we are talking about things that talk about the lives and rights of our citizens and citizens. And now I'm going to ask you: Is the 2009 Branko Cat case when he drove a private vehicle along the wrong lane of the highway and caused the death of three young people, a newspaper article? And that this gentleman is walking our streets today. Is this a newspaper article for those families who lost their children? No, Your Honor. This is a disgrace to our judicial system and to all those who say that we should not discuss it or that it is not worth discussing because we have discussed it so many times. The following is also the case of someone being robbed for a total of 150 euros, while on the other hand those who caused a hole in the banking system are walking the streets and putting their money into bank oasis. And then we listen to how to take care of the social state. Yes, please! And worse yet, to think about whether we would give a few more euros for flood areas or not and then your decision, the right decision of the majority is, of course, not necessary. And when we talk about the situation under the judicial system, and we will talk many times, and I will speak in person again and again as long as there is a man in the office of President of the Supreme Court who has violated human rights, a man who has been impressed by the attack on our country of Slovenia and who has been talking about the beating of Slovenia. Yes, please! If your own values are not the same, then follow the values that were and are enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As long as people are in such positions and it will be possible for the Minister of Justice to become someone who violates the law, then do not doubt that people will not and cannot have the opinion that our justice system is good and that it will gain or gain the reputation. He won't be here. It will only be obtained, as Mrs Roblekov said, on the basis of totalitarian thought, where things cannot be talked about, where things are arranged under carpets, but if you are too loud, you can also get shot in the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to respond to some of the facts or criticisms of Mr Gorenak regarding the criticism of the position of the Desus Group. First of all, I would like to reiterate that we, too, are assessing that the justice system does not work as it should, but of course we are happy that improvements are showing and that things are actually being done in this direction, that procedures are being cut short and that citizens get to a solution. And I'd like to take a closer look at this. Today we are talking about recommendations on the state of human rights in judicial proceedings. I think it would be more necessary for us to talk today in the National Assembly about the very current problems of our economic situation, then the situation of our young generation, and our young people who finish education do not have jobs. About unemployment, which plagues many citizens of our country, about poverty, which is killing more and more families and taking away their hope for life. Then, after all, on the assistance we will provide to the flooded citizens, on regulating our rivers, on all the necessary things that we should. And respectable in the opposition, you are elected as members of the National Assembly and you have the same task as us, who are now in a position to adopt such laws that solve the problem that plagues our citizens, but not to deal with things that, as I said, are improving and, of course, our Minister has also made sure that he will make sure that irregularities and other matters that cause backlogs in justice are settled. So please, Mr. Gorenak, take this as an answer and we'll stop. We are constantly having a dialogue, always, what I say, it is wrong for you and I think that the opposition is also more constructive and help solve problems. Now, my views on the proposal for a recommendation. I believe that our branch, the legislative one, has already been said in the National Assembly today, should not make recommendations to the third branch of government. We know that we have these branches of government divided and that the judiciary is responsible for its work and that it is therefore not appropriate for us to use these methods so many times that we are not affected by them. We also know that any citizen who is in judicial proceedings who disagrees in any way with the work of the court, or anyone who has been violated by human rights in judicial proceedings, has the opportunity to complain, after all, against the highest authority — the Constitutional Court, where he receives legal protection for this, and that this is what must prevail primarily. Then there is something else I would like to say about this confidence of the citizens of the judiciary. The highest percentage of citizens' confidence in justice in Slovenia was published after the Eurobarometer survey in November 2013, 24%, we have already heard that. In doing so, it must be said that the measurements of the general public opinion are based on a certain number of respondents. These respondents are not necessarily involved in the proceedings, but they are randomly chosen citizens who express their opinions more or less after feeling, but also after some experience in the judicial system. Thus, such opinions are based on these assessments, i.e. those who are dissatisfied with the Court’s decision because it is not what they want, because if they are convicted, they are condemned for something they consider to be too high or that they have not done so and should be forgiven. Today it has also been said that one is simply because they are rejected. Thus, in the general public opinion, it is also a reflection of the attitude of the other branches of government towards the judiciary. Here I would like to point out that the content and manner of expressing criticism of justice therefore interferes with the sphere of contempt of justice and justice as a whole. This kind of attitude of some representatives of the executive and legislative branch of power towards the institutions of the third branch of power, that is, the judiciary, is also assessed in the Government's view of the proposal for this recommendation as one that does not reflect the situation in justice and is more due to an opinion in the general social climate, which, of course, is created by us. Therefore, this is also discussed in this recommendation that the European Commission's assessments are such as that our justices are not working properly and that the procedures are unacceptablely long-term. Here I must say that the European Commission has taken the data of the recommendations from an international study on the independence of the judiciary. The study was carried out by the Wind Economic Forum. He put our country in 91st place since 144th. However, it has been found that this assessment is incorrect, that the data are not updated and that, of course, this is not a reflection of the actual situation in our justice. The use of incorrect data by the World Bank was also discussed by the distinguished Mr. Strojin, representative of the Supreme Court, on the working body. The problem is that these data used then by the World Bank, which is preparing macroeconomic measures and credit ratings, are problematic because then these assessments are distorted. Of course, this is the way to oppose it. I think that our government should correct or transmit the requirement to use correct data. Well, if I may conclude. Of course, we need to work, or the courts need to work, and all the judicial institutions with it are worth it, and so is the prosecution, so that the quality of work can be improved, that judicial proceedings can be reduced and so on. In doing so, we, I think, Members of the National Assembly, who must adopt, first and foremost, quality legislation that will not change with any change of government, which will not then change by replacing any ruling political party. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The proposaler, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First of all, I am pleased that you already know that you are in the coalition. That's good progress. But look, Mrs. Popotat, one more thing, don't get carried away, be real to our people, especially those who elected you. Look, you're talking about how to deal with floods and these things where people get hurt, but I'm asking you why you're against these people who get hurt by the floods. In fact, yesterday we put two amendments to the €5 million flood theme and Mrs Popotat, you voted against it. So they were against this money going to the floods. Now you're here telling me how to deal with floods and not with the judiciary. Yes, we were dealing with this yesterday, and you voted against it. So you were against these people. That's one thing. Second. About poverty, and I don't know what you were talking about. Yeah, well, who's got an impact on it if it's not a coalition and a government? Who else? You said it was also an opposition responsibility. Bravo. In 2010, I don't think you were here yet, but those who are politically breathing the same way have political left blood, that's true. We've filed 200 laws. Two hundred laws. Do you know how many were accepted? Nothing. So don't talk nonsense. But the topic about banks is research in the banking system, and I don't know, I don't think it's a topic today. I think you've missed this a little bit. What a bad note you must have taken into your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go. Excuse me. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u36	First with regard to the amendment, Mr. Gorenak. You know the explanation behind the coalition's rejection of the opposition's amendment, and I don't want to hang now that I'm against those who are flooded and so on. You know that the Government has ensured that these matters are resolved, including by the Committee, the Home Committee has adopted certain positions and measures and will be thoroughly, thoroughly speaking, resolved and systematically resolved. And that amendment was, like we said yesterday, that voters would like it. Secondly, Mr Gorenak, I have said that the Desus Group invites you to participate in solving the problem that our country is now dealing with, but not to waste so much time on these matters on the state of justice. That's not right, and I don't think it's fair. Stop this attack and keep criticizing whatever the man says is wrong. That information I gave about the banks, but I read it in the material, and I didn't make it up, not talk to me like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u37	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popotat had a replica. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u38	There is something to be said, Mrs Popotat. You said help. Yeah, we helped. We've given two five million amendments, and the coalition with you has been against you. Why do you pretend you were against it, or maybe you were for it? You weren't. Let's keep moving. Before those with whom you took pictures before the elections, which are pensioners who have also elected you, but now you've "fucked" them, forgive the expression, cheat that we won't do so, we have to use a nice language. Why? The pensioners proposed to the National Assembly a law to change the electoral system. Now they send, pensioners mostly, those perforated sheets that just write their name and surname: You know, a Member, your debt? I've already got a whole bunch of them. You probably got them, too, I believe. Look, Mrs Porotat, I was in favour of a pensioner's proposal, my client was in favour of a pensioner's proposal. Why were you against it? Aren't your pensioners the ones you care about first? I think you have it because you also declare yourself that pensioners are your first concern. Why did you cheat on them now? Why did you reject their proposal? And I supported him. Mrs Porotat, have one face and walk around Parliament and the world with one face. But not to have two faces, one for people when a voice is needed, and then one for the National Assembly when you vote against those same people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm sorry I can't greet the Minister of Justice of the Mags in our midst. Goran Klemenčič, although we are talking today about the area he covers, the inefficiency of justice, how judges protect each other, how no one is ever responsible for anything, but still. On Monday, I asked the Minister of Justice a number of questions, which I did not get any concrete answer to. The questions were related to the reform of the judiciary, which is necessary. From some of the words that the minister said to her on Monday, I understood that he even agreed that the reform of justice was necessary, but I'm afraid he may not have meant it honestly, but that he said it just because it was heard in public. Because there are many people who have problems and problems with the judiciary. Why does the reform of justice need to be done? At the time, unfortunately, we did not do lustration, especially in the judicial system. That is why, of course, we have great problems today. I do not consent to rematching, revenge and so on, but I agree that democratic apostolics must be established in a democratic society. And the first thing that has to be democratic and act in accordance with the Constitution and laws is, of course, the judicial branch of power. The following is happening to us today, in the highest positions of both supreme judges and the President of the Supreme Court himself, are set up by people who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system. Let me illustrate this with one example. Madam Justice Vesna Zalji, who, for example, tried in the case of Patrio, was referring to people who fought against the previous regime, against the grave violation of human rights, but in the previous system the same judge, for example, condemned someone under the infamous 133rd Article of the Penal Code, the so-called verbal delicacy, only because he publicly criticized the party's authority. Recently, on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, we had invited guests, individuals who were severely violated by human rights in the previous system. Let me mention Mr Adem Demaçi, a Kosovo peacemaker, a great human rights fighter, the Sakharov Prize winner, the Amnesty International Prize winner. He spent 29 years in prison because he fought against the then regime of Titus and, of course, later. But, let's say, the coalition MPs didn't seem worthy to come to this committee and listen to this man of great spirit, the great intellectual, the man who was proposed for the Nobel Peace Prize. They didn't think it was worth it. That's what I'm worried about. And why am I talking about Mr. Adam Demaçi? Because he said something like this in one of the interviews: "If judges in the previous system have gravely violated human rights, they cannot operate in such high positions in the justice system." And that's a fact, really! And I don't understand how you coalition MPs don't realize that. This is important and healthy for a society healthy for democracy. We've already fought hard for it, this democracy, in 1991. But today we still have people in these key positions who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system. On Monday, I asked the Minister of Justice, among other things, how will he systematically or legally regulate the responsibility of judges when they violate human rights in judicial proceedings. Of course, Mr Minister did not answer that question. I expected him to answer me today, but he left us first. But he said something else today. He said that "independence comes responsibility." So, with independence, which undoubtedly is the judicial branch of power, responsibility comes. I agree with that, but no one is aware of these responsibilities in the judicial branch. At the very least, that these judges, as well as prosecutors, not all of us are clear, many of them are doing their job very well, but most of those who make some mistakes in the proceedings and so on are never sanctioned for these mistakes. Believe me, if the responsibility of these judges, when they commit violations of human rights in proceedings, were sanctioned, then every judge would think three times about what he is doing in the proceedings and the infringement would be significantly less. Let me say here what he said, say, the Attorney General recently or when Mrs Hilda's so-called disappearance occurred. He said in Odessa that "the prosecutors must be exempt from any liability." Prosecutors must be exempt from any liability. Prosecutors must be exempt from any liability. That's what the Attorney General said from this position of power. But let's look around Europe at what that looks like. When the case of Belgian pedophile Dutroux escaped from court, three ministers and a few judicial officers resigned in two hours. That's the difference. I recall that I told former Justice Minister Plitschani when this happened to Mrs Hilda Tobe, that it would be best for justice, for the reputation of justice and for my own integrity if he had given up then. And I'm sure of it today. This would show that we believe in some of the European standards that apply elsewhere, but we do not, because there are still people in their positions who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system. On Monday, I also asked the Minister whether he would initiate proceedings or give an initiative to relieve Branko Masleš of his office as President of the Supreme Court. And I didn't just ask that question because I don't know, I wouldn't raise sympathy, say, to Mr Branko Masleš, because it wouldn't be fair and it wouldn't be right, but I asked him that question because, in particular, in recent days, it's been shown that things don't work out in the Supreme Court as they should, and that it's actually chaos. We had a case where things got way ahead of time. No responsibility has been accepted as a result of this, no one has accepted responsibility. The judges themselves said, the judges themselves and that I will not speak up, Judge Lippai and Judge Birovo Rozman, both Supreme Judges said that in the Supreme Court there were amazing things that should not have happened. The judges themselves say that. It took one year and three months for the court to decide on the absolute priority of a case. Do you think that's normal? Of course, it's not normal, but it's political, because it was political, but it's not normal. Because if it worked in accordance with the laws and as it was written, then it could not have happened. Mr Branko Maslesha has violated human rights at least 14 times to continue. He's never been responsible for this, he's never been punished for it. However, Mr Branko Maslesha, because of this and, of course, probably because of certain matters of loyalty, and so on, which are drawn from the previous totalitarian regime, was, of course, rewarded for this. He became President of the Supreme Court. And today I'm listening from my coalition colleagues to deal with unnecessary things. Mrs Porotat, if we were dealing with these things at least 10 or 15 years ago, better 15 or more, then today we wouldn't be here where we are. For most things, including the financial and economic crisis or, in particular, this crisis is precisely because we have not put the system on its feet, such as the other countries that have emerged from this communist regime. Well, we didn't break up with it, and let's face it. And that's not saying anything, and we're not going to do anything here, I don't know that we're bored, and that's why we're talking about it, but because these are things that we didn't clear up when it was time. And today, the Slovenian Democratic Party has therefore made a recommendation which clearly shows, among other things, that confidence in the justice system in our country is the lowest compared to the rest of the European Union. It is similar with the effectiveness of justice. So I would ask the coalition Members, because I believe that the desire on your part is to act constructively in politics, to draw attention to matters that are necessary, to support this recommendation today. I am also convinced that the Minister of Justice is very well aware that this recommendation, which contains real data and true data, is essential for adoption today. This will be a step forward in improving the state of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Erika the Girl. Please. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members! In the proposal for a recommendation on the situation of the provision of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, the group of Members and Members is based on the assumption that 613 Chambers of Justice violated human rights and fundamental freedoms and 1705 Slovenian judges from 1999 to 2013. The problem is that this data comes from an unfinished study by Dr. Lovra Šturm. We have also heard many times today, and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in response to the survey, has stated that research is methodologically controversial and does not allow for an appropriate professional discussion or interpretation of data. There is a lack of placement of research data in a comparable context. However, the publicly available data differ from those mentioned in the survey. Therefore, calculations are also questionable. All the favourable complaints resolved shall be considered as a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but shall not distinguish how much they fall back on subjective judicial errors and on the lack of regulatory arrangements. The Slovenian judiciary has some problems with judicial backlogs, but it has problems with overloading most of the courts in Europe, as there are increasing numbers of people and legal entities. The Constitutional Court found certain infringements referred to in the survey, thus confirming that the Slovenian legal system works, not the other way around. A constitutional appeal is one of the legal remedies available to individuals when it exhausts legal remedies before regular courts. Regular legal remedies — opposition, appeal — and exceptional legal remedies, including the requirement to protect legality, are available before regular courts. Legal remedies provide for parties in the procedure to remedy infringements, since the very rule of law in democratic countries, including Slovenia, provides that false decisions may arise as a result of misinterpretation of the law or procedural infringements. Since the Slovenian legal order allows for the elimination of violations of human rights before regular courts and before the Constitutional Court by means of a constitutional complaint, the finding that the courts violated human rights is unnecessary, since the existence of such violations has already been established by the Constitutional Court and has also adopted an appropriate solution, i.e. a remedy. If the cases were interpreted in this way, then the violation of human rights would be any judgment which is returned from the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court to a lower level. If we were to bring an analogous transfer to the area of administrative or other law, any successful complaint would also constitute a violation of human rights, not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Franz Breznik, to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u44	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will talk about those facts, which are mainly justified by the case-law of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights and what the case-law of the Slovenian judiciary also says. I will not speak on purpose about the judgment against the President of the largest opposition party, Mr Janez Janša, because I believe that most of the best European global lawyers, which mean something in these countries, in particular the Slovenian people, have said their words about the judgment. I believe that they were not biased in this and that they were pursuing legal science as a whole. But I will talk first of all about the beginning, so that justice has a problem in itself, that is, in its beginning. A good month ago, the European Court of Justice of Naidin v Romania, a former member of the Romanian State Security Service of the former totalitarian State, the so-called Securitate, expressed a very principled opinion mainly in this case. So, this judicature made it clear that this man, who is not concerned with the Convention on Human Rights, was a member of the Securitate, a mass violation of human rights; in 1999, the Romanians adopted a law that does not allow people who cooperated with the Securitate to perform any public function. Mr. Naidin complained about all the distances. He also came to Strasbourg and the court dismissed this complaint. It was clear, therefore, that people who were once part of the secret services of former totalitarian countries could not perform public functions if a policy was decided in those countries. Well, with us, as far as we can see, politics has not decided. Let me finally, when I hear the debates about you new Members, somehow you're putting yourself on the sidelines of something bad, something that doesn't work well. I understand the former judge who is defending her colleague, but I will try to argue once again why I think that today's call for this meeting is necessary. So, this is a principled opinion from a month ago from Strasbourg. First, next time, a few months ago, we had one, two floors below in the lower room, one of the victims of the liquidation who survived one murder, that was Nikola Stedul. It was a murder planned by the Slovenian Udba, the Slovenian security state, on 20 October 1988, against Nikola Štedul, who was a Croatian intellectual, wrote for the newspaper, and sent two liquidators there. The first was Syndicate, the second was the infamous Arkan. Arkana was detained at the airport in Scotland, Sindicic tried to commit this murder, but he failed, six bullets hit Professor Nikola Štedul and survived. He was here, too, and look at the story. So the murder that failed, then the Udja took the so-called remedial measures, so what happens now if this Syndicate confesses anything. Of course, the then Yugoslav state, together with its foreign policy, immediately made an alibi for Sindić, unfortunately this alibi failed, they lied, and Mr Sindicic was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Mr Sindicic is now one of the main witnesses in the Munich trial against Perkovic and Mustastaj. So it's a trial against two of the former state security officials. Let me tell you what happened in Slovenia in 1988 when the murder failed, three members of the Maribor State Security Service carried out the so-called corrective measures of this unsuccessful murder. After all the documents we hold today, the State Security Service in Slovenia also had to immediately inform the Republic's leadership of the Central Committee. In 1988, he was president of the Central Committee – who? I think all the consciences who he was are the later president of the Slovenian state. All three members of the State Security Service, who have taken corrective action after a failed murder, are today — who? Mr Mohorko, lawyer in Celje, next, Zoran Toplak, Udbovec, current lawyer, lawyer in Maribor, third, colleague of the former judge Janez Žirovnik, judge of the District Court in Maribor, became judge in 2007. Dear colleagues, this is the first fact. Next fact. I also have documents, I'm going to be too long, about a judge in Murska Sobota, a former member of the State Security Service. To a judge in Cyprus, a former member of the State Security Service. Look at the new legal practice I got, the cover, Andrej Ferlinc, I think you all know him, SDV, code 20,000, former KOS member, that is, Military Security Intelligence. So all this says in Article 1, I told you what Naidin means against Romania, what it means to be the judge of the court in Strasbourg and what the situation in the Slovenian justice system is. If we are trying to get this whole thing together somehow and on the other hand we are trying to show the so-called Bordeaux Declaration, which we signed in 2009, how judges and prosecutors should operate in a democratic society. Let me just mention Article 1 of the Bordeaux Declaration: "It is in the interests of society that the rule of law is guaranteed by a fair, impartial and effective judicial system." Thus, Article 36 of this declaration states: "The action and conduct of state prosecutors and judges must not raise doubts about their objectivity and impartiality." 41. Article: "State prosecutors must refrain from public comments and statements in the media." And so on. Well, look, that doesn't hold anything. To continue judicata in Strasbourg in the last month, 7 November, Brlek v Slovenije, Faganel v Slovenije, Maselj v Slovenije, Petrovič v Slovenije, Puzin v Slovenije, Slovenian justice system does not see and eliminate violations of the convention, the victims are not allowed to break the convention. We lost again in respect of respect for human rights on 7 November, 13th famous judgment, which is very important, i.e. Kurić v. Slovenia, it would be a bountiful matter to say one minor offence, where literally one lawyer tried to show that in Slovenia, at the second stage, people had no legal protection, there were no principles of criminal law, at least two of the greatest principles that we have known for centuries in criminal law terminology. This is, the first principle, and the deeper pro reo and, the second principle that speaks, is the auditorium et alterera pars or you need to hear both sides of the medal or the other side. These are the facts that require us to convene a meeting today and that prevent these people from performing these functions. And there is no legal protection in Slovenia. Let me get on with it. With regard to the number of convictions per capita for human rights violations before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in third place, only Turkey and Russia are worse among the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Slovenia has received more than 277 convictions, and only two convictions are still publicly mentioned in the media. More than once, Slovenia has also been convicted of violating the prohibition of torture, which is the most shameful sentence the country can face. Let me get on with it. According to the number of outstanding judgments of the Court, Slovenia is far from the worst of all Member States of the Council of Europe. Slovenia did not comply with more than 240 judgments of this court, which it was convicted of. Lukend's ruling is a very important legal argument that the court has put forward. It even stated that anyone who goes to Slovenia to seek justice risks being violated by human rights, so the court said that it was not individual cases, but a violation of the rights in judicial proceedings due to the duration of the trial, a systemic error. It's a total systemic failure. Thus, among the 47 members of the Council of Europe organisation, Slovenia is the worst in the judicial protection of the fundamental human rights guaranteed. The following argument is also interesting data that the Courts of the European Union in Luxembourg on previous issues, that is, when a domestic judge finds himself in a dilemma, whether national law is in line with European law and asks the EU court what to do, Slovenia is last among all Member States of the European Union. From 2004 to today, our judges in Luxembourg have only sent 12 preliminary questions. In Germany and other countries there are some 10 each day, a few 10 each day, passed by Germany. So, there are only two options – whether our judges are already clear and far from being the best among the judges of all Member States or Slovenian judges ignore that European law also applies in Slovenia and is therefore likely to be a systemic infringement. This is a few of my arguments, which is why I believe that such discussions are necessary. It is not our intention to raise the manure through the full justice system, it is because the judicial system is cleared because in 20 years this judicial system cannot itself be cleared, some measures are needed. Look, I know some very high-quality and good judges myself, I know some very high-quality, good prosecutors, and just because of their intention to have such people come to the highest positions in the judicial branch of government in the future, the purpose of calling such a meeting. What I said a little while ago, that's all there is to it. And if such people come into environments that are not good, that are experienced by people who have been part of this system in totalitarianism, that have committed mass violations of human rights, that were part of a criminal organization like the State Security Service, of course, all such judges and prosecutors coming into such a system fall into some environment, and that environment then destroys such individuals and, of course, the complete whole can never be good, never quality, and can never function in accordance with democratic standards, but in particular with the standards of civilized countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! I cannot go past not responding to words or manipulation by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Again, as always, she shaved on Patricia's judgment and said that it was only for our president. Excuse me. Who signed the contract with Patrio? Your President Karl Erjavec. He was forgiven in court. And Karl Erjavec is the one who declared that John Janša and Patrio had nothing. It's also about running a demagogy about the flood. Yesterday, the Slovenian Democratic Party could confirm, vote in favour of the amendment that EUR 5 million is earmarked for watercourses and flood rehabilitation and voted against again. And I keep hearing from Desus here how you are for young people, how you are for the economy. Excuse me, since 1997, with the exception of the Bajuk government, you have been in the government, so I think that you are the last one here who can talk about what you have done for young people, for the economy or who can talk about not doing anything about it and that it is necessary to focus on it in the future. We have democracy, we have three branches of power. Not only does the judiciary have to be a separate branch of power, but it is particularly important that it is absolutely independent of the other two. Commenting on the verdicts. Why not? In America, which we have as an example of democracy in the world, they are constantly folding before the courts and commenting on judgments. Why can we comment and express criticism at the expense of the first and second branches of government and not at the expense of the third branches of government? You were talking about the criminal liability of the judges. Since 2007, there has been an article in the Code of Penalties which states that a judge may be convicted of a criminal offence. Apparently it's just a dead letter on paper. I do not agree that the judges are the ones most supervised and under scrutiny. I think that we are Members, because if the mandate is as it should be, we go to the elections every four years and we weigh and give it to us, the people who are constantly following us, an assessment of how pleased they were with our work. Doubt Storm's legitimacy. You have the right to do so, but on the other hand, when Janša was deposed, you referred to some opinion of some lawyers who are politically motivated. At that time, there was no doubt about legitimacy. Double criteria again. And I'm not going to talk about Sturm's research, but I'm just going to mention the report of the World Economic Forum. This has placed us in 91st place in view of the impartial trial and transparency of the proceedings. So we agreed to Qatar, Uruguay, Oman, Mauritius, Rwanda, Botswana, Kuwait, Namibia, China, Georgia, Pakistan, Macedonia, Senegal, Iran, Montenegro. We really agreed on the very tail of the states. Ladies and gentlemen, let us ask what Slovenian justice has done so far in 23 years. Slovenian justice has not been able to condemn any former director or agent of the Udba. In 23 years, Slovenian justice has not been able to exclude those who, in the previous regime, have violated human rights. In 23 years, Slovenian justice was unable to condemn any who issued Slovenia in 1991 by helping to disarm the Slovenian Territorial Defence. In 23 years, Slovenian justice was unable to condemn any who attacked a newly born country in 1991. And in 23 years, Slovenian justice has not been able to convict a single culprit for a multibillion-dollar hole in Slovenian state banks. In 23 years the Slovenian judiciary was unable to dissolve the former JLA for Slovenia's enemy army and its victims have never been declared victims. Former Yugoslav Army officers have been pardoned, and we're closing down the independents! The judiciary sentenced 11 years in prison to a Croatian citizen who threatened to assassinate Borut Pahor. And that's right. At the same time, the threat of death to John Janša, foretold by a police officer, is outdated and the judge is even rewarded for his work. In 1988 hundreds of citizens of Rogatca were hit by thousands of former German cable television brands. It was a clean case of fraud, and the case in the courts is outdated. Thousands of workers in bankruptcy proceedings are left without a single cent and bankruptcy managers are richly rewarded. Judges even overlook that they have been granted an advance, and bankruptcy managers put hundreds of thousands of euros in their pockets. This case was Videm Krško. Jankovic believes that in court he will be acquitted of all charges for all suspected crimes only because he was always against Janez Janša. It's impossible, but that's what's gonna happen. The President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleš, attacked Janez Janš on Slovenian legal days in Podčetrtek and announced a total war. And then such a judge, not only is he the President of the Supreme Court, but he even decides this case. This violates the freedom of political participation when he also spoke against Borut Pahor, who could not accept it. We can monitor protests every day in court. But I know what's bothering you. I invite you to come and see. It's not just about John Jansha. It went wider. This is where people who are not members, not sympathizers of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and explain their problems they have had, their experiences with justice. It's totally unpolitical. I think people like that need to be listened to. That's where the big transparency comes in. As a young citizen, it is unclear to me how someone who is in the past regime might be interested in which side he was on. On both sides, we know what was going on. But the saddest part is that I have to talk about this in the Slovenian Parliament at 24 years 2014 because we were not or were unable to clear history long ago. I can't imagine where Germany would be today if the Germans were still talking about who was somewhere in the third paradise. I don't care how some people who have committed eclectic human rights violations can perform such important functions in the country today. When you say so, we leave the judiciary and then we end all the committees and we have only the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Economy, and we will not. Here we hear, some of you are saying that we prefer to devote ourselves to privatisation, to privatization. If we were serious, we got 150 Chinese in the country today, they came with money to buy something, they'd go to Jozet Pučnik Airport yesterday and block them so they wouldn't be able to get in. Let us stop, and such topics must be, as far as justice is concerned, the right thing to do is to talk, because, after all, justice is the one that has an important impact on the lives of our citizens and citizens. I hope this is where I show you when the candidates for the Supreme Courts were. I have here the number of professional articles: 83, 41, 23, 30. And someone wrote five. And the one who wrote 5 was Branko Maslesha, who is today the President of the Supreme Court. Based on his résumé, I didn't know what it meant a while ago when you were, I believe, some of you sitting here called out a "Mamula, go home" password in 1988. Today I see something else in court, it says "Malesha, go home." On the basis of his CV and on the basis of everything that is happening here in Slovenia, I am not surprised at this inscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you. The word is Tomaž Gantar. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u48	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I am sorry that this debate is taking place today mainly in the light or shadow of this case of the judgment of Patrio. I think that, despite all of us, we should all be concerned to some extent that the confidence of the public in the justice system is at a rather low level. We should deal with a number of reasons why this is possible and why it happened. Of course, the picture is not black and white, as already mentioned by the Justice Minister. It would be very easy to say that the justice system is catastrophic, biased, that judges cross-crossing everything on average violate human rights, work against the constitution. However, this is a theory that may even be deliberate and thus relativizes, of course, all the problems that actually exist in justice. And they exist as they do in all other areas that we deal with practically every day, whether it be health, economy or any other. In fact, the most important thing is to come to conclusions about why this mistrust is so great. There is no doubt that there are many reasons. On the one hand, it is likely that those involved in judicial backlogs are these organizational problems that we face again in most areas. It's purely operational. And this is also an area where I believe that the justice system itself has in the past, in these years, made a lot of moves and steps, which we have also heard about on the Committee on Justice and which have personally convinced me that it is working towards improving the situation and, last but not least, in this area of greater confidence in the justice system. Then the next question, which probably raises a lot of doubts in the public as well, is the diametric opposite of the opinions and opinions of legal experts that we can read about practically every day. Now, of course, I don't know whether we actually have such legislation that it allows for interpretation, which is often diametrically opposite in individual cases, or whether on the other hand there is a reason for bias in decision-making in such a way or in a different way. But there are doubts that arise, and I would hardly say or agree to the thesis that just all legal experts are so politically polarized that we can only place them on the basis of the debate always and only on the left or on the right side at the moment they open their mouths. I believe that there are also, in fact, experts who are primarily in favour of the professional and reputation of justice. Last but not least, I think that it has a very important impact on confidence in justice, in particular many receptive cases, which we hear and read about daily in newspapers and most often relate to economic crime, to individuals who are in one way or another connected with politics, or to politics itself. Doubts are often considerable here. However, there is also a point at which comments are usually initiated that it is not appropriate to comment on the decisions of the courts adopted in one instance or another. And here I think that the point where justice is not sufficiently substantiated or is not sufficiently reasoned against the perceptions that are emerging. I think that the arrogant rejection of arguments, a claim that does the justice itself harm, is unnecessary enough in just a small number of cases. And that there is only a need and a meaningful increase in the sensibility of those who respond to the arguments that arise. For these are those who are likely to raise great doubts about the fairness of the trial, especially in these cases. I think it's those cases that cause the greatest public doubts and probably even the profession. Therefore, once again, I regret that this debate comes out mainly in a way that shows black and white. Despite the fact that your colleagues on the other hand said that this had nothing to do with the Patrio trial, this is at least mentioned in most of your discussions. In this context, I believe it is difficult to discuss in a constructive manner the real problems and, above all, the search for solutions. They know that in the end it turns out that on just two different fields, someone claims on the one hand that everything is wrong, the other claims otherwise that everything is wonderful, but the truth is as always, as the minister himself has said, somewhere in between. The situation is not black or white, but it is probably gray that, of course, it also changes for the better. And that is what I think such discussions should be intended for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Let me begin with the conclusion of my colleague Gantar when he said that these were probably the reasons why your colleagues on the other side speak as you say. In these debates, the core of the whole problem lies. Colleagues on the other side. We're legislators here. And if legislators say protection of rights, fundamental human rights as colleagues on the other hand, then we can clearly know why we have this problem. We're all on the same side here. We are all here on the same side of protecting the rule of law. But as colleagues behind me, not on the other hand, not on the same side, my colleagues previously presented behind me, a whole series of judgments, a series of cases and a series of decisions by higher courts outside the Republic of Slovenia confirmed that something was seriously wrong with Slovenian justice. At the end of June 2014, the Chinese delegation addressed the President of the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice to examine the reform processes in the field of the Slovenian judiciary. The media reported that a few months later, on October 23rd, the Chinese delegation adopted a major reform of the Chinese judiciary, the judicial system and the address at the same time was, I quote, "China's justice from the clutches of the party in the grip of the party". Now I don't know why they stopped at our courthouse. But this is because he became President of the Supreme Court, as colleague Mahnic had previously presented, someone who has received at least international publications or for some other reason. I don't want to find out or look for meaning here, but it's interesting to note here that the spoils have taken on the independence of the judiciary — now, pay attention! – according to the socialist rule of law. If I change this sentence or update it into a Slovenian political discourse, I could therefore read something like this: The Coalition advocated the independence of the judiciary in accordance with Forum 21. And this is the main issue of the debate on the judiciary. Because it's not about protecting human rights in general, it's about operating human rights according to a story. Especially because those who defend justice in all the violations found do not defend justice and those well-functioning judges, but defend the preservation of the status quo. The situation in the Slovenian judiciary has deteriorated in some way, as the public debate has also begun to take place more frequently and the perception of the functioning of the judiciary and the poor functioning of the judiciary has increased significantly. And that's good, not bad. Now we are in a strange story, when on the one hand confidence in justice is falling, and on the other hand we explain how this falling reputation of the judiciary needs to be addressed by giving them additional resources. You just accepted an extra 15 million for the court's operation yesterday. The most interesting, the biggest apologists in the judiciary are those who are to a large extent responsible for this situation, or those who have family ties to the judiciary, the law firm and so on and then defend this situation for a clear reason. At the outset, the colleague Muršič presented the position of the Committee, in which she said that the Government had given extensive reasons for the SDS Group's request to convene the meeting. Let me give you just two exposed baselines, czech, public research. It contradicted Eurostat's findings and cited a company's study, Valicon, as being more merciless. Eurostat is the most relevant European public opinion mechanism. And that the Ministry of Justice for the purpose of neutralisation or doubting decisions or the results of the Eurobarometer indicate a public survey that has been carried out on the Internet, an online survey, but listen, it is unworthy of this assembly. The position of colleague Popotat, that individuals who did not necessarily have relations or contacts with the judiciary were involved in Eurostat's analysis and that it is therefore irrelevant, exactly confirms the missibility of perception of such research. If Eurostat were to do research among those who had contact with justice, this mistrust would be significantly greater. About one or two percent of those privileged who enjoy another part of this rule of law would move, that is, the higher legal state. We have heard an even greater smile of Eurostat's public opinion polls from the mouth of our colleague Popot. She said, "Our government should correct the use of this data." So since the results are not correct, let us correct the use of this data. Once again, I will say what has been said about the reform of the judiciary of the Communist Party. The plenary has committed itself to the independence of the judiciary in accordance with the socialist rule of law. This is the kind of ideology we have in our understanding of justice here. Second, an overview of the situation in the field of EU justice. One very extensive survey and three sides of the government's response is dedicated to explaining to Members and the public the missing methodological origins of this study. Three pages. Just because the European Commission has set up a mirror for the judiciary and because it is mirrored to those who are shaping the reputation and work of the judiciary, it does not seem reasonable or right, they have come to determine what the starting points are. In this opinion they even write, quote in other words, "the Court of the Republic of Slovenia is nothing special within Europe". I agree here, yes. It's nothing special. What does it mean that the goal of this ruling coalition, that the judiciary is nothing special or that our judiciary is an example to our citizens and that our judiciary is one that will raise the faith of citizens in a better future? And if I refer to that public opinion poll that you want to deny Eurostat's views or findings. See, on that study was the question, do you think things are going better in Slovenian society, worse, or are they on the same page? 61% said they were going worse. And the judiciary is an important factor that affects such awareness. This position of the Government is also circumscribed by the opinion of respectable colleague Šturm, former constitutional lawyer who found that in more than 600 cases the judiciary violated human rights. And again, not to answer what kind of measures will be taken, but we've been listening here to the evidence of the methodology. All warnings, either from the point of view of European institutions or international institutions or from the point of view of respected lawyers, are not dealt with here at all. We say mistakes are in the methodology. Like an ostrich who puts his head in the sand so that he doesn't have to see eclectic cases of violations of constitutional human rights. And at the request of the parliamentary group, what did the Government say to introduce an independent investigation or an analysis of the situation in the field of human rights? Again, I quote: "Let us assume that in this part there is a proposal to determine the number of offenders by judges, not only an unjustified call for lustration, but also an attempt to intimidate the entire judiciary. The Ministry of Justice, which speaks of the need to take responsibility, does not want to take responsibility for making a credible, broad-based review of the protection of human rights under individual judgments in Slovenia, because it says that this is an unjustified call for lustration. At the same time, Mrs Muršič's colleague, when she presented the Committee's opinion earlier, said that the government had already stated in this opinion that it was not true that there was no lustration in 1994 when the new law on judicial service was in force, thus indirectly that it was lustration. If in 1994 it was totally acceptable for the parties and for the policy of Slovenia that the lustration was therefore carried out, if I so understand the opinion of the Government and if I so understand the opinion of the colleague Muršičeva, then why there can't be reasons for the lustration 2.0 in 2014. Because obviously the 1.0 lustration wasn't successful. And what has changed that suddenly lustration is no longer appropriate? And that lustration you're referring to in 1994, see, in a government decision, it says that the Justice Department and the Judicial Council had a chance to do it, and no one here complained. The President or the Minister of Justice was a prominent representative of the LDS. This prominent representative of the LDS also sat in the Council of Justice. Probably because of this, the 1.0 lustration was not as successful as it should have been, and then there would be no need for such a debate here. This blinding of the judiciary’s problem continues. Here I have in my hands the position of the Government or the starting point for the participation of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union for General Affairs, which was at the beginning of this week. 4 countries, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark and Finland have launched an initiative for enhanced cooperation in the field of justice, with proposals addressed to the European Commission for the establishment of a mechanism to monitor the functioning of the rule of law. See, if it is as fine as the Minister had previously presented, the Minister of Justice would probably be the first to add his initiative to this monitoring initiative, the mechanism for monitoring the functioning of the rule of law. But I don't see these countries of Slovenia among these proponents here. Slovenia’s position was that we would agree to this, but that we would spread the legal basis for such control, but not. I quote from the representative of the Ministry of Justice at that meeting, "because we are against financial sanctions, because we could be hit." See, the judiciary does not want enhanced cooperation, it does not want the European Commission's control of the justice system because they fear financial sanctions for obvious non-action, and it is here that they explain that everything is fine. These two stories somehow don't go together. Minister Klemenčič here in front of us for the pay phone has begun his contribution vehemently, namely that he has listened to the same mass for the fifth time, six times. And then he left this hall. Why is he listening to this mass for the fifth time? Simply because it wasn't done enough in this area. If we have to go with these questions to the Minister here to listen to this speaker six times, seven times, I'll be happy to listen to him. While I hope that he will take his time and follow the whole debate. But not because I want to talk about it, but because I wish I didn't have to talk about it. The coalition by denying the debate on this, with the desire to stifle the debate on this, only achieves that this is being discussed more and more. You know, if it's wrong, if the water's boiling and you put a cap on that pot, sooner or later it'll take the cap. It is much better, not least, that you also have in the coalition contract, to solve problems, to talk about it, to open it up, to have relevant interlocutors, that is, the minister, for a long and broad period of time, to identify systemic solutions and then to support these solutions. Otherwise, the debate will continue in this spirit, as previously started by colleague Gantar, we think so on those sides, and we think so on this side. However, the victims are citizens who are more disappointed with the justice system every day. I doubt that anyone is in the interest of this Chamber that the poor functioning of the judicial system continues. Last but not least, this is our task to do and to improve the state's subsystems. And the judiciary is one of the most important subsystems. If you're looking at an hour, my debate is now closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you. Reploco wants Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. My colleague Logar, of course, spread the theory on the wrong assumption of my discussion. Probably on the basis of your thoughts about one side or the other. If you like it better, I can say another time, I don't know, on the west side or some other side, and the fact is, you're sitting on the opposite side. So no big politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you. The word is Andrei Chush. Get Benedict Kopmeyer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry, nice greeting! I would like to say on my own that I support this debate today. During the final phase of the last period, we have been able to see many cases in public that are in mockery of the legal state, the population of Slovenia, which should be more than a concern as representatives of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the Mira Cerar coalition has rejected and accepted the recommendations we have proposed in the SDS Group that things are improving and that the situation in Slovenian justice is good. I suggest that you may as well decide today that we have the best economic minister, even though we do not have one. But you're right, who we are, that we hope to speak differently. The European Commission already warned last March that the situation in Slovenian justice is poor. In fact, we are on the very tail of EU members and I do not think that this can be proud of us. In the final stage, in my opinion, justice is one of the key elements in helping to tackle the crisis. Where the rule of law is regulated, there is a good business environment, there they no longer face an economic crisis and blame no one else. The ones who cooked it are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are Given that we are yet another rare country in the EU facing the crisis, this in itself says enough that the situation in justice is not appropriate. And it is right that we are also discussing this in the National Assembly. It is also alarming that Slovenia devotes €87 per capita to the functioning of the justice system, while the EU average is €42. We have an inappropriately expensive justice system, and I think we should start talking about the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary and the entire justice system. How many millions of euros have we already paid to Brussels for delays due to time delays? But who's going to pay these millions? Not the judges. They'll be paid by taxpayers and taxpayers. And I was talking yesterday about responsibility in high school. No one's answering. Not to mention responsibility in Slovenian justice. These millions that we will pay to Brussels for delays will be paid by us. Has anyone lost their job yet? Has anyone been called in yet? No, no, no. You know, there's a lot of people in Slovenia who are responsible for their actions. An ordinary employee responds, the entrepreneur responds. But I can't help feeling that some are today protected as a nomadic bear. We have cases where they take someone's house because they don't pay 100 euros in bills, and some people have proven to steal millions, and then they're forgiven for their mistakes in the trials. And today they're walking down the street and they think we're crazy again. Your Honor! That's not normal. This needs to be fixed. But it is obvious that this is not in the interest of both the Mir Cerar coalition and Minister Klemenčič. I would also add that we have almost once more judges per hundred thousand inhabitants, as is the EU average. And today it is said that savings must be saved. I'm right behind it if we all make the same contribution to saving. Unfortunately, some are protected, they can afford anything, and others will pay a little more because they are used to walking on them. From 1999 to 2013, 613 Slovenian courts violated human rights. And when Mr Miro Cerar, ethics, morals, new policy, standards, we should start dealing with this right away. But no. We're dealing with each other because we don't even know how to find the Minister of Economy. People are disappointed in the functioning of the justice system. I was talking about the delays. Not to mention expensive fees and slowness and bureaucracy of Slovenian justice. And here, allow me to quote Dr. Klemna Jaklič, who teaches at Harvard: "Over the years of my study abroad and studying similar legal systems, I have observed hundreds of measures taken by other countries to bring order into their legal country. But almost none of these measures have been seen in the public discourse in our country." I think he just hit this problem, and it saddens me that the government isn't ready to do anything either. When I listened today to the posters of the Peace Cerar coalition members, how can we spend more time and talk about anti-crisis measures – respectable, please start working, let us put in some laws that will go for the benefit of people, rurals, young people, including the old ones, especially the economies! But you haven't done anything until today because you're dealing with yourself. And it is justified to fear that this government will be even worse than the government of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Ksenia Root Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! Since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna have to get my thinking straight. Today, there is much talk about ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. A number of harsh words and harsh sentences have been handed down, leading somehow to the grading of the judicial branch of power, diminishing the reputation of the judiciary, and thus undermining people’s confidence in a just trial and the rule of law. In a situation where people are already so dissatisfied with the situation in the country, they should build together and not break the established foundations. The search for constructive solutions for all three branches of government is intended to lead to improvements in the situation in the country, strengthening economic and economic growth, restoring respect and confidence in the judiciary, the efficiency and speed of the conduct of judicial proceedings, eliminating doubts about bias and ensuring an independent and responsible judiciary. I also presented this position because, as a judge of the jury in one of the district courts, I have never observed circumstances that could be considered a category of violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is difficult for me, but I must point out that after three hours, the Government has not commented on any statement, one statement by any of the Members, not by the opposition or by the coalition. The government has probably announced 45 minutes of time in order to establish communication in the National Assembly, to discuss and determine whether the issues we are talking about are being discussed or not on the table. But unfortunately, the government announces time and then the highest representatives of the government come to the National Assembly just to sit down. I suggest you call on the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to make an effort to comment on the allegations, statements, views or whatever has been made so far. I don't think it's too bad that someone from the Government who has announced relatively much time on the other hand and is a partner in this communication has responded to any claim, explained or made other arguments, other points for these matters. I regret that, in practice, we have to draw attention to the same things at all the substantive points of the agenda that we have had in this mandate, and that it should be to the budget, to this case of the judiciary, to any other matter that has been on the agenda of this call by the National Assembly. Nothing, an announcement of time, and it goes empty. No meaningful answers. And it will be difficult for anyone to convince me at this point in the agenda that the judiciary is doing well, and that the Ministry is doing well if there is no claim, no information, no answer to any position. It's like the behavior of someone who has a synecura, comes to work and leaves work. The only thing to watch out for in this ministry is that you do not appear too high or too short a period of time. I propose that the Secretary of State make an effort to respond to this part of the discussions that have been held. Madam President, I suggest you ask her nicely, because I cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. I didn't see the government's wish to speak now. The word has magic. Xenia Root Kramar. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, I cannot pass on the fact today, I absolutely do not accept such a debate and do not support it, not at all in the part where it comes to insults to the profession and the qualifications acquired by certain individuals, which I have been listening to since nine o'clock in the future. That's how I strongly object to it. And also to communicate when you talk about the confidentiality of the data and at the same time state the names and surnames of the list. And that's how you name the persons involved in the various court proceedings. I don't think that's acceptable. It's just a little bit of a ruse. You say this, we will not talk about names and surnames, but at the same time, Mr Gorenjak, give your names and surnames immediately. I don't think that's right. And there's one more thing. I think that today's debate that we are having here, I believe that this is one of our tasks to discuss, but I think it is at the same time the abuse of this respected institution, and above all the manipulation and deception of the public, which we are reporting things that I do not think are appropriate. Today's implementation is also intended, this is my assessment, the threat to the rule of law and the stability of state regulation and, above all, an unjustified and unjustifiable attack on justice and justice, which is, of course, unacceptable and unacceptable. The recommendations under consideration are inadequate, mildly speaking, and also unnecessary. If we looked at it in detail, we would see that the legislative and legislative arrangements are already tightly regulating and also laying down mechanisms for assessing both quality and for assessing the responsibilities of judges. Nor can these recommendations be the basis for an expert discussion, because if we look at the statistics that colleagues have already mentioned today, we see that these are somehow sidelined or compared with other European countries or other Member States. The situation in the field of justice is indeed improving and confidence is rising, although we are recording negative public opinion, but it must be said that it has been enormously done to make positive progress in the area of the judiciary. It is true, however, that much remains to be done mainly in the area of the unification of case law and the pro-active communication of the judiciary within and outside. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to respect the Code of Fine Conduct and proper conduct in the following implementations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak wanted the text. Mr. Beznik, the replica. We give him the advantage of the rules of procedure. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me just say, the colleague who discussed it before me said that we were all SDS Members in general. I would like another answer where I was generalising, and I would also like a possible reply from the Secretary of State. So I was talking about [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I was talking about incestuous cases of some who were currently acting as a judge and were active participants in the State Security Service, which the Supreme Court said was a criminal organisation [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Desus, I'm afraid I don't know how to write anymore. I'll say, Mr. Desus, he's read such a beautiful report. It was very beautifully written. But I heard it back in 2009, but then Mr. Willie Rezman read it. Look, this is ridiculous. It's really funny. You're reading some old reports to make time go away – or what? Let's say something substantive! Mrs. Roots, if I'm not mistaken, but no, yes, that's a really nice attitude, and that's a really important thing. But look, you're saying I've listed names and surnames. Yeah, because I was just quoting them from documents that were published publicly. But now you think that what's published publicly, I'm not allowed to quote names and surnames? On the basis of what law, what moral principles? I'm not committed to the SMC principle. Maybe you have those principles. An unfair assault on justice. I'm great! I don't know, maybe you worked in justice, maybe you're counting on working in justice, I don't know. I understood Mrs Kociprovo's always talking about unfair attacks on justice because she knew that she would be out in the next term and that she would go to court to work. And that's what happened. All that we've been saying is that someone put 160,000 euros in their pocket because the judge made a mistake – is this an attack on justice? I think this is your attack on the workers of Vidma-Krsko, who paid this gentleman 160 thousand euros. This isn't an assault on justice. I cited the decision of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, which said that the husband had received 160,000 euros too. Now, if you think this is an attack on justice, I'm informing you that I think this is an attack on the workers of Vidma-Krsko, as an example. You are saying that our justices are listed alongside other countries of the European Union. I have not heard that China, Singapore, Uruguay, Sri Lanka, Rwanda would be members of the European Union. Maybe it's some new information, but I'm not getting along. Our country is worse in the area of the independence of justice than all these countries, and you say it falls apart. When you spoke of responsibility, it was properly arranged. I don't have that responsibility in court here, but I have it on my computer here, and I'll tell you the next thing about responsibility. Look, I'm going to compare Italy, Austria, Germany and Slovenia. In Slovenia, the disciplinary responsibility of judges and prosecutors is regulated. Slovenia has four to six disciplinary procedures at the annual level. The reasons why a judge can appear before a disciplinary court or a disciplinary procedure are also given. The judge may receive a notice, may obtain a suspension of progress, a reduction of wages up to 20% by one year, a transfer to another court and similar matters. It's a similar story to the D.A.'s. As far as Slovenia is concerned, Article 134 of the Constitution provides for the immunity of judges. So any proceedings against the judge have been suspended. And as a rule of law, you'll see, those who are new to us when they come to us for confirmation of immunity to the judges will also use it for being sued by a citizen. Like because of a border dispute. So the judge said, "No, immunity." And this national council usually confirms it. 26. Article 26 of the Constitution also speaks to us about compensation for damage. Everyone shall be entitled to compensation for damage if it has been caused to him by the actions of the State authorities. In Slovenia this does not apply to judges but to prosecutors because in Slovenia the system is regulated so that judges and prosecutors are not responsible for their conduct. They are not materially responsible for their actions, which is not true – of course, the lady has left – which is not true for some other countries. For example, Austria, Germany knows the cases where the judge is materially, I stress, materially responsible for his conduct at the time of his service, that is, he was judging, even in retirement. And the state may deduct up to 30% of his pension if he is found to have broken the laws in the course of his service, he did not judge in accordance with the law, etc. This is not in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have a system whereby an individual can receive compensation but is paid by taxpayers. But it's paid by taxpayers. However, if we go to a number of numbers, it must be made clear that in Austria, for example, this civil liability of judges is also regulated by law. Of course, Mrs Murgel would say that we also have a member of the Penal Code, which speaks of the so-called "wrong trial", that is, the wrong trial. But this article is an ornament in Slovenia, like a chrysanthemum at some grave on November 1st. It's a ornament. No one ever used this article because "the crows don't turn off their eyes." And the judges won't judge the judges. Except in some special cases, like he was celic years ago. In Austria, if I go to a few more numbers to see responsibility in justice, that is to say, determination of responsibility. The number of sanctions imposed against judges and prosecutors refers to 2010 – Austria 26, Italy 51, Germany 25, Slovenia 1. Thus, our work is excellent against the Germans, because the German judges were 25 in the proceedings, the Italians were 51, the Austrian 26 and we had one. You won't believe where he went. He wasn't being punished. He went to the lawyers. Let's move on. As far as prosecutors are concerned, Austria has not been punished this year, Italy 15, Germany 4, Slovenia 2. As regards other cases, disciplinary proceedings and sentences imposed on 100,000 judges, because in the previous data you could tell me, yes, because there are also more German judges. Yeah, it's true. But here we have information on the penalties of thousands of judges and prosecutors in other countries. In Austria 22, in Italy 68, in Germany 55, I say a hundred thousand, in Slovenia is 1. Where'd he go? Among the lawyers. Let's move on. Prosecutors, introduced procedures, Austria zero, Italy 24, Germany 26, Slovenia 2. Let's move on. Sanctions imposed on judges, Austria 26, Italy 51, Germany 25, Slovenia1. So that's how it is with responsibility. A few more numbers. Sanctions imposed on prosecutors, 15 in Italy, 4 in Germany, 2 in Slovenia. The number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, Austria has 22, Italy 11, Germany 24 and we have 50. That's very interesting information. Another information, the number of prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, Austria 2.6; Italy 3.8; Germany 6.2; and we 9. And we have nine prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants. So a man would say 3 times more than in Austria, 2.5 times more than in Italy and once more than in Germany. Approximately. But that's not even a problem. What these people do, we need to know. What is their effectiveness, then, what do they do? The number of cases, the files he gets to solve the individual prosecutor, is as follows. In Austria 2 000 821, in Italy a thousand 317 cases, in Germany 967 cases. In Slovenia – 519 cases. Um, 519. It is said that 6 times less belongs, 6 times fewer cases are received by the Prosecutor in Slovenia than in Austria. What do these people do? As you know, the D.A.'s gonna write down the indictments or close one thing because they're not gonna prosecute. So, two types of acts do. Either it's an indictment or they say it's not a crime. So what is the effectiveness of these prosecutors? In Austria, the prosecutor writes 353 such acts a year. If we simplify things a little bit, we'd say, every day of one, and Saturdays and Sundays are included. In Italy, 257, in Germany, it is already less effective, 234. What about the Slovenian prosecutor? You won't believe it – 71. And now you're talking, the lady spoke earlier about how responsibility in the judicial system is regulated. Yeah, it's not arranged. It's absolutely out of order! And before that, something was said that these were assaults on justice. Ladies and gentlemen, when the first Member is convicted, I propose that we take the decision that this is an attack on Members. Is that right? Why not? That's appropriate to what you're saying about us attacking justice. That's exactly what this is. The division of power is perfectly clear. We adopt laws, we love judges, the government enforces them, and the courts judge. We have no right to judge, the right of trial is there. They have no right to legislate, this right is here. But law enforcement is on the government. You all know that people protest before the government, as many times as you want, on the right side more, on the left side less. This is also a characteristic of Slovenia. They are also protesting in front of parliament, throwing stones, eggs, I don't know what's going on in Parliament, and you're saying it's not allowed in front of the court. Why not? Why not? Until recently, it has been considered that no demonstration is allowed before the judicial palace. And one judge said about those people who were there, too, on June 5th last year, that "you're North Koreans". So the judge doesn't think you're allowed to be there. Why is it allowed to be here? Then let us ban demonstrations before Parliament and before the government. In fact, all three branches of power are equal. And then let us take another decision now, let us say that it is forbidden to criticize Members or Ministers. Why can't we accept that? If Shinfat is allowed to criticize Members – what it is. In my opinion, however, it is permissible to criticize the ministers, the Prime Minister and so on, and so on, to tell me, by what logic it would not be allowed to criticize the judges. What are these sacred cows or what? Look, they hide so much under the coat of independence, forgive the expression, I'm going to say pigs or so many irregularities, that now so many have come out and the people see them. You know, that's the problem. What are they doing? They under the cloak of independence, are we independent, come to work or not — is this a matter of independence? Do they go to the market for a salad or a beer? Is it an independent thing? Sorry, it's not a matter of independence. It's a matter of order and discipline. It is a matter of order and discipline that the Presidents of the courts must enforce, and nothing else. They hide their faces under the cloak of irresponsibility. They hide their faces under the cloak of independence. In Italy, in the case of the Berlusconi trial, you could see three judges sitting down, the camera recording them when they handed down the verdict. In Croatia, a judge out of respect for the people, on behalf of the people, tried Sanader, stood up and read the judgment, and the camera recorded him. How's it going in Slovenia? Have you ever seen a judge? Of course you saw him in case a reporter caught him. The court is not allowed to record, the prosecutor may be recorded, the defendant may be recorded, as far as the judge is concerned, but it is not allowed to record. Because they wrote rules like that. Why is that? Are we also going to write rules that we're not allowed to be filmed or what? In whose name, then, do they judge if they do not judge in the name of the people? But if they are judged in the name of the people, they are likely to be seen by this people. But when one online media published a picture of Judge Kleinškova, within two hours the order came, "so withdraw from the online media". Yeah, is that a holy cow or what? What's that? Why is that? Then why are we taking pictures of an MP and so on and so forth? These are three independent branches of government and are subject to the same rules in this context. And these same rules apply in the sense that the situation is what the European Court of Human Rights said, that they are subject to the same criteria as we are, the same criteria for all this behaviour, responsibility and so on. In the meantime, they hide themselves with this responsibility and pull over them a cloak called independence. Yeah, how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It is now quite a classic in the set of procedural proposals by Mr Tank to invite the Government to a more active or active debate. In response to him, and above all to all those new Members, let me say that the Government or the Ministry of Justice will be pleased to discuss actively when you have legislative proposals on the table. Well, I'd be happy to. On the subject under consideration today, however, we have already said much on many occasions. As you know, we have also prepared a reasoned opinion for this meeting. I think it's on 25 pages. Members of this ministry have explained their views on a number of committees, have repeatedly reasoned on why individual international analyses are incomparable, or why small print is needed in the analysis. We have repeatedly explained that in our legal system we have sufficient safeguards or even explained them. We also explained, listed the competences of individual authorities and others. In short, we feel that we have repeatedly given our views on the topic on the table today. Since we are acting rationally, we also note that the Minister has taken all that needs to be said today in his introductory debate. In the course of the discussion, however, no new facts or circumstances were exposed to which further discussion would lead to additional arguments by the Government. As it is said, active debate, active content arguments can be expected from our side when we give you or when you have legislative proposals from our department on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Proposer wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, this act, which is before us, did not bring Santa Claus, nor did Santa Claus. It was written by me and the experts. And the act we are talking about is actually in the legislative process. So you're allowed to come by and it's desirable that you discuss this too, because, as I said, the Holy Spirit didn't create it, but you had to write this document. However, we are in the legislative process because he is also on the committee and then at the plenary session of the National Assembly. As far as legislative procedures are concerned. Look, you're here for your second term. The ministers are changing, you're staying. You're in a conflict of interest, you know that. Why? For a fundamental reason, because you are not expected to discuss justice critically and that you will have a critical distance to justice. Just because you're home. And after the end of your term, you'll go there, too. Yeah, what it would look like you're criticizing the Supreme Court, your former employer and your future. It's a bit of a problem. A man would expect some serious minister who would ever come forward and say something, not just when it is necessary to criticize the proposers who deal with these issues. Otherwise, that's the situation. On the Committee, you rejected all the proposals for conclusions. Citizens need to know that we have put forward a proposal for a decision in the form of seven points. Citizens need to know what will happen now. It will happen that the President will conclude the meeting and will say that we are going to the next item, which is unfortunately also the case in the Rules of Procedure. And then it looks like we're forcing some debates, we're repenting here in the National Assembly and so on and so forth, and then there's no vote at the end. But the citizens need to know. There is no vote and there will be no vote because the coalition on the Justice Committee has rejected all conclusions. But I can tell you today that you will repeat the exercise. So many of these exercises will have to be repeated until you realize that something has to be done. It's a problem. It is this that more or less new Members from the Slovenian political left are coming, who just need to be told some things every time. If I'm trying to bring my performance to a close, I'll put it this way. See, our country does not work as it should, because those pillars of the state that are, Parliament, government and judiciary, especially this last pillar of every democratic state, so justice does not work. It is not so much a matter of today's issues as it is a matter of fundamental questions concerning justice. First of all, it's not your turn. It's not your turn. And that trials are held in unreasonable lengths, which is why citizens pay penalties. Secondly, the justice system works too slowly in terms of resolving economic disputes. Look, if there's a default in Germany, the judicial system will react within four months. Within four months, any private person can still survive. Each economic facility will spend four months. Then the judgment is enforceable and he will receive the payment he has been sued for. Yeah, what's in Slovenia? One loving craftsman who has been owed one pile of money, and must go bankrupt, will wait four years. Four years. Then it's not weird. We have a case from Notranjska. We have a case from Ptuj, where the craftsman hanged himself. What's left of him? He writes a suicide note and says, "I don't owe the workers." But he didn't get the payment, you know where – you know where? He didn't get paid at headquarters, you know. And then he ends his life that way. If the justice system worked, this craftsman would have a wire transfer on his bank account within four months. And don't tell me then that the justice system works, but that it's getting better and so on. Mrs Porotat also talked about how things are improving, as well as the Minister through talks about how they are improving and showing some of the numbers they are holding. Otherwise they do, because you have to say that some steps are, but these steps of justice in the right direction – do you know what they are? Kilavi. Like a baby who gets on her feet for the first time. They're about like a baby when he takes his first steps. I don't see any changes in justice anymore, and I can't imagine anyone saying things are going in the right direction. But when the Members are here in Parliament, when it comes to giving 15 million, instead of giving them to the justice system, they would have pointed them out for floods, Mrs Popotat. That would be very nice, but it would have to be given to floods, not to the justice that spent too much money. If I finish, I end up like this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Slovenian political left, I must say so, because the parties are different, but one of them comes and new, always the same faces come, with a new name, i.e. with the new name of the party to which they belong, you are protecting justice. Why are you protecting him? [[…]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Because this justice works like the one in the Weimar Republic because it protects you. [[…]] That's the problem. And we'll do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I propose that you copy the opening address of Minister Klemenčič to the Secretary of State when he presented the Government's position on this point. How should he respond to the three-hour debate that will take place? But you can explain that to me? With regard to the work of the judiciary, the Minister of Justice and the judiciary, the President-in-Office, please tell the Secretary of State that, at the time of the Secretary of State, the judiciary has slipped on the successful judiciary. Now we're the '90s. Two Bantustan South African republics are ahead of us, Swaziland and Lesotho. Do you know what that means? Two bantustans. And you talk about success, about results, I don't know what else. Before anyone from the judiciary says anything good, let's first look at the data, the state, the view in which we belong, then we can easily prepare, together if necessary, measures for this area. And I'll say one more thing. We have proposed, you can also verify and suggest that you also reproduce the State Secretary, a few acts in the field of justice, from the amendment of the Constitution to the revisions of laws, etc. But the fact that the Ministry of Justice has not been responding in the last two years or lately since Alenka Bratušek's term of office, does not say much, is no secret. Minister Pličanič did not discuss it; the Secretary of State was probably the same at the time, not because it did not seem to be worth it. And now we've come up with the same thing. Thus, the Ministry has once again put itself in the role of unnecessary debate. Yes, then what do you announce time for 45 minutes and make the work of the National Assembly difficult? I propose that, in future cases, not only to the Minister of Justice, but also to others, the Government should come to explain that it will come to the debates and that it will argue its performances, but not only by doing so in a mass or something like that, so humiliating, demeaning to the proponents and to the National Assembly. When they come to ask for a mandate [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] they're acting different. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure? You still want to. If you also wish to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, you will be alerted by raising your hand. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm going through the list. We have six other panellists registered. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We added some materials for this agenda item to the debate. We wrote in the paper that the President of the Supreme Court, in his work at least fourteen times, violated the Constitution when deciding in the Senate. I think it would be very important for anyone, someone from the government and perhaps even from the judiciary to say whether this is the standard for working in a court or an emergency condition for you to be an officer in a court of law. Imagine if someone among us committed 14 fatal accidents, if I said so myself. Every year, one. What would be the appearance of this official who would do that? It could happen to us, but the media could be full of it. And the question would immediately be why and whether it meets ethical, moral, legal and other criteria for the performance of the function is, in fact, one that can perform the function. When we come to these conclusions, which are not our own, but based on decisions made by the courts or the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights, we find that some judges make catastrophic mistakes at work, that is to say they are in conflict with the constitutional order, nothing happens. Nothing at all. Not once do I remember anyone reporting to the National Assembly, for example the Council of Justice or anyone, that proceedings have been initiated due to errors that have occurred in the judicial proceedings when deciding whether to work in the core business of judges. We do not know these cases, and I believe that all other professions should be treated in the same way as political authorities' officials, as a medical error, as well as a judicial error. And also a judicial error should go through the same procedure, the responsibility for work should be placed at a different level, not in such a way that, in the final stage, if anything happens, the state budget pays or those who have annulled the judgment in one or the other direction. No one takes any responsibility. Taking pictures of judges is also a particular problem. You can paint a judge when you go to a press conference. Mrs Roblek, President of the Judicial Society, has been on television many times. We've all been watching it. Mr Maslesha has also been on television a number of times recently because he taught or interpreted or distributed anything. What is this ban on taking pictures of judges? Is it absolute, is it from case to case, is it true on the street, is it only valid in the courtroom or how? I think these things are being very abused. Even what many say is not to comment on judicial decisions is not to be disputed with them. Anything can happen, anything can be done. Even the President of the Supreme Court commented on and predicted a future decision in an open case. And none of the politicians on this side who advocated not having to comment on the judiciary said anything, protested nothing, no one thought anything strange. Why should Members be silent, but the only ones are committed to speaking and therefore have a special constitutional right to speak. What is the point of views that you spread out among the people? I think that these matters are incorrect and are plagued by practice and logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you. The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It has been said several times that we have been discussing this subject for the fifth time. So this is the fifth time we've met on the same subject. However, it should not be a waste of time for us to discuss violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. The National Assembly must also be open to dignified debates. Let me get to the point. It has been pointed out on several occasions that Slovenia, in view of the number of inhabitants, is moving at the height of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, in the light of Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which speaks of everyone having the right to decide on his civil rights and obligations or on any criminal charges against him in a fair, public and reasonable manner independently and impartially by law. With regard to the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, the study by Prof. Dr. Lovra Šturm shows from a methodological point of view that the Slovenian judiciary is the same and comparable to most European courts. The Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, cites a 2.5% success rate of complaints, which is quite comparable with Slovenian data. However, Slovenia must, of course, strive to reduce these percentages. The problem of falling behind in the light of Article 6 of the ECHR is also a second stage trial which, in my view, should be substantive, as this reduces the decision-making process significantly within a reasonable time. However, the question arises as to how only the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg respects Article 6 of the ECHR, given the annual increase in the number of cases before the said court, and this merely puts itself in the position of violating the judgment in particular within a reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u76	Yes, when it comes to human rights, it cannot and must not be compromises, but the problem is when it comes to the functioning of the justice system. Some of you even — even though I had warned earlier in the opening words — said, a few minutes ago, a colleague there, quite contrary to the view that it is inappropriate for us to discuss legal judgments. Once again, I invite everyone who really thinks that way to the library, and I show you the textbooks of law, constitutional law, which states that the fact that legal judgments are discussed in a given country, or in the general public, you can say because of me in the street, either in the profession, or in politics, or in institutions, the criterion even, not just the evidence, but also the criterion of democracy of this country. And those who have debates on legal judgments of concern should then check with themselves to see how its values and compliance with the fundamental principles that have created a modern united Europe on the ruins of the Berlin Wall, of which Slovenia is also an integral part. There seems to be something very, very wrong here. When we talk about these judgments, we come to some absurdities, and other than comparisons, this simply cannot be demonstrated. I've already mentioned one in the introductory part, and I'm going to repeat it, and I'm going to say it a little differently. There's a judgment that you can't tell someone who was a member of the Udba in the previous regime because it's criminal in democracy. So, be careful, we're legally forbidden from someone on the transition left to tell the truth. On the other hand, there are legal judgments that allow someone who is politically completely different to enter politics with independence or democratisation of the state, you can say anything, you can even lie about it, you can malign it indefinitely, and you can write, and he has to accept it. That's no problem. This is said to be the case with us with legal judgments forbidden to a transitional leftist to tell the truth about him himself and it is commanded that he can lie about someone who is a Democrat and who has participated in the war for the independence of Slovenia. That's great! And before marriage, we're all the same — aren't we? Yeah, a little bit of morgen, as it used to be. And that can be proven, that's verifiable. The very existence of such judgments is, in my personal opinion, a severe blemish, even in some way a violation of human rights. And that's not the end of it. I mentioned a case earlier when in a judgment, a work that is legally competent spells out exactly what I said earlier. One can get muddled because he's in a position because he's SDS, he can be written about, he does what he wants. That's not the problem. He's got to take it all. But on the other hand, when it comes to, let's say that I show this in the right light, even those to whom a person would have previously believed that they would defend a journalist or more journalists who in this case were incorrect are the right honorable judgment of journalists, is signed by Ranka Ivelja, the Society of Journalists of Slovenia, very clearly of the same matter, states that it is an eclectic case of an enemy speech, that it is to the end of an act rejected and that it should be condemned in all ways and that it is worth sentencing in all ways. First, the court should write this, this is a totally wrong world, if, of course, it were to be judged in accordance with European values. And here's the problem. The problem is with values. I do not claim that all legislation is ideal, many of you have already spoken, I myself have said something about legislation. But even within the current framework, it would be different if that were what you wanted. And this is where we come up with the question of what is judicial policy. There is also a judicial policy. In this House, Hercog, the legendary long-standing president of the German Constitutional Court, defined what the judicial policy was when he said they had just replaced Chancellor Schroeder and Kohl said that by yesterday the same judges on the same matter, under the same laws, some small cases, would judge a small percentage differently from tomorrow. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is judicial policy. And this is our problem, our problem is judicial policy and values, because one part of Slovenian society does not function in accordance with European standards and European values, to which European institutions rightly remind us. And they warn us again and again, even in a way that is special. Such declarations as were adopted in relation to Slovenia by the European People's Party for no other member [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are following the debate on the state of justice. Mr Breznik mentioned in his discussion one important document which was signed at Brdo pri Kranj in 2009 – the Bordeaux Declaration. Given that this directly concerns the situation in the judiciary and at the same time nicely reflects how wrong the views of apologists about the state of justice are, allow me to read only three articles, so that the Slovenian public will understand what we are talking about. I quote, in the 67th paragraph, "Publication in the media also contributes to the achievement of a fair trial, since it protects prosecutors and defendants from the imprudent functioning of the judiciary." Given that this declaration has been signed by Slovenia, we probably agree that it is right for the media to write about it. And then, "...publicity of proceedings is one of the basic ways of maintaining trust in the court". Comrade Gorenak, colleague Grims and others have told us what absurdities there are when, in normal parliamentary democracy, democratic regimes, judges act as those who adopt positions of face and character, it is hidden in us. On the part of the Members of the largest coalition party, we have even heard that we should not publish the names of the judges and those in the prosecution proceedings. Here, however, Slovenia has signed this declaration, where it is clearly black in white, the public of the proceedings is one of the basic ways of maintaining confidence in the courts. And then, at the 73rd point, "to deal with the challenge of interfering with the work of the judiciary", that is to say, this reason on which you constantly hang yourself and try to convince the public that due to failure to intervene in the judiciary we must not discuss the state of justice, but point 73 states that judges and state prosecutors must be well qualified to deal with this challenge. They must have high moral standards and exercise strong self-restraint in giving urgent opinions on the matters under consideration. It is precisely the reaction to the debate on the state of justice that, according to the signatories to the Bordeaux Declaration, the criteria that show whether the judiciary is independent or not. If we are discussing the state of justice in public and if the judges have adequate integrity, the independence of the judiciary is ensured. However, if we hide this debate if we want to limit the debate by this non-indicative argument, then it is obvious that judges and state prosecutors are not well qualified and do not have adequate moral standards and do not know how to limit themselves in order to achieve this integrity. Earlier, colleague Kramar Korenjak mentioned that significant improvements have been made in the area of the judiciary. Look, for Mr. Cordéz, I'm sure. Not for most of the others. On the contrary. Cases that come from the Strasbourg court every week and cases that have been pointed out by colleagues give a preliminary indication that this is not the case. Colleague Root Kramar said we should respect the Code of Fine Conduct here. I don't remember having any kind of document to refer to. The coalition treaty is not a code of good behaviour, but, if it is, it is mainly for coalition Members. I typed a code of good behavior in Google, they only have it in astronomy and astrophysics and behavior in Cetis, but not elsewhere. I'd like more information on where we broke this code. Now the last one. A colleague from the judiciary, who had 45 minutes and spent ten times less, said they were acting rationally at the Ministry of Justice. If they behave rationally, then I don't know what she's doing here, given that she hasn't made any substantive comments. Not one. If I acted rationally, I'd work at the Ministry and solve matters in the field of justice, not look here for an hour. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think that there is nothing wrong with discussing this subject here today. On the contrary. It's only right that we talk about this. But of course I don't want to look naive. And yet, I don't see why we're going so far apart in this debate, and we're dividing ourselves into yours, ours, you, them and so on. But when, believe me, I've been quite thoroughly looking at all the material, your recommendations and the record of the committee, and so on, I see quite a few common points, a few ideas that we all want to put together. Firstly, I think that we are all in favour of going to the rule of law, that the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is crucial to the rule of law as we want to be, and I believe that we are. Secondly, we are in favour of an effective and impartial judiciary. Thirdly, we all want the court to return or regain its reputation. I think these are common points, common ground. Of course, it is unacceptable that personal errors of judges occur and that there are grave breaches of professional standards. But as far as I understand things, I'm not a lawyer, so let me be forgiven if I misinterpret matters, but here are the competent authorities for that. I think it's a priority that is called the Judicial Council and is responsible for it, and last but not least, it's a constitutionally defined body. It's all right. It's all right. I also agree that all the efforts of the three branches of government must be united, concerted and sincerely endeavored to achieve everything I have said and that we are probably all ready to sign in this Chamber. I will not define myself here in value on certain matters, but I think it is the wisest, most rational approach in order to involve the Ministry in this matter, to make concrete amendments to the legislation. When concrete proposals are made on our tables, on the committees, and not least at the plenary session of the National Assembly, let this be discussed, frankly, but in particular with the interest that all those common points are shared, I hope that we agree that these are common points, and coalitions and opposition, somehow fall into the appropriate legislation that will apply, which will not be subject to monthly or annual changes, because it is also a marriage for a successful country and a legal state. Thank you very much, fellows.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u82	President, thank you very much for your word. I am pleased, Mr Prikl, that you agree with the points made by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this recommendation, and I hope that soon such legislation will come from the coalition, which will also correspond to those points. But it seems strange to me that today when I was listening to my colleagues, it seems to me that some have written a speech some time ago or at least certainly before the session. You all said we were opening up an ideological theme to talk about ideological themes. I don't know if Kordesh is an ideological theme, if Cat is an ideological theme. I don't think that's an ideological theme. For example, these addresses are not an ideological topic either, at least not for me, perhaps for my colleague Ja: Rwanda remains more business-friendly than Slovenia. And here's the address: we're still digging for Rwanda. These are the two addresses found in Finance 29. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Now you're going to ask me what I'm actually saying about business now, if it's the topic of court. See, in the field of efficiency of the judiciary, we have ranked 122nd among 189 countries, according to the report, and some do not seem to be affected by the efficiency and independence of the judiciary. I think all the research and all the experts speak differently. Independence and efficiency of the judiciary are important for an attractive business environment. This is what we are reminded of in the European Union and elsewhere. Businesses must operate in a legal system that provides security that ensures stability and is predictable. We must therefore ensure the independence of the judiciary, ensure its quality and effectiveness. The independent judiciary is also important for an effective fight against corruption. But where Slovenia is about corruption, I think you all know. In the Epilog on 6 November, Anton Panjan, President of the Supreme Court, said that the judges were being evaluated for three years and agreed, so he himself said that these assessments had been collegiate in the past, but that matters were now few and that it was said that six judges had lost their jobs in the previous year due to poor assessments. I find it hard to believe that the work was lost by those who were tried in judgments that fell due to procedural errors. Remember on October 2, 2009, when three young people lost their lives on the highway because of an alcoholic driver. Well, Cat then Supreme Court 2014 abolishes a 10-year prison sentence. He's getting a lower sentence by retrial. Then you have the case of the former director of Hypo Alpe Adria Bozidar Spain, who even returned the gold bars to him, even though he was laundering a lot of money, cleaned up millions and still has his assets today. The three masked young men who attacked Mitja Blažić in 2009 will also receive compensation because the judgment fell due to procedural errors, although, most ironically, all admitted the attack. Not to mention the Balkan warrior, where one will even be compensated for suffering in Povšeta, Kordez, Friend and others who have never come to court. In the Epilogue, Mr Panjan said that all these cases are a reflection of the normal act of the judiciary. Is it normal for us to be on the back of the tail about the verdicts? Is it normal for us to spend more than €20 million due to the backlogs? Just because of such inequalities, due to such costs, due to the lack of transparency in the functioning and independence of the judiciary, I think the popularity scale in our justice is also falling. And I will say, too, Mr Panjan said that our justice has allowed an unimaginable theft of property for several years and that there has been a dissatisfaction with the professional and the average public, but that they only allow and understand those perceptions that come from the average public and the media, but they do not understand those perceptions that come from the professional public. And in view of such statements and all those judgments that have fallen due to procedural errors, where the guilt has been clearly expressed, I think it is necessary that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you. Finally, we give the floor to the representative of the Government and to the proposer. Madam Secretary of State Tina Brecelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the government has nothing more to say about what is going on today. We've written it down, we've told it all. With regard to Mr Logar's proposal to devote our time to something else, in our case, I fully agree with your proposal. I'm about to make it happen and stop the session. But my experience teaches me that when we left such meetings, the government representatives, because there was nothing more to add, the meetings were suspended and they were waiting for the government representative to return. As it is said, we have said everything so far, but I agree with your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Yeah, relatively for a while. You were talking, Mr. SMC, about dignity to the judiciary and so on. I agree. I don't have any problems. I'm very proud to tell you where they stole it, so I won't use a word that would be rude. It must be made very clear that each government devotes several tens of thousands of euros each week to compensations, damages due to judicial errors, to an unreasonable trial and so on. For example, Mrs. Makoter took away 250,000 euros, by the way. But that's what workers pay for. If justice doesn't like it, it's another thing. However, I strongly agree with you, as you said, that a final decision is required at the second stage. That's what we accepted. In 2007 or 2008, our penal code was amended, but then Mr. Zalar appeared, which changed him back to the old state. And now the courts can say again at stage two that it is wrong to try again at stage one. Which is nonsense, Mrs. Murgel. Let them work at the second stage, not just palamuding, but returning to the first stage. But there's one important difference, and that's what I'm going to say, Mr. Prickl, I agree with you. We have a world of justice that is supposed to be done – but it doesn't want to, it's a joke. He won't! And you have no institution over him. This is an independent institution after the constitution, the only institution that defines no law, but just the constitution. And there's only God over him. There's only a god above Mr. Vlai. Look, Mr. Vladi can do whatever he wants. And he did as I spoke earlier about those appointments of judges in Cel. Notwithstanding the ruling of the Administrative Court, no, he once again appoints that lawyer. This is the Council of Justice and Mr. Wlaj. So there's a big problem. But I agree with you that there must be some common ground. Thank God they are, and let justice make laws. Yes, Madam Secretary of State, I hope you've heard, bring laws. Take only those for whom Mr Plitchanic, in response to the question already in March this year, told me that they were ready. Now bring them back. Otherwise, you will have an opportunity, Mr Prikl, when we put some law on this subject to vote in favour. I hope you do vote in favour. Because time is coming to an end, maybe another thing, another anomaly that I would like to point out that was created in these very areas. Here, it has been passed into law by the vote of Members in the previous term. But it's the next thing. Look, today the judges have some controllers over them anyway. So if the first-degree one is wrong, the second-degree one can be repaired. If this is the case, they can be corrected in the Supreme Court, even in the Constitutional Court. Now tell me what's in the D.A.'s Law. It's not there. If the D.A. said one day of work wasn't murder, we ended the story. There's only God above him. Because we've been writing the law all along that the prosecutor is as independent as the judge, which is a disaster. Catastrophe. The D.A. can't be that independent. Prosecutor, this is a hierarchical organization. But in our system, we have this thing arranged like this. Besides, it's just for the record. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the agenda, it's a defensive motion for the president of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the discharge proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u88	Good-bye! On 9 November 1989, the revolutionary people of East Communist Berlin demolished a wall set up by the then communist German Democratic Republic as a protection measure of the totalitarian regime. The wall became a symbol of the bloc's division and the cold war, and in fact on the east side the bloody border between totalitarianism and democracy, between the lagging eastern and successful, on the principles of free competition based, western Berlin. If I say so myself. There was a border between Berlin Trabants, Warburgs and Berlin Mercedes, Beemves, Audis and other successful brands. However, it was not just a trade-off in terms of material prosperity. A much larger barrier was seen in the value system. Last Sunday in Berlin was the 25th anniversary of the demolition of this wall. Among those attending the Berlin anniversary there was no one who looked with nostalgia at the past totalitarian times of Berlin or the German Democratic Republic or spoke respectfully about them, even less to magnify them. All politicians and simple people have given a single message. Never again. Never again the Trabants, the Warburgs, and so on. And more importantly, never more victims. It is true, however, that there was none of the top Slovenian current authorities. Such a Berlin wall was also supposed to be the most open border between Eastern and Western Europe, our green border. The common characteristics of all these walls and the borders between the east and the west were the victims of the eastern refugees who were shot at by the border authorities of their totalitarian regimes. They weren't shot on the west side. On the other hand, no one was fleeing from the west to the east. As it is said, they were killed and imprisoned by Communist totalitarian regimes and received and helped them on the west side. The attitude towards human rights, human rights, human life, was completely different on both sides. On the one hand, the culture of death was cultivated, on the other hand, the culture of freedom. Interestingly, the victim was on our so-called green border, the most open border in Eastern Europe, several times more than on the infamous Berlin wall. After the fall of the wall, there was another difference. This time, it is among the countries that have liberated communism, the attitude towards the regime and crime. In some countries, they have dealt with totalitarian authorities and perpetrators of crimes at the political and actual level, as they have performed chandeliers and largely disrupted the totalitarian criminal history of the former authorities and prevented their metamorphosis. These countries are on a good path of material and spiritual prosperity, that is, universal growth. Everywhere where this has not been cleared, where it has not been cleared with a regime where lustration has not taken place, restorative totalitarianism appears as a growing burden and problem. What is happening is what is stated both in the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and in Council of Europe resolution 1096, which discusses measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian regimes. Slovenia is sorry among these countries. The process of liberation and independence began in Slovenia before the fall of the Berlin Wall, while the 57th issue of the New Magazine and the writing constitution and the process against the Quartet are very important milestones on this path. The process against the quadruple is much more important than he thinks or wants to admit a lot of things. He mentioned the first defeat of the Yugoslav Army on Slovenian soils, as it was achieved that on Slovenian soils it was also the case in Slovenian language on the military courts. Above all, the process against the Quartet has united the Slovenian people, launched the anti-Yugoslovak mood, developed state-building and has grown into an unstoppable force, which eventually led to a plebiscite decision for a single country after two years. On 25 June 1991, we also actually received it, although the old communist political summit of the process of self-reliance was intimate and did not actually support it. He put obstacles where he could, the disarmament of territorial defence was only one of them, and it took a lot more courage and political skill to create a new country on a European and global map. After centuries of fighting for national liberation, the Slovenians finally formed their national identity and established their statehood. In the preamble to the Constitution, there are fully substantiated reasons for the independence and differences between the foundations of the newly formed Slovenia and the failed Yugoslav countries. The third paragraph reads, quote, "The SFRY does not act as a legally regulated state and seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces" and then states that "the federal regime does not allow the resolution of the political and economic crisis and that no agreement has been reached between the Yugoslav republics to allow the republics to be independent while the Yugoslav federal state is being transformed into a union of sovereign states." The president of the National Assembly gave an interview for Youth two months ago. It has expressed several views and claims, which are contrary to the resolutions of the European Parliament and of the European Council, contrary to the statements made by all who spoke of the Berlin Wall's anniversary, contrary to all the statements and positions of our policies expressed in Srebrenica or on the Day of Remembrance of Srebrenica, and in particular to our constitutional arrangements, the preamble to the Constitution and the Constitution, particularly those which speak of human rights and freedoms, human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Let's go in one order. The claim, the own state is a step backwards, not in terms of statehood, but of state-of-the-art. It is as if the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, does not know that the purpose or purpose of state-building is the creation of the state. After centuries of efforts, the Slovenians finally succeeded in 1991. This statement means the humiliation of plebiscite, says that the people made a wrong decision at the referendum, means that Slovenia alone is not necessary. This also means disagreement with the expulsion of JLA and the exit from the totalitarian state. Second statement. Dr. Brglez said we now have a lot of small interests, instead of one big, state-efficient one. This means negating economic initiative and political pluralism and political initiatives. This means legalisation of the failed transition, the inviolability of institutions, the return to the cult of personality, the worship of one, all-knowing, all-inclusive leader, while at the same time returning to the times of unpredictability, in the times of the Trabants, if I am speaking in a parable. Just a step back from the state-of-the-art is a totalitarian state in our case. Third argument: "We were previously bound to a certain type of country that had an inheritance, credibility and a certain recognition in the international community, but now we have a country that is a member of NATO and an EU that cannot take advantage of it." The fact that the President of the National Assembly raises a former totalitarian state, built on tens of thousands of people killed during the post-war period, on many refugees, on terrorism, on human rights violations, is a total negation of the foundations of Slovenia, as enshrined in the preamble and provisions of the Constitution. When all of Europe, after the end of World War II, was deeply covered by the fresh air of freedom, machine guns began to rumble in our fields and forests. They carried out manslaughter long and hard without anyone trying to prove any guilt to the victims. Practically, human rights have been systematically violated until independence, and the rules for this have been written in secret official letters and are not accessible to people. The crowds suffered the consequences of illegal terror, fear, and mistrust. It was not for any of the perpetrators of the seas, criminal and terrorist acts that the regime condemned, even less punished. Not surprisingly, there was a special elite in the country. Fourth argument: "The result of only compliance with natural law, if you try to understand the authorities of that time, is postwar killings." This claim is unworthy, unethical, disrespectful to anyone, and especially to the holder of one of the most important functions in a democratic country. The attempt to justify mass seas by misapplicating the definition of natural law, with a view to legitimizing postwar killings as the right of the winners, is an act that has no basis, not in natural law, nor in positive law, nor in our constitutional regulation. It is even in direct contradiction with the provisions of our Constitution and the basis on which Slovenia is conceived as a single country. The President of the National Assembly made this statement as an advocate of genocide. The Hague court judges the political and actual perpetrators of such acts. And it is only because of this statement that a reasonable, responsible policy that is aware of the weight and consequences of its actions should step down from its functions and from its own politics. Such a vigilant understanding of a winning policy through a conscious misinterpretation of natural law is also reflected in the work of this call by the National Assembly. The political lustration of one of the Members, the president of the largest opposition party, is merely a continuation of a conscious misinterpretation of the totalitarianly understood natural rights of the winners. Dr. Brglez is the first name among those who take the right of the winner in a similar way as the wartime bloodbaths. Fifth statement: "The idea of revolution, as advocated by the United Left, may be attractive to us, but it is not real in the current constitution. It would be unrealistic to convince people to support such ideas, but until conditions are ripe, they should eat grass." This statement, this statement, shows that the President of the National Assembly, the President of the most important institution of a democratic state, is sympathetic to the idea of revolution as a legal and legitimate way to take power, although we know from our own Slovenian experience that the revolution, even in the fact that some are declared conquerors of World War II, has brought only one woe and a backlog for a democratic world in a material and spiritual sense. It was precisely the revolution that prevented a different development, since it physically destroyed much of the intelligence, economy, agriculture and rich pre-war cultural heritage. Sympathizing with the revolution means a kind of masochism, a return to the unknown suffering caused by a permanent violation of human rights, the right to freedom of conscience, political association and human dignity and integrity. These statements once again mean defending revolutionary acts contrary to the values enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the ethical standards of democratic regimes, including Slovenia. For this reason, we propose that Dr Milan Brglez be relieved of his office as President of the National Assembly, as he is not fit to serve as President of the National Assembly because of his lack of respect for ethics, the Constitution and the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. To present my opinion, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u90	Your Honor! On Tuesday, 21 October 2014, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group formally submitted an application for my discharge as President of the National Assembly due to my interview in the magazine Mladina, which was published on 26 September 2014. When I read it carefully, I found that the proposal for my release is a glue that, otherwise, meets the formal requirements, but does not correspond to the graphic quality of the glue. Anyone who has ever encountered art knows that it is necessary to make glues into a whole new one from a number of old things. Unfortunately, the SDS Group was not a match. This is evident on the back of the glue, where the signature of John John Janša was deleted from the list of all the signatures with bleach; this is even clearer in the original of the request than in the copies. John John Janša was thus, not after the decision of the National Assembly, but after the decision of his own parliamentary group. It's certainly not the end of the story here. Clearing the name, and this very bad erasure, so that it is possible to see these things from space, raises reasonable suspicion that the SDS Group has its Members' signatures stored in stock. This means that probably valued colleagues from the SDS Group have given their signatures a blank and thus allowed them to be used for anything, at any time and anywhere. In fact, they can be attached to any document. But let's go back to erasing Mr. John John Janša. Why Janša’s colleagues whitened, that is, erased, only the SDS Group knows. It is my understanding that they were probably afraid that the requirement of its signature would not be formally filed and would not be accepted. Let me draw attention to another practice of misuse of the name of Mr Janez Ivana Janša for some other purposes. Interestingly, it was deleted from the proposal for my discharge, which was tabled on 21 October. At the same time, it was still proposed to be a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. It follows that the SDS Group does not know exactly whether Mr Janša is still a Member or not, or when he pleases them, that Mr Janša is a Member, when he does not, but is whitened. This does not seem worthy to me and it is disrespectful to Mr Janez Ivana Janša, to me as President of the National Assembly and to all fellow Members and fellow Members, and especially to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I further note that the Group of Members is familiar with some of the procedures that have so far been foreign to me. Distortion of statements from the context, adaptation of what is said, flooding, mentioning things that have never been said, even by allowing part of the statement to be attributed to me by an interlocutor, shall automatically add statements by others, made context, meaning or purpose. Or ascribeing opinions and facts that have nothing to do with reality and would be the easiest way to label them with a word of lies. This is the political culture of the SDS Group and their uncles, aunts, gods, satellites or anything else that could lead to the Group of Members. Instead of going to the SDS to say bob beans, look in the mirror, see what she's doing wrong, maybe even admit her mistakes. No, we don't get that. We get a political culture or political ignorance of accusations, mobs, landscaping, adaptations, markets from the context and so on. This is certainly not my way of doing things, I'm not close, I'm not legitimizing it and I'm totally rejecting it. As well as rejecting the writing of certain members of the SDS Group to various Slovenian and international bodies, which malign and demean the official bodies of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite all of this, I am aware and respect that the SDS Group has every right to its views and views, which I have consistently demonstrated in my practice in the National Assembly. I have that right myself. Perhaps you could do better or say something better and clearer. There are no unmistakables. In my research and teaching work, I have always assumed that it is human and human to be wrong. I see no reason for anything different in politics. But the fact that this request is obvious to me, not only is it not true, but it is the fruit of some other purpose. Purpose of discredit in the function of a party fight or via client satellites. Purposes of creating emergency situations. The purpose of my silence and removal, the insult of my dignity, the dignity of my fellow citizens and citizens who have or have not voted in the last extraordinary parliamentary elections. But this time, I'm not gonna back off, and I'm not gonna keep quiet. Let me repeat the part that you proposed this time deliberately overheared or forgotten. I quote a key part of my speech on the day of the victims of totalitarian regimes on August 23rd: "Let us take as an incentive and example the work of political thought Hannah Arendt, who in her book The Sources of Totalitarianism warned that a totalitarian system without the consent of society – from the masses to the elite – cannot be established. The evil of totalitarianism can only create a space of political action that enables citizens to act politically. And Parliament represents such a space of political, political speech and dialogue – now I miss a sentence of hope and obvious illusion that this national assembly will also be so, and continue – to try to understand without justifying violence, to turn the places of dedication to political will and to keep the memory of the victims of totalitarianism constantly through true political speech and action." End of quote. Every moment of our work in the National Assembly, we can take advantage of the fact that we are always trying to draw closer to the examples set by Hannah Arendt, so that we do not remain silent and quietly agree with what has happened, but that we are politically speaking and changing what we need to change, so that we can take a better path together, not any other way, but a democratic and parliamentary path. My speeches are a context that also gives meaning to my other public work. Part of this public action is the giving of interviews. Each of them represents a more or less rounded whole, which consists of the questions of the interlocutors and my answers. These are smaller rounded pieces, consisting of sentences and sentences from words. They need to be understood before criticism and, above all, read them. A critical, well-intentioned reader, who does not market any words from sentences, phrases from conduct, refer to the context of the answers and individual answers from the context and concept of the entire interview, cannot find in my interview in Youth what the SDS Group tells me. Uncritical but malicious reading by the SDS Group serves and creates their and not my contexts. Ever since I interviewed Youth, I feel like the SDS Group's content of the interview has been impaired. After all, they have also led a policy on our country for the past 25 years, and therefore they also bear the responsibility for the situation we are in. The SDS Group accuses me, for the first time, of the humiliation of Slovenia's independence and statehood and of the dignity of those who voted in the plebiscite for the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, the understatement of the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia and its comparison with the predecessor country also through a trip on the Communist Party and the secret security service, to which I do not understand how it could be connected. Thirdly, a misunderstanding of natural law and an excuse for postwar conditions with it. Fourthly, favoring totalitarian methods and defending the ideas of revolution. With regard to my statements of countryworthiness and credibility, it is worth noting that I have spoken about the situation of the former country in international relations. You are well aware that Slovenia has lost many opportunities in the last 25 years to better position itself in international relations and to strengthen its international political and international role, because, among other things, every single government has failed to understand that all previous governments have acted on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and that international credibility is unacceptable at any time. It is also not permissible to link common, national or public interests with partial interests. That's all I wanted to say. I have not even implicitly mentioned the internal political context introduced by the SDS Group by the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. However, if this crucial document of Slovenian nationality, which I understand as a process that was crowned by the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in December 1991, is already mentioned by the SDS Group, it would be appropriate to look, in addition to the preamble, at least part 1 of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which underlines the continuity of the legal order of the SFRJ and the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to point out that I agree that there was a value breakthrough between one and the other, but it is not necessarily a matter of saying that the Republic of Slovenia has nothing to do with its predecessor, namely, the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and the wider state-building, that is, the SFRJ. If this is denied by the SDS Group, only means that the Basic Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law, with its implementation, have not read me accurately enough by the members of the SDS Group, which I would not be surprised to have read in the set of works they have with assembly, erasure and glue. Since I am one of the citizens who voted on the plebiscite for independence, and I was also the contracting authority and reader of the New Journal from numbers 2 to 100, I have previously bought it or purchased it from my parents, by the way, and I ask how many of you from the SDS Group were then subscribers to the New Magazine, I am accused by the SDS Group that my statements despise the personal dignity of those who voted in favour of independence on the plebiscite, they convince me that their statements are distorted by elementary logic. The key issue that you attribute to me is the misunderstanding of the philosophy of natural and positive law and the explanation of post-war beatings, by means of the naked application of natural law by the authorities of the day. If I skip the context of the question relating to the parliamentary mandate of one of the Members, I said, I quote again: "If I make it very simple, you have a natural right and a positive right. Of course, we can all say that the prisoner has nothing to look for in Parliament, nor does it have to be explained. But in the end, you have a positive right, where there is no explicit rule. Both dimensions must be taken into account in a concrete decision. You know, just respecting positive law cannot prevent the Nazism that has come to power through the rule of law and through democracy. The result is merely compliance with natural law if you try to represent the then authorities, but postwar killings. So there's no way to exaggerate. In fact, it is difficult to come to a solution that is valid both in a positive legal sense and which is also in line with general ethics, principles and the nature of things." End of quote. First of all, in addition to the great simplification, i.e. the very beginning of the quote, or the indication, I would point out that the lecturer "to represent", which can also be read as "to step", has changed into "to understand". Let me stress that I do not excuse the authorities of that time who were so convinced of their right that they believed and acted as if positive law did not apply to them at that time. As a result, with my answer to the press question, I wanted to raise the dilemma that a positive right must contain as much natural law as possible. If it does not, it may occur to us that, by means of positive law, we are violating the principles of natural law or by the natural legal basis of correctness, and by the arbitrariness of our own action we are justifying infringements of positive law. Without an internal connection, both of us lose our humanity and our conscience and thus feel for what is right. Otherwise, I think it's enough to explain my attitude towards natural law and the victims of war and post-war violence to refer to Sophocles' Antigone. Everyone, no matter what he or she did, has the right to a decent burial. Moreover, natural history does not correspond to such a pure concept. It was also used to substantiate the Iberian colonization of America and the extermination of the Old Village Indians, and the winners of World War II also had to resort to it when they tried defeated war criminals, since in the developed international law, the applicable law was not sufficiently developed. But it should have been before the crimes were committed. In addition, the beginners of the political and ontological realism, in my doctorate, among which I particularly point out the Ombudsman Spinosa, have internally linked the constitutional and constitutional power and natural rights. In my statement, it was certainly crucial that I receive the same repudiation or unacceptable crimes committed in Nazism and fascism as postwar killings. However, in the case of post-war killings, crimes or crimes against humanity, as the experts and I found at the 1999 consultation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, if I am not mistaken, is a fact that I would not like to go further. I would only point out that in the previous country the concept of crimes or crimes against humanity or humanity was used only for the title of the chapter, but it did not define a specific crime. Those who know the general principles of criminal law know the internal legal consequences of such a fact. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I have one more point, but I'll tell you what. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u92	Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, as usual, I listened to the morning news on the radio. And, above all, two of the news is in my memory. First of all, the news is that from many, including European countries, they are fighting in the Islamic country and what this means is that in the future there is a real possibility that other European countries will be threatened to a greater extent, so we are at risk, and also Slovenia may not be as safe as it has been so far. So that's the worrying news. The other news that cheered me up was that Angela Merkel was going to Poland today, where she will celebrate the 25-year-old reconciliations between Germany and Poland. Then the news went on to show how much advantage both countries now have in coming to a reconciliation, given what happened during the war, that they cooperated well. Poland has 3% economic growth, both have great benefits and respect for each other. Angela Merkel is even the most popular foreign politician in Poland. Why am I saying this? Even because I wish we had it that way. Not between Germany and Poland or between Germany and Slovenia, because we have an extremely good relationship, but between us Slovenians, that this desire for reconciliation, after cooperation from which we will all benefit, is indeed our motto to act in this national assembly. I also remember the event a week ago in this House, some Members were present when the event was organised, and young people participated, entitled Participation of children and youth in public life. And here were the elementary schoolers and high school students, and they asked us why we don't know how to talk better, talk better, why we don't do more for the future, for their better future. And when I heard the words of adults who talked about the crisis, about poverty, about everything that we have in Slovenia, it really hurt me, and I said, "Do we have the right to take these young people's will to study, to the future, to live?" We have no right. However, we have a duty to which we have been elected to work here for the welfare of citizens. And this must guide us, to guide us in our debates. That I will not be a teacher by profession, I will say that in New Slovenia we will make an effort to do so. And when we have this proposal for a resolution on the table today, I myself went to this interview, I can read something even between the lines, these formulations have been somewhat embarrassingly written, so perhaps, even though the President has explained everything and I believe he is serious, that he does not think as he might appear, maybe there would be some excuse or that things would be clearer for those citizens, who may not understand a little more professional explanation. New Slovenia wants to work in a state-of-the-art way, so we want to look for solutions, and therefore we want to discuss in this Parliament in particular what we must do for this, our Slovenia. We are not satisfied because the government deals only with human resources solutions and there is no visible progress in finding solutions to promote the economy and all other problems. Unfortunately, I have to be critical here, too, but we will not participate in this vote, we will not vote, we will not take the votes, because we think it is unnecessary for us to make this decision again because we think we have to act, we have to look for solutions, not even further upsetting citizens and encourage some divisions. Soon I will visit all the parliamentary groups, ask for support for the law on a decent burial, and then the President of Parliament will also have the opportunity to support and prove that he thinks he is well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Presentation of the position of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u94	Good afternoon. Democracy, some have imagined when we finally got it, that this is really something that will make people happy, especially in this direction, that they will finally be able to say everything they really want and that they will never be punished for it. Of course, democracy never was. Democracy is not really something you can really say as you want to, but first of all, that you are primarily responsible for what you said. Which means you have some serious thought about what you're actually saying. It is especially important for those who represent someone in public life. And if this is the president of the National Assembly, it's all the more important. Before his election, I spoke to him about my opinion on the well-respected Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez. My opinion has not changed to this day, I mean exactly the same. When the solution comes, of course, the first thing that has to happen is that you first read an interview, you judge for yourself what is true and what is not. Unfortunately, after reading the first page, I didn't have to go on the other side at all, it was more than clear to me that it was something that was known only in one laboratory, it was a SDS lab. Make something out of something that's not. You need to know that it's a special art that very few people possess. But those who know it also control it. I must say that I am truly disappointed, especially because on November 1st, when I went to the Urh, as I have been every year for many years, what I am really aware of, I go there, I must admit that I am always bored because it is always the same. And I'll be honest, I'm going to bow down there because I know there were victims. And that's how I expected it to happen this year. I must say, I was extremely surprised. There was no political speaker, there was a lady who had never seen her grandmother, because she was buried there. And she was talking about this grandmother, in short, everything she thought she could be or had, and she also told a short story with which I won't burden you, how she actually ended up tragically but proudly. But she said something that's still in force today. This was due mainly to three reasons why the Slovenians suffer. And we also suffer here, as shown in the National Assembly. She said we had problems with greed, hatred, and carelessness. The first one led to wanting to take what is not ours. The second is that you have to express some hatred because of your instincts because of the first one, because otherwise you can't take it. And thirdly, that you are indifferent, that you do not care what happens to those who do evil to them. And that's how I feel about it. And after that, because I hope that we live in a free country, and that I have said that, of course, I will experience calls that I must resign, because I have said something again, which is wrong with our constitutional charter, constitution and God knows what else. But it's really gonna kill us. It's not going anywhere anymore. And we're listening to this over and over and over again and I have to say that a fellow Member who went by my desk said, "Where will this lead us? We've been discussing the same thing all day." Therefore, I must say that today I am experiencing the day of destruction of the largest opposition party. It's really just one of those destructive things. Today I will lie down again tonight and find that I have done nothing for the Republic of Slovenia because I did not have a chance because I am dealing with things that are not positive. Of course, we have already had such a case in Slovenia. I'm sorry, too, from the same party. We had a case, if you remember, a constitutional accusation made by former President of the State of Danil Türk that he did not help Udba or it was known that he did not, but if he had not already helped plan to instill a CE bombing four decades ago, at least he knew about it and did not act. You can imagine the lesson. And when it turned out it wasn't any of it, it all wore off. Something similar, the President of the National Assembly, will happen to you after the vote. You won't be a "in" anymore, but you will be for the next six hours. I have to say that the National Assembly is a hostage of torn contexts, of forms, of various thoughts and, above all, of what I am most saddened, the parliamentary group knows what we are thinking when we say something. She just understands. And that's what I'm always afraid of, because I don't understand how they know anything if I haven't told anyone, like I think. It's one special art you just have to master, but I don't know where they're teaching it yet. The only thing I don't know is that I have to get there. This reflex, also mentioned in their explanation, is a totalitarian reflex. I have to say, it's a problem when we look in the mirror and we see ourselves and find out that it's a reflection of SDS. I must say that I am truly disappointed when the Berlin Wall is compared to the collapse of systems, with which, of course, I fully agree that we will not get things wrong. Again. But you know, there's nothing to help us if the Berlin Wall has fallen, if some walls are ever growing in our heads and can't be demolished and can't be crossed. And these walls will stay, so we'll have unfinished business. Such things, the President of the National Assembly, are sometimes to be ignored. I see you've been preparing for a serious discussion. That's right, but the result, apart from the vote that will be in your favor, is also by the Alliance, because we still believe and I must say that I am happy with this interview because now at least I know what your view is worth nothing more than if someone agrees to write a letter to the readers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected assembly, especially today's respected citizens and citizens! In the context of the 16th item of the 2nd regular meeting of the National Assembly, we will discuss and decide on the proposal of the SDS Group of Members for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez. The SDS Group bases its proposal on, I quote, "the official conduct of the President of the National Assembly wherever it is acting as President of the National Assembly." In doing so, the proposer, as the main evidence of the alleged heavy charges, is personally relying on the selected and in the context of Dr. Brglez's interview in the Youth Week. The debate, which will take place in the centre of Slovenian democracy over the next few hours, will in fact discuss the current face of Slovenian political culture. This will be a debate from which it will be possible to understand how individual political parties representing their constituents and voters understand politics and politics, what leads us in our work for the public good and, finally, what attitude we have towards the role and manner of Parliament's work. The dimension of the coming debate will speak for itself and will be a talkative indicator of the kind of political culture that political parties bring into Parliament by their thinking, action and debate. In today's debate, too, each parliamentary group will bear its own moral responsibility to its electorates and voters. We will also share the common moral responsibility of all our constituents and voters together, as well as the attitude we give to the Institute of the President of the National Assembly. The fundamental image on the basis of which a dominant pattern of political culture is built in one country is given by individual political institutions in the first place. An important picture is further developed by the media, which, according to its opinion, conveys selected images of the work of these political institutions, while the addressees and the third central builders of each political culture of one country give and are citizens and citizens themselves through our relationship to politics. This relationship is important based on the examples we get from observing the functioning of political institutions. In this assessment and in our further attitude to politics, we can appear as individuals, or as members of different associations, trade unions, economics, professional, non-governmental. A democratic political culture is considered to be based on respect for and commitment to the values of respectful, open, collaborative and collaborative action and debate, with a view to achieving higher and advanced civil development. The holders of such a political culture are all of the pillars just mentioned, and they are guided by the same goal to find the best possible ways of the future, based on the promotion of knowledge, ideas, democratic progress and not burdened by the agony of the past, but by hope and confidence in a better tomorrow. Contrary to what has been mentioned in the picture of the political culture of the so-called transition countries, it is considered that it does not know the clear limits of political life and that in such systems virtually any substantive debate will be politicised to blocks for and against or against ours and theirs. In such a political culture, politics does not save or reduce, not eliminate, but only deepens them through its continued action. The objective of this action is by no means better tomorrow, but primarily to strengthen its own strength and interests. In such a political culture, the fundamental democratic principles of respect for the division of power, as well as the limitations and, finally, the political bonton, are completely secondary. They're supposed to be a letter on paper. In countries with this kind of perception and approach to politics, attention is being diverted from addressing the fundamental problems of the country and its people, leading only to deepening conflicts, unrest and intolerance. Such action poses a crucial obstacle to the smooth future development of the country and to it by internal and external observers casts the worst possible image of politics and political, often and very unjustifiablely on the identity of the society represented and represented by such a policy. In the SMC Group, we have also been chosen by the electorate and electorate to oppose, warn, and prevent the newly described pattern of political action. The attitude towards and within the country, as shown today by the SDS Group, in the SMC Group, is seen as an unnecessary shift from what we all need today in the injured country for a better tomorrow: a well-intentioned, reasoned substantive debate and decision-making for a common better tomorrow for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u98	A respected choir! The long-standing experience of our people's unilateral political system and the alienation of a system of party democracy, which has never been fully adopted by individual segments of society, has led society to display parliamentary democracy as a separation. This is how Parliament is understood as an institution where Members are just fighting and doing nothing good. Because of these prejudices and the cumbersome adaptation of changes in the mentality of Members among people, it is only with difficulty that we gain confidence. Even harder in times of financial, economic and social crisis. The fact is, only in the last quarter of the century, when we have our own country, do we live in the wake of various political beliefs that should not have existed in the past. There is also a reason for distanced public relations to parliamentaryism and additional oil to fire flows to the fourth branch of government. This situation is encouraged and exploited by all those who are either unaware of the cultural dimensions of this issue or because of their emotional and beneficial attachment to the past, they are not capable of exceeding it. It is known that in post-socialist societies there is a considerable time gap between the transformation of the political system and the establishment of an appropriate political culture. The latter represents an important obstacle to faster social transformation at all levels of society. And it is this intermediate space, or time, that is a breeding ground for the emergence of attitudes and values that we cannot possibly consider to be democratic and self-sustaining. Calling for irrelevant ideological themes is simply proof of the lack of knowledge of the dimension that this mentality brings. Last but not least, this is reflected in the deep crisis of values in which our Slovenia was found. The thinking of those who feel that some of the themes do not have a place in Parliament and that they are detrimental to any time and energy of the Parliament is rejected. At the same time, it is their actions that indicate that we have missed or even consciously missed many things. Determining today's debate with the expression "second-rate" or even "necessary" is backward and suggests the immature democratic thinking of the one it utters. There is no way we can agree to the discussion that today's debate on the conduct of the President of the National Assembly is a departure from the current themes. On the contrary. It's more than important and necessary. Today's debate will not be the last time that we will send a strong message to citizens and citizens, what our relationship to the value centre of our nation is, what our relationship with the country is. And finally, we will talk about why we have not yet established a just society. The blame for society’s overly slow transformation is also found in the National Assembly or structures that have ruled virtually all the time. Today we have a chance to change that. This guilt is based not so much on the decisions of the National Assembly, but on the abandonment of decisions and the blinding of certain positions and facts that do not go in the context of the democratic thinking on which our country is based. And if we really want to achieve the goal and live in a fully democratic society, we must abandon the rhetoric of so-called second-class topics that are not meant to be relevant and necessary today. The Institute of the President of the National Assembly has a key role to play in this regard. This task was entrusted to Dr. Milan Brglez by the ruling Party of Mir Cerar. The President of the Government has justified this proposal by saying that Dr Milan Brglez, with his knowledge and wisdom, will make an important contribution to the country's further strategic development decisions, in which he will be guided by the values of tolerance, integration and honesty. According to the President of the Government, Dr Milan Brglez is sincerely committed to our country and to its citizens and citizens. On his own election, he stated that he was aware of the responsibility, for this city symbolically represents that most important point of the rule of the people. And this point of the rule of the people must be implemented in an appropriate manner. If in those words there is at least a fraction of the truth, Dr. Milan Brglez should, because of his statements in one of the media, resign himself or be relieved of his office as President of the National Assembly today. In his public position, he drew attention to his value system, which is in no way acceptable. To say that the former totalitarian country is a better type of country than Slovenia itself is a terrible departure from democracy and the rule of law that I am not talking about ethics and morality at all. Tolerating such views would mean our common consent to serious human rights violations and totalitarian methods. In extremely sensitive times, when citizens lose confidence in a just state and rule of law, we simply cannot afford it. Even more so because the Institute of the President of the National Assembly is being used. Today's debate and final vote will, first and foremost, be an indicator of the value system of each Member, his attitude towards the worst forms of human rights violations and his attitude towards the people's plebiscite and state-of-the-art decision. Our test is the democratic social order that we are committed to. The President of the National Assembly must not and cannot be someone who specialises in values belonging to another system, which the Slovenian people plebiscitefully rejected. Colleagues and colleagues! The State of Slovenia was born on the basis of democratic principles. The Preamble to the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independent and Independent Republic of Slovenia, the Declaration of Statehood, sets out other reasons for the independence and independence of our country, among them that the SFRJ did not act as a legal state and that it violated human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces. As a nation, we have shown extraordinary strength, courage and ability to create and create our own country. Above all, because of the great unity of the people, we have succeeded as the first former republics within the SFRY. We have also made this action a valuable breakthrough in the SFRJ and have taken a clear position on the creation of historical facts. It is therefore the position of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, that the historic decision for his own country was an unprofitable act, or a step back in the state of affairs, an unacceptable insult and humiliation of the Slovenian people. More. Such views point to an extremely worrying discourse and totalitarian reflex. Dr. Brglez's statement that post-war killings, which constitute the worst form of human rights violations, are a result of compliance with natural law and are a scandalous and sinister justification of crime and criminals. Of course, the law that belongs to Western civilization is in itself in righteousness. The taking of human life without a trial cannot be justified, not by positive law and even less by natural law. Until such justifications of genocide over their own nation, they should adopt zero tolerance. Such an excuse for crime has led us to an extremely perverse point when these crimes are being dealt with and condemned abroad, and we are looking for ways to ensure that these terrible acts will never be condemned and punished. The sympathy of the President of the National Assembly with the idea of revolution and waiting in ambush, when the moment will come for the blood march again, is just another threat to democracy. Tolerating such statements is the main reason why Slovenia cannot shake the shackles of the past and that the transition in Slovenia has failed. Confirmation of this is the slide of Slovenia on all international performance scales and there is virtually nothing left of the success story. This is best done by an ineffective judicial system, which is also reflected in a number of judgments that Slovenia loses before the European Court of Human Rights. However, the abuse and adjustment of the judicial system is only the most visible in the mounted process with the sole aim of expelling the leader of the opposition, a few days before the elections. Your Honor! The key problem we have all this time is that we have failed to set clear rules and agree on what else we can tolerate and where the unacceptable field begins. This does not necessarily require written rules, sufficient common sense and a loving and responsible view of our country. Today, Your Honor, is the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to everyone in the hall! I estimate that today, at this time, it would probably be more useful to discuss any topic concerning the current problems of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But that was the choice of some in this hall. They say that the truth quickly becomes in people’s eyes if you only repeat it for a long time. It's sad, but it's true many times. For this reason, in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have decided not to repeat in our position the observations put forward by the applicants for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly in explanation. So that it's not just in the domain of inter-classical interpretation, when everyone can explain it in their own way, I'll be clear. All 10 Members and Members of our Group estimate that these findings are completely unfounded. They're distorting, they're misleading, they're not real, and there's something else you can say. The President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, was already receiving the unanimous support of our Group of Members at the first meeting of this term. Indeed, there was no opportunity to learn, and before that we did not have this opportunity, but we were convinced by his professional references and the fact that Miro Cerar had shown him so much confidence that he had proposed him to serve as President of the National Assembly. We know him now as a man and as an expert. And the current President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, has, since his confirmation, continued to demonstrate the trust of a worthy man, an impartial leader of the entire National Assembly, who respects Slovenia's rule of law and acts in a coherent manner, while at the same time taking care of the credibility and reputation of our country throughout the international community. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that we have confirmed for the President of the National Assembly the right person who successfully and responsibly carries out the tasks entrusted to him and who, despite the politically upset and difficult economic situation, is always trying to find a broader political consensus for making important decisions for the benefit of people and countries as well as for such. President Milan Brglez, on this occasion, on behalf of our Group of Members, I should like to thank you for all the work you have done so far in the National Assembly, which runs properly under your leadership, and for all the tolerance you show in situations where many of us might even react significantly differently. Thank you, and may I wish you, on behalf of the Desus Group, much more success in continuing my work in the National Assembly. I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular how Members and Members of our Group will act when we vote. At this point, I originally intended to end with the position of our Group of Members, but this is simply not going to work. There is no way that I can silence the position of the entire parliamentary group on the functioning or conduct of the proposer. In this way, it has never been my custom to discuss it in my third term. I'm not, like I said, the new guy in the paper. From experience, I can say that such a way of working with which I cannot agree in any way in the Desus Group is served by more or less only the SDS Group of Members, and only when it is found in the opposition. It was only a matter of time before the biggest opposition party decided once again to request that it be the President of the National Assembly in this case, either the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister or the Minister of Government to intercede. It doesn't have to be in such order as I did a little while ago. This time it is true that the current president of the National Assembly, who, I will be very specific, has made some statements in an interview for one of the Slovenian weeks that the opposition has managed to break out of context. In your low style, use his words and use them as a reason to request a recall. Colleagues and colleagues! You did not last a hundred days from the establishment of the National Assembly until your request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez. The requests for discharge of the highest officials in the Republic of Slovenia have already become a constant and permanent tool by your party, which you use to discredit other thinkers. Without shame, they manipulate the spoken words, statements and actions of these persons, all within the reach of their goal, who would know? It is about revenge because the party whose member is the President of the National Assembly has so strongly defeated all the other parties — including the SDS in the elections. This is an expression of envy because they do not have the power to seize the most important functions in the country, or is it possible to be angry because they have too few Members to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly every two days without the support of other opposition parties. At times, the opposition was considered to be constructive, and this time the composition is completely the opposite. I'm talking, of course, about the biggest opposition party there's gonna be no mistake. With most other opposition parties, there is a possibility of debate and dialogue, even though we are all different on the shores. I believe that the fact that your President has landed in prison because of his actions is an extremely difficult burden for you. However, it is not appropriate for his loyal followers to rely on all others and try to discredit them in all possible ways. Because of your statements to be made at the meetings of the working bodies, at the meetings of the assembly in the media, wherever it appears that you want to help Slovenia on the path of progress from the crisis, I ask you whether you believe that your actions contribute to increasing Slovenian competitiveness, to reducing unemployment, in general to a higher level of prosperity for our citizens and citizens. Do we, with our actions and our mutilating one another, prove to our citizens that we are doing our best to find solutions that will ensure future security for all generations? No, no, no. On the contrary. By doing so, we push Slovenia even deeper into the abyss, people will feel even more alone in their tribulations, and with a policy that deals only with itself, they will find our country's situation even more hopeless. With such and similar debates as this one today, we have lost a lot of valuable time. We're gonna lose him today, too. Meanwhile, our health is collapsing, young people remain unemployed, the elderly are left without the care that is urgently needed. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware of the situation in which we are and, above all, the hardships experienced by the weakest groups of the population. That's why we don't agree to this. On the contrary, we actively advocate for the protection of the weak, whether pensioners, unemployed, workers, young and sick. Therefore, let me conclude with a question addressed to all here at this Chamber: Are we able to bridge each other's differences and, in cooperation, find constructive effective solutions for the start of the Slovenian economy? Are we able to ensure a secure future for all generations without constantly measuring our power on the political floor and on the endless accusations and instigations? I answer myself that I am capable. In both Desus and the group, we answer that we are capable of doing so. We are able to forget about past divisions, we are able to act only for the benefit of our people and we are able to put our hand in a sign of reconciliation and give it. Let us bend our sleeves and, for God's sake, begin to do what we were sent to do, to care for the welfare and dignity of all our Slovenes and Slovenes. To each of you on the right, on the left, and here in the front, I am prepared to offer my hand in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! We regret that the beginning of this term of office of the National Assembly is so marked and, in particular, so marked by the themes which, with respect, share us. Who are completely needless to disturb our people and in nothing, but in no way do they help to improve the plight of many of our peoples and peoples of our country. The last championship should be dedicated to our work, the work here in the National Assembly, but unfortunately it's not. So today and again, we will be listening and listening all day long, and we will rightly listen to many of the criticisms of the people on the ground, the criticisms of the media in the way that we don't know anything, that we can't agree on anything or that we can't deal with ourselves. Therefore, in this place, I would like to say that the Social Democrats are not the party that promotes and fills the agenda of meetings with such topics and, as a result, forces in political accounting in one way or another to be seasoned with ideological themes or omens. We're not that kind of client, and we won't. This does not mean, my dears, that we do not have an opinion on these and similar topics. On the contrary, our position is clear and unequivocal, so let me also introduce it below. The proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly is already, you will not believe, a third such proposal in the last few years, which, according to our assessment and my assessment, is extremely large. Finally, the President of the National Assembly for the President of the Republic is the second highest position in the country. I stress this because the institution of discharge of the President of the National Assembly should be a very serious matter, which would, in the first place, be professionally justified and supported by evidence of breaches of obligations or powers imposed on it by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia imposed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and imposed by the applicable legislation. The multiplicity of such proposals over a relatively short period of time, however, mainly points to the attitude of the applicants towards the discharge institute itself and also to the role of the President of the National Assembly. Let me just remind you that in the spring of 2010 and one more year later, the National Assembly had already decided to dismiss the then President of the National Assembly, Dr Paul Gantar. At this meeting, we will decide on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez. However, the joint nominees of all three proposals are certainly at least two, but I believe that we will be able to add a third after this meeting. The first common denominator, my dears, is, you won't believe, the proponents and their attitude towards the highest functions in the country. Over and over again, a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and I must say that it is understandable that the group of signatories in the proposal is smaller and that the proposers and their party colleagues from previous mandates have shown their attitude to the leadership positions in the National Assembly, as well as in general to the highest public functions in the country and to the individuals who perform these functions. This relationship, however, is very unfair, often duplicity, and in this mandate is also eloquent with a broken promise. But all the time, it has the only constant, and these are the political criteria for SDS, which are reflected in concrete actions and do not know a bit of constructiveness or state-building, although colleagues from the SDS are very fond of citing. This is justified by the conduct of the SDS in the National Assembly in the past period, which give a sufficiently eloquent witness to themselves. Immediately after July's parliamentary elections, this party was publicly, but really publicly, very strongly committed not to taking over leadership functions in the National Assembly. And the promise, my dears, has not lasted more than a month and a half. It didn't work. The consequences already appear in many violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular by the President, who comes from the types of SDS, in the conduct of one of the working bodies of the National Assembly. It further says a lot about constructiveness, a little bit more to the contrary, including the resignation of the Vice-President of the SDS in the previous term, when she resigned at a time when it was more or less clear that she would be elected as a Member of the European Parliament. A very brave, very determined, very constructive move, nothing. Then I cannot go beyond the two SDS proposals already mentioned for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Ganttar, which was all before that was a state-of-the-art one. Let's move on. Even in the mandate, when SDS was the largest party, the National Assembly did not fail in such unconstructive conduct, not to mention tradition. In 2007, the current coalition led by the SDS, despite repeated attempts, failed or failed to support the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Social Democrats, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the largest opposition parliamentary group. It's done it twice. If we add to that a constitutional charge against the President of the Republic in 2010, a number of interpretations on the work and responsibility of individual ministers, and a number of calls by the Slovenian Democratic Party for the resignation or discharge of the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General and the heads of independent state bodies, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Information Commissioner, then, my dears, we get a debt but a really long list of people with whom this party unfortunately is not satisfied, which is obviously a sufficient reason to resolve. However, such a list and the past practices described were, whether they wanted or not, the identity card of the largest opposition party and much more so say about it alone than those individuals that the party wishes to resolve. Apparently, Dr. Milan Brglez was also on this list. The other common denominator, however, is the fact that all these solutions are highly politically motivated. A different conclusion from the material presented and from public publications, accusations and answers is simply not possible. In the opinion of the President of the National Assembly, and even after the conviction of the signatories, the request for his discharge would violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, its Fundamental Constitutional Charter on Independence and Independence and modern democratic values. However, they learned about this from an extensive interview at the Youth Week, where the President, Mr Brglez, expressed his thoughts, views and conclusions. In a mental context, they also address various issues related to the regulation and social situation in the former common country and the social situation in Slovenia after its independence. It has not been necessary, my dears, for a long time that many critics, some without a name, have responded to this interview, but rather under the headings of various civil society movements or societies. In response to many criticisms, the President of the National Assembly has explained several times, and even today, virtually every word he has said could not avoid various forms of misdirection if you want, deliberate deception and even instilling individual thoughts and words that he has never uttered. So it probably doesn't make sense to convince someone who doesn't want to hear, know, or who just doesn't understand. However, it may be concerned that some thus enjoy using methods of deception and discredit, which they often associate with another, totalitarian time. This just proves that the solution proposal is a politically motivated process and that the applicants of the discharge must also ask for their own principled hold or, rather, for their own inadvertentness. Today, the biggest problem with the violation of the Constitution in what the President of the National Assembly said in an interview for the Youth Week, but never, on the other hand, for the applicant and their fellow Members in previous mandates, was the problematic election of the President of the National Assembly of his own kind, who, a few years prior to the appointment of this important position in the country, read and explained all the good intentions of the House of Defence and, later, in his capacity as President of the National Assembly, prevented the constitutional right of 30 Members to establish their own investigative commission. So much, my dears, about this principle of the SDS Group and the double criteria. At the time of Dr Milan Brglez's nomination as President of the National Assembly, we stressed that we would like to elect a candidate to serve the full mandate and to carry out it with all the necessary conscience and responsibility. Dr. Brglez got a lot of support, we can even talk about a constitutional majority. During this time, Dr. Brglez, in his work as President of the National Assembly, strengthened our confidence, so there is no reason, nor is there any reason for his dismissal. We will therefore oppose the resolution within the Group of Members, and we hope and believe that this proposal for a discharge will be given to a third common denominator. Indeed, in the first two proposals for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, the applicants were not successful. We believe it won't be any different this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. First, I must apologize to the universal Slovenian public, who will listen to this. The presentation of this position will be the worst today. Why — because I am extremely harsh today. I've been away for two days with a delegation of the National Assembly in Vienna, I've come back, I'm really a member of politics now, but I hope I have the right to a bad day. Thanks for understanding. There has already been a lot of talk about concern today, and I am also very concerned, not just being squeamish, I wonder if we are in the National Assembly or if we are on Slovenian comedy days. Colleague Brglez is the first one in the National Assembly, but nevertheless, let's look at the face of all together – a little Levinas for introduction, only without books. Soon this call of the National Assembly will take place in the fifth month of operation. What have we been doing so far? The Coalition and, in particular, the Mir Cerar Party deals mainly with the problems of recruitment, the largest opposition party dealing with the fate of their President and thus adequately occupys almost the entire work of an important commission, of course it is legal and legitimate, but it does not open up for this society an urgent, important topic. For example, we do not have a 21st century development strategy for the Republic of Slovenia. We're in 2014, if anyone forgets. One more case. By March 2015, they say from governmental species, I quote, "we must give the European Commission a smart specialisation strategy." But we're talking about her. Did we have a discussion? Are we discussing what kind of economic development we want? The first regular session of the Committee on the Economy will only be held on 4 December – if you have forgotten. Are they writing it on the government because, again, I quote, "we have to give it up," or because we need it? Where is the public debate on it? I don't see what we read in the media, but in the Journal, it seems to me that that proposal is pretty lame. Now, if the opposition wants to have a concrete and constructive debate, we or – although it is said that we are some kind of satellite, I don't know which one, I would like to be the one that was just launched – for the first time, voted or, for the second time, played as in the case of police issues, which is what colleague Kozlovich played for her. We are on our way to the third recession, and with this and that, I would call it quite the NGOs and its policy, which is assisted by the coalition and unfortunately also partly by the opposition anaemic part of the National Assembly, I am very worried and even more deplorable when I read it now. Debt will be deepened, the planned measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will put out the current economic development. However, to the President of the National Assembly, my colleague Brglez, we could feel that he is not encouraging, not initiating serious debates and allowing too many procedural discussions if I quote someone on my right, "pobalinski" – the end of the quote – small games and I hope that in this, colleague Brglez will change and improve. I can continue and say, if the United Left based on everything that has been said in the media and written about us, what calvary we have for Slovenia and so on, including some embarrassing statement about grass from the above-mentioned interview in Mladina – we will also deal with hemp at the United Left, indeed – we could go to a similar point in the agenda for a meeting of the National Assembly, we could extend this meeting for at least three, four days. But there are incomparably more important topics that we want to open for the people. That is why we will not participate in these kind of dramatists we are witnessing today, the dramatists that the vast majority of citizens and citizens have not enough, but too many. "I'm going to throw up," said the lady on the train today. You are probably also interested in how we will vote in the United Left Group, and this, my dears and dears, is stated in the first indent of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. A colleague — a good Tank has remained in the hall, and this is primarily for him and everyone else — we urgently need a revolution, let us stop blinding ourselves. Without a revolution, we would still live in caves without fire and light of reason. We need a revolution and at least a small candle of reason in our heads in the National Assembly. Unlike the rest of us in the United Left coalition, we are now and will be an ideological coalition, an ideological coalition of people and people. We will not continue to participate in today's debate. I gave you four minutes and twenty seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Tanko as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable introductorys! When I listen to these debates that we have had so far, I feel like the intervention of the Slovenian Democratic Party is today. We have done nothing of this in the current part of the mandate, no such thing as to enable us to deal with us in such a way, and in particular the interpretation of the Slovenian Democratic Party - Mr Han and others - would say Mrs Lipicer - is not a item of the agenda, but is the point of the agenda for the interpretation of the President of the National Assembly and the actions that have been caused or the statements that have been made for one of the low-level media in the Republic of Slovenia. First, about the obvious so we can deal with something else instead. Dear colleagues, what is the point or would it be instead of this agenda item? What do you suggest? What did you submit? What economic theme, what other topic? You didn't submit anything. You said earlier that we would be happy to discuss another subject, that we had a point of justice, and that was the same statement. So you're not suggesting that we discuss these matters in any other way. The Slovenian Democratic Party said that it would not make it difficult for the government to work – not in the first hundred days; but the President of the National Assembly is Parliament for more than a hundred days. Those who speak of political culture would do well to at least resist or rely on what political culture is. The frontal attack on the Slovenian Democratic Party by all the parliamentary groups, because we have tabled, on the basis of statements made by the President of the National Assembly, an interpretation, is a real proposal for the discharge of the President, but it is not a wrong political culture. We have tabled this because we want the culture of the highest authority in the country, that is, democratic authorities in the country, and this is the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with constitutional arrangements. We did not propose anything else, nor did we base our case on anything else. All those who have identified what is enshrined in the individual provisions of the Constitution, I suggest you read it again and quote the President of the National Assembly. We really didn't present the whole tape of all these statements, we could put some more together, but we did give and stand those key points from this interview. No one among you has denied or said that we have done anything wrong in this part or that these statements are not written down. That's exactly what they are, and no one has argued with any of the things that we can understand otherwise. Speaking of what all Slovenia needs during this period, we have been waiting for you for more than two months. You have not proposed anything; not as a parliamentary group, not as a party, but as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All the acts, or more or less, the core of all the acts we have dealt with so far in the National Assembly, are only one thing: the resolution or determination of the impropriety or withdrawal of the mandate of our President, Janez Janša. All of you sitting here have so far dealt with the only developmental topic, and this is Mr Janša's elimination from the political space. Have you proposed anything other than a balance that should not even be prepared, as Möderndorfer says? Anything else?Oh, my God! All the complications you are presenting to us, Mr President of the National Assembly, and you have said this in the introduction to the functioning of the National Assembly, are exclusively procedural in nature that you, as the largest party in the National Assembly, have afforded yourself. All matters related to some nonsense, mistakes, blockades and so on are linked to the decision of the government coalition and some other parties. Including the fact that we do not have a supervisory commission over security intelligence services. You took away our party's president's mandate on October 5th, if I'm not mistaken. The request was made at the time or later, but when I asked you to give me a constitutional, legal and commercially compatible proposal for a discharge decision, you have not answered me yet. It also says a lot because for what you asked us to do or ask us to do, you can't find, you can't invent a legal basis on which to argue. It is obvious that somehow the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that is plaguing and obstructing the work of the National Assembly that they are not holding back. We have not taken a single concrete step in the direction of, I don't know, interpolation or anything, but we will now have no idea how many times a problem or you have a problem preparing the Minister of Economy. Without one concrete, any action by our Group of Members. So, do not cast acts or impute acts that you are unable to prepare, that you are not able to prepare, and that you are not able to prepare, or that you are able to do, in substance, to someone who is not involved in this work, I think that we have not yet been included in the statement if we have not been specifically asked and challenged. This seems to me to be a particular problem of political culture, Mrs Kustec – to assign to someone something he has not done. The inability to form a government after two months is not the problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is in opposition, this is the problem of the Prime Minister and the biggest government party. That's your problem. We're victims. We and the whole country are victims of what the government doesn't do or do too slowly. So it would be good if you were in these things, I will say, at least so reasonable and look at what you have done and what you are missing, that after two months at all and something else complete and work for the good of Slovenia; what you think you want to do, but it is not. When you talk about ethics and other things, you might want to take a little look at your staff pool of people you've proposed for important functions. If one of the key functions in this country is assigned to someone for whom the Court of Auditors has found that he has violated eleven of these eight laws, then this cannot be a good certificate for the government of Mira Cerar. This is final, this was the final report of the Court of Auditors. I think that's a big problem. When you talk about us and these matters, the following: If you want to talk about the future, then you need to make a law and a solution. From the statements you made here, not one was about the future, but all about the history of the Slovenian Democratic Party, you were all talking about it; from the President of the National Assembly, who spent two thirds or more of his time talking about the SDS, instead of talking about his statements which are the subject of this interpretation. None of you have commented on these statements. I'm afraid they're gone. It is understandable that you all agree that this must be the case. If someone advocates that our country is a step back from the previous country, then it means that the virtues that have held together the previous country are a step forward from the virtues of ethics, legality, constitutionality, to the country that we now have. This follows directly from this. If nationality is a problem, if nationality is at issue, then you probably think that we no longer need these countries, because the foundation for this state-of-the-art state-of-the-art is the creation of a state. What happened in the country after it was created is also a kind of problem; but we are not talking about it in this part: unrealized transition or unfinished transition, red monopolies that control the whole scene, also your client and so on. This is the problem of this country and this is also the problem that lustration has not been performed. Mr President, your statement that we now have a set of small interests instead of one country-specific one cannot be understood, in my opinion, how different from the one we explained in the proposal's introduction. If interests, pluralism, if what is the basis of democracy is a problem for the President of the National Assembly of a Democratic State, then I do not know what is on the other hand. On the other hand, are there any other interests? Then there's only one more interest, just like the bug and everyone behind it. And that concept that was before 1991 didn't prove to be a success. Comparably, every year since the World War II victorious country, we have lost with all the defeats of World War II. It hasn't been a few years. We've already been gastrophobics in the greatest defeat of World War II. Now let someone explain success, and I don't know, but credibility is the quality heritage of that former country! It is impossible to understand it in this way – otherwise than the natural disaster that has been built in Slovenia continues and continues. In short, when all Europe unites in the condemnation of totalitarian regimes, go to any European country that was created at the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall, you have the example of Warsaw, the example of Prague, celebrating the collapse of the totalitarian system everywhere, and in a truly worthy, appropriate way. Nations are joining together, and we are strengthening some of the values that have definitely caused a lot of distress in this country. Definitely. In the history of mankind, there is no greater collective suicide, as was the suicide after World War II on Slovenian soil. Nearly 100,000 dead in such a small space, but there is one, one that would have been told that he was involved in this plague. And you know who, you've processed who? So if it wasn't murder, then it could just be suicide! And for those 100,000 who fled across the border, we can figure something out. And the fact is that the previous country was not built in a democratic way, and the ever-increasing event is part of this and was equally prepared through secret official papers and something else. In short, magnifying things that have proved to be a problem means talking with some enthusiasm about these matters, with definitions that are not good, with emphasis that are not right, does not mean anything more than wanting to keep these matters at the centre of political work in every way. Unfortunately, now that someone understands this differently, if these statements by the President of the National Assembly are understood by someone as critics of the totalitarian system, let them say so. If I look at the constitution and the statement, if I look at the preamble and the statement, one, the other, or the third or the fifth, none of it goes with it. And sit on the chair, right there, in the name of democracy! It's not a congregation. If I were to sit there in the previous regime, I would go there naturally with these statements. In the situation in which we are, in the form of the government we are in, it is not natural that the President of the National Assembly there is the one who advocates or improves the bad things of our past history and the regime that has caused them. That's the problem. If you do not know this in the coalition, then the opposition must help you to this enlightenment. Mr Han could also help you, he had previously confused some of these points, including with regard to the lack of confirmation by the President or the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. You forgot. Do you know when it first happened that someone wasn't confirmed? When Mr Rupel went from LDS to SDS and we proposed him as President of the National Assembly, then your client was in the coalition and you did not confirm him. Now, if you're reading, then chronology needs to be taken from the beginning to the end. Above all, Mr President of the National Assembly, everything you have said in your introduction does not answer, nor does it explain any of the quotations from your interview. You haven't explained a single thing! Not one. Of course true and postwar killings, revolutionary ideas and so on – this is not in our constitution. Even those things that I've counted before and you've kind of done it in some way, not in some way, but in a positive way, you've certainly not even tried to comment, but everyone else. All these things you say, you only do by throwing a problem on the SDS, something in the current policy, something in the process work, something in other things. You are the one who is most responsible for the operation of this country, you have not done anything now in these five months, or four, after the constitution of the National Assembly, except that the National Assembly is not perfect. That was your only success. On the other hand, you are waking up and encouraging these debates yourself, which you call ideological debates. The interview of the President of the National Assembly is typically an ideological interview. Typical ideological. After we respond, you say we deal with these things. You are consciously doing everything that is contrary to our constitutional order, triggering responses, which is perfectly normal, regardless of your heart's totalitarian ideas, but you will surely run into and run into the democratic response in a way that is perfectly normal for parliamentary democracy. If this agenda item were not in line with the rules, the President of the National Assembly would probably reject it. But I expect the President to explain these matters. This is what we want, not just us, and an important part of civil society has turned to you. I have also turned to you, and unfortunately, there are some relevant, useful arguments on the basis of which we would or would not have been able to change our minds, either ourselves or any of us. So far, everything we've written down is relevant and standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that the complainant's findings are unfounded. I am underlining this by assessing that the statement is definitely taken out of the context and, at the same time, by the explanation given by the President of the National Assembly. Of course, I must say that I do not have experience with the previous Presidents of the National Assembly, because for the first time in the National Assembly, although I personally know some of the previous Presidents, I cannot judge or compare what the current President of the National Assembly is like compared to them. All I can say is that, for my taste and for my vision, he carries out his mission more than correctly. At the beginning, we decided to confirm the proposed candidate, now the president of the Milan Brglez National Assembly. I didn't know him personally, but I made up my mind. Maybe that's when I confirmed the cat in the jacket, if I may make a little joke on this occasion. But today, now that I have had the opportunity to meet him personally and when I had the opportunity to see him at his work, I must say that I made the right decision and, of course, I would have made that decision once again. However, if I am a little critical here, even to Milan's work, I can only find out that he is too tolerant of all of you many times, or if you want to, to all of us, when we use many times, that I will not say we are using some business regulations, leave us to the end, to discuss and, in the end, warn us that we have gone a little beyond the context. A man is affected by these eyewitnesses of yours, and that's what he sees, and that's not right. It is not right to break an ideological spear on the shoulders of an individual, even though it is the President of the State, even though it is the President of the Government, even though it is the President of the National Assembly. If, at the previous point, when we spoke about justice in our country, I agreed that it was right or that there was nothing wrong to discuss, but I must say at this point that I find this debate inappropriate or unnecessary today, if I say so kindly. Mr. President of the National Assembly, dear Milan, you continue to have my support, I wish you much happiness and much success in your work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Honourable President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Today we are deciding on a proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, and I would like to say a few words about what we are deciding what this violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the violation of the Constitution, the law, which is obvious. Therefore, the procedure for discharge of officials under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be laid down in paragraphs 199 and 201. Article 199. provides for the election of the President of the National Assembly and Article 201 provides for the discharge by the National Assembly of officials elected and appointed under the Constitution, law or rules of procedure in the National Assembly, in accordance with the procedure laid down for the election or appointment, unless otherwise provided for for in the resolution. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for a special procedure for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. Therefore, there are no detailed reasons for the discharge. What could possibly be the reason for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly? These can be found on the basis of the interpretation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure stipulate that the President represents the National Assembly, which we can explain in such a way as to represent the entire National Assembly, i.e. all of Slovenia and its citizens. The reason for the resolution could only be such a serious breach, which would constitute a violation that constitutes a reason, say, for the termination of the parliamentary mandate after us a very well-known Article 9 of the Law on Members. Such a case could be the case if the President of the National Assembly committed, for example, a crime against the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and its democratic constitutional order under Chapter 33 of the Penal Code — you can look at it if you do not know it — such as treason, assault on the independence of the State, and the protection of violent changes in constitutional arrangements. Such an example could be if convicted of corruption or abuse of function. You are well aware that such a procedure against Mr Milan Brglez has not been and will not be, because, of course, nothing that the President has stated in a controversial interview in Mladina can be the reason for the complaint. Nor does any action by the President of the National Assembly give rise to any charges being brought against him. Let's see, something has already been mentioned, what is parliamentary practice, why the discharges of the Presidents of the National Assembly have been proposed so far. According to my information, this was four times, and every time they're proposing, SDS. in the discharge proposals, reference is made to the fact that the President of the National Assembly is to commit a concrete violation of the rules of procedure of the State Assembly, in order to violate the rights of Members in the proceedings of the National Assembly. None of these proposals have been successful. Otherwise, it was a matter of allegedly preventing the debate from being debated by the Members, then because of the alleged violation of Article 85 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the failure to call an extraordinary meeting, then the re-examination of certain opposition requirements for the convening of an extraordinary meeting and the fifth reason for the convening of a regular meeting. We know that this is not the case, so based on parliamentary practice, the current parliamentary practice, we cannot say that such a reason exists here. On the contrary, the President of the National Assembly, Milan Brglez, always acts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and thus allows for a democratic debate in Parliament. Last but not least, representatives of the parliamentary groups said this in previous presentations of their views. Therefore, from the point of view of Parliamentary practice so far, we cannot say that such a reason exists. The responsibility of the President of the National Assembly is, of course, political and cannot be interpreted so widely as to have its legal effect interpreted in such a way that the President's statement constitutes a reason to resolve itself simply because it is interpreted by one political party who is not entrusted by the electorate to the leadership of the State. The President of the National Assembly himself made an argument for Youth and also explained to the applicants, explained its context, so there is no reason for them to understand it differently than it was given, as it is bound by its high function. He presented it as a politician and a top-notch expert on the area he was talking about. Therefore, it is simply an explanation of one group of Members, which, by its words to the cities of the market in the context and on purpose, leaves out parts of the statement which then changes the meaning of the declaration, cannot be the reason for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, not at the beginning of his term of office, in which he has already clearly indicated that he will act in a coherent manner. Remember, this showed at the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 25 August this year, when he pointed out that the European Parliament had adopted a declaration on 23 September 2008 to declare the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism and drew attention to the importance of this declaration. Therefore, it is unnecessary to even ask the question of its resolution, and we are dealing with this issue here today, that is, the National Assembly. It is unnecessary at a time when we have important decisions ahead of us, such as the budget rebalancing and other matters that have a fatal impact on the lives of people in Slovenia, on the lives of all of us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us ask what a concrete proposal is for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. It is intended to destabilise the institution itself of the President of the National Assembly and thereby destabilize the country itself, create the appearance of an emergency situation in Slovenia. Nobody wants one of these. We need to focus on solving the problems, not on creating them ourselves, and then on discussing them in a fruitless manner for hours and hours. I reject the tendency to do this over and over again. We accept all the constructive proposals to solve the problems that are at stake, but we do not accept the tendency to deal with problems that are not. Unfortunately, we have to deal with them, because this has become a political problem at a time when, at national level, this proposal is included on the agenda of the National Assembly and you do not want to reject such proposals, we have to deal with them in accordance with the rules of procedure, we have to discuss them. Since the SMC Party is committed to stability in Slovenia and to the gradual progress of the country, we will vote against the discharge of Dr. Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly, because this model is more than appropriate for the function he performs and because we do not want to destabilise the functioning of the country through the destabilisation of an important state body such as the National Assembly. During this critical time for the Slovenian country in all respects, this was the statement made yesterday by a fellow member from the SDS party, we must keep an eye on what we must focus on: on stabilisation and through it on the prosperity of Slovenia and not on creating extraordinary circumstances. We propose that we all focus our strength together on deciding what matters are ahead of us, that is to say, in the future. Even today, we could save, we could calculate how much money it costs to deal here one day with two topics that are most likely to be rejected – one that did not need to be voted on – if we are already worried about how much tax money is spent, let us also worry that we are spending it here today in the void. So, I propose and call for us, who have the power to solve problems, to solve them too. Let us not use our own strength from the people to deal with ourselves. Let us focus all our strength on the debate on the real problems that plague us, and thus gain the confidence of the citizens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable, respectable! I read an article or interview with Dr. Milan Brglez, who according to the applicants is the basis for his request for his discharge as President of the National Assembly. Certain answers to the questions raised are close to me, some less. I'd ask him questions for certain answers, but I'm not the reporter who interviewed him. But I do know that what someone says, they can interpret exactly what he meant by that, just by himself. Man has not yet developed the ability to read thoughts to others. But it is likely that each one of us interprets the individual words, the sentences, just as he wants to understand them. Nevertheless, the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, has repeatedly explained exactly each of his words, as stated in an article in Youth, and there are still many interpreters of his thoughts. The gain of democracy is also that everyone can say what he wants, but I do not agree that it can be the basis for a proposal to be resolved by any function of interpretation, what anyone meant by saying. As Vice-President, I may have a little more chance to work with the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez. I believe that cooperation is correct. Those words in an interview in Youth may not, in my opinion, be the reason for his dismissal. I have my own view of our history, my own opinion, my own views on my daughter, and I try not to impose my views on her. But he probably feels what I agree with and what I condemn, what I understand, and what are the events, actions that I will never understand. I hope that by telling her about past events, I will awaken her love of history, for all history since we've known her. You can ask me why. Because history is important, especially in order to learn from it, not to make the same mistakes and to learn about what was good; the view must be forward: today, here, in the development of Slovenia. Parliament is one of the most important institutions that not only can but must work for the good of Slovenia, so we are here to work. The National Assembly is also intended to exchange opinions, opinions from individual Members and Members of Parliament; it is the same. However, it would be right to use this diversity to make the solution that we could come together even better. We have difficult subjects ahead of us, very difficult ones, but perhaps today it is not thrown away. We give people the opportunity to create their own opinions about what we say and what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u114	Good-bye to all of you again. It is very interesting to listen to a discussion that discusses everything possible, but very little about what is the subject of what everyone should be talking about today. For today, as it should be, we have talked in the SDS about values, and today this debate should be about values, about the basis of the country, about what is the basis for the constitution, about actions, about culture, about everything, and about statehood itself. For the value of patriotism is the value which everyone puts first in the words. The former President of the country, the current President of the State, all former Presidents of the governments, including the Prime Minister, spoke about this. In short, we all agree on one point — that patriotism is a value that is of special importance, which is outstanding. More than in Slovenia, respect for patriotism as values is present in other democratic countries. Sometimes this leads to jesting because of misunderstandings. We have seen this in Parliament, not in this reference, when we talked about how, say, in the United States, they raise the flag, even in kindergartens, how they celebrate, when they prepare for the celebration of Statehood Day, from small feet, if you want, to universities; in short, everyone. And then the community comes back to life as one. But everyone is aware of something — what their country's real birthday is. And in Slovenia it is the birthday of Slovenia alone, this is the day of independence, materialized on the day of statehood. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! There's no history here. We can say what was in Austro-Hungarian and what was in a previous country, and there is no continuity, because those who attacked us – for all who are too young to know it, and such is already quite something in this House – had a red star on their wings and a sickle and hammer. From those red-star planes, they were throwing cluster bombs, which is a crime under international law, they were firing missiles at civilians, which is a crime under international law, consciously, and we defeated them and drove them out with the help of the international community and great unity. No one who is in any state function has the slightest right to do so in any way to sidetrack or to fabricate history. We talk about this very little in the National Assembly, and the result is that patriotism is perceived as something else, which is in fact – as a positive attitude towards its own country, which is one of its own, it is Slovenia. Even worse, at least I personally feel that way when we do not have that common human respect for the past and when we misapply with concepts. Well, in this case, it's a particularly awkward thing to do if someone who's a university professor is doing it and should be able to master these concepts. What's the concept of natural law? Anyone who finishes the FDV knows that. The concept of natural law was developed just as a counterweight to the totalitarian legal state, specifically, for example, Nazi Germany, where everything was done by law – this is what I explained at the previous point of the agenda – and there were horrendous crimes, incomprehensible crimes that literally take away the breath that turn the stomach of every normal person. But everything was in the letter of the law; everything was in line with their Constitution at the time, with laws, acts, everything was legally covered in nullity. The rule of law has acted more than any other legal country in this world. For this reason, I would point out that the rule of law is nothing in itself if it does not respect human values. As a result of this, the concept of natural law, which against this criminal law, has been developed, criminal law has established that natural law based on human values: respect for life, respect for human dignity, all the rights that are now enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, are understood to be self-sufficient. This is really what the original meaning was, and today it is still used in the profession of natural law. And to talk about how it was eradicated, criminally, certain groups of people for material gain, so that you could consolidate your power after the war was over, and that in any way connect with the concept of natural law – no matter how you turn it now, it reminds me little of that second-rate topic and the excuse of that expression, which is very similar, only the parallels are drawn – it is inappropriate, it is also unprofessional and is unworthy. However, someone who is in high office in the National Assembly should be aware of the consequences of his actions. A mistake occurs to everyone, but if a mistake is very big, severe and obvious, it should be at least enough for everyone to draw the consequences, the responsibility. But in a given case, instead of an explanation, instead of an excuse, we were only witnesses to confirm that, at the beginning of this session, when the old rule is, from the height, it turns out, or, as it were, the Bible says, the puff is one of the principal sins. Those who were inappropriate could also mistakenly use such words, referring to those who had been warned, long and hard to do, with so much arrogance that it was something completely unacceptable and should have been the reason for its resolution. Such a relationship has no one who should be neutral in running the National Assembly to have the right to any political group in the National Assembly. Of course, this is in line with some of the atmosphere that is being created in Slovenia, which at this point requires the contempt and destruction of everyone and everyone and their families, which has to do with the SDS, to prove their red credibility. That's what she is right now, let's say, official media policy. One hate speech itself, and it was also a hate speech in one part, if I may tell you, according to European criteria. That is why I understand the hardships of all those who today advocate this that you have avoided this darkness, because of course you cannot defend it and you know it. When it comes to values, it's perfectly clear and it's exactly what I said. But I'm surprised someone who's a university professor is trying to cover his mistake with so much aggression and ridicule for others. That's not appropriate. Even if he wasn't president of the National Assembly, he's inappropriate for a university professor. However, there is also some professional integrity in such matters, for it is necessary to realize that with every act, anyone who is either a professor or a member of the National Assembly or anywhere else, or, if both are at the same time, also acts as an example, is brought up. And education is one of the fundamental elements of every country. This is what we are actually laying the foundation for the next organisation, it is a responsibility to go forward and to set an example for them and what messages and what values we want to give to the next generation as their cultural, ethical tradition. In our case, SDS, we are convinced that this fundamental respect for human rights, for the neighbor, for all victims of totalitarian regimes, for all, with the same vat and, of course, that everything connected with statehood must be based on the value of patriotism. That is why we have opened this subject today, and this is why this is our proposal, and you know this very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Brglez, President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of the SDS Party! It saddens me very much that today this debate is again taking place as some kind of battle ideological field between us that should be involved, and above all I am saddened by the way it is going on and it certainly is not a state-created one. It's not like we're smoldering over strategic dilemmas or telling our citizens what we've done together. No, we're accusing ourselves again, we're putting each other's interpretations in the face, which are the right words, ripped out of interviews, magnetograms; in short, I'm not quoting the concept of political culture, because I don't think it's necessary here, but it's a negative political culture that I don't personally support and I don't want it. And we didn't say yes in 1990 – citizens and citizens! The country, this country, is a country of all of us, not just you. These exclusive agreements are not in the best interest of anyone. It is true, not us, but not you, but especially the state and the citizens. It's not state-of-the-art. We're talking about words. What are the words anyway? In words, we try to illustrate some of the following images, feelings, sounds that we feel inside us, and convince the householder what we want to say. You know, each one has his own feelings and his own words and his own pictures when he reads something: and yours are not necessarily ours. In this free country, I am convinced that everyone can read, read, and understand and interpret in his own way. Mind-reading. I've been in communication for a long time, but maybe I can tell the secret to mind-reading. There's only one, and that's dialogue. The dialogue tells us what someone was trying to say. But it is true that this would be a very national act, and I don't know if you're ready for this step right now. So if you really cared about Dr. Brglez being president of the National Assembly, you might say more about his commitment, his hard work, and his professional work, not what he ever thought. The fact is, you survive on our words in interviews, magnetograms, you tear them out, and maybe you'll do something like that with my words, but I wish you wouldn't. And it's true, we're different, so we're here today because we and Dr. Brglez don't need this political power. For me personally as a citizen, it doesn't matter who runs this country and who runs this national assembly. The content is important, but you know, the way is important. All that matters to you is the answer – who; and this answer is one and one. What else separates us? Your purpose is to create a carefully and deliberately ideological divide, negativity, creating a political crisis; you know, this is what we need at the very least right now. Really. And that's why we have to do this. But we want to solve the crisis, settle the contradictions and create positiveism. Why have you never said anything about what either of us or Dr. Brglez has done or said? Last time he commended you in this same interview, not least you did not say anything from the speech in Prekmurje, you never said that he was the only one who took on ideological contradictions in the National Assembly. Your tweets, yes, are still mute, waiting for some positive tweet that will help us to live better in this country, even because we will be more positive. Yeah, maybe with intent, but this isn't a state-created one, so I can tell you. Dear colleagues, construction, composition, building can only be done in one way, and this is cooperation and dialogue. We are waiting for your constructive opposition, because this political floor has become slippery and this has been shown to you by these elections. Your old modus operandi may have been unlocked, so I suggest you finally replace your guilt board with a tape or something more modern. And no matter what words you say to Dr. Brglez today, I am sure that his door, as always, will remain open to dialogue and state-of-the-art. That is why, too, dear colleagues, I believe that he is the one who is right for the President of the National Assembly in this call, and he does not deserve this debate on interpretation, let alone vote. However, no matter how you choose to be a constructive opposition and how your machine, which is amazing, will continue to work, I would say: no matter what happens in the coming weeks and months, I will place a version of Gregorčič on your heart. "He who is alone in an accident is worse, but he who is not happy is not happy who enjoys happiness alone." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you. The president, Dr. Milan Brglez, has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. When I first talked about the answers to specific accusations, I let one go because I somehow ran out of time, and first I have to explain what I wanted to explain in the end. This is not about the revolutionary actions themselves or my totalitarian orientation. What the talk was about when there was a talk in some positive context of the revolution was about what we know in social science as a social revolution or a social revolution. This has taken place, or such leaps are almost necessary, and we would also need them today. Either we need a scientific revolution, or we need a revolution in innovation, or we need a revolution on political culture. Now also because I am a proponent of this to be shown by example, I listen to this, although it grieves me very much, I listen, I see if anyone can look me in the eye when you say things to me; and most cannot do this to me. It kind of convinces me that what I did, what I said, wasn't what others made of it. The fact is that those statements that have been, and in these so far, are not only explained how we come to that common interest. It's a very simple matter. Every country, large, I don't know what ideology is in the background, can find a connection between the economy and the country, but I can't know what ideology – the most neoliberal or whatever they call it – can find such common interests, and sometimes it doesn't have to write, just as we have to write every strategy, because everyone understands what this common interest is. That's why we have a problem because we don't know these common interests in such a clear way that it would totally then matter whether this coalition is ruled by another coalition, and then it tries to change these things. Those things that are somehow based on the fundamental social consensus and this fundamental social consensus in this country are certainly our constitution. At least for me in the field where I worked, I was able to face many times or face people who spoke, okay, about foreign policy as if we didn't have our own constitution, as if there were no values in it. In this field of mine, this has often proved to be, and it seemed quite innovative there to conclude that you had your constitution and that, based on the Constitution, it was also necessary to operate in an international environment. All those statements that were made were spoken of as someone, or it was a question of someone who was at home from international relations. And all these comparisons came out of this at first. And then I get all these inside things. [[…]] Yeah, I'm really learning, I'm learning human rights among other things. Yeah. I know the whole context of human rights; I know the history of natural law; I know that natural law has also been abused as well as positive law if applied unilaterally. What I mentioned earlier and what you skipped quickly: Natural law was used to justify the killing of Indians within the Christian civilization — because they are not human! That's how it tried to do it. But it's history, people of God! What I'm trying to say is that they usually follow it when they want to break the positive rules that exist in a given society. And if you do one thing and you don't put both of them together, it's just the right thing to do. You have to get to the solutions that are. But there was a completely different context. Only what unites one another is the disgust that one can feel when one says postwar killings, and on the other hand the crimes committed under the Nazi regime. All of this is repulsive. And if there is any other way to interpret the matter — yes, it is really necessary to take a very creative approach to the matter so that it can be interpreted in a different way. And I want to prescribe these things, how or what my purpose was, how I wanted to praise the former country. Of course, in fact, it was then a special one — a special honor, in fact, that I was old enough to give my voice on plebiscite. [[…]] I was also old enough to be able to be in the first elections when we saw that it was a goal when we elected Drnovsk, not the one they proposed. But that's when we felt like we did something about it. It was kind of a positive feeling. And now ascribe that I despise this positive feeling — that is repulsive! I mean, that's okay, let's just say that I can understand that there are people who want to think absolutely differently about these things that seem perfectly normal to me. [[…]] What certainly needs to be emphasized in this regard is — if I do anything else. Yeah, I got two things to admit. One of these things is that today's debate eventually becomes an ideological debate, in fact, ideology can never be avoided in the end, as no political thing can be avoided in the end, these are some motor facts, the more the question is how much and how. And the other thing, however, has to be admitted, but once they only admitted that I did something good at the beginning, but at the next moment, on the basis of what I did wrong, they forgot that this is also the context through which this statement should also be made, because it has already been given, I cannot constantly repeat myself. You have to just look at what I've said, how I've said it, and why I said it. I am aware that all these things have symbolic power, and that is the only thing that gives me this position. This position gives me the opportunity to sometimes go beyond what may not be a consensus in a given society at this point, but it should be put in this direction. Of course, these efforts can be eradicated, the easiest thing to do is to destroy them by attacking the personal dignity of the one who performs the function. So I'm gonna keep sitting here and trying to make eye contact with whoever's accusing me because I really want to know if he's honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko's representative would also like to take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, to all those who are talking about the process work or the procedural powers vested in the President of the National Assembly, a few discussions on this subject. This is not the subject of this discussion today, and I think this is all irrelevant. The Slovenian Democratic Party will be a constructive opposition - where it can be done; and there will be an alternative opposition - where it is needed. So just count on us to raise our hands and nod, that's probably the problem. You are correct; these statements, these 5 sentences, these 5 statements by the President of the National Assembly are purely ideological in nature. It's exclusive. If someone says that, thus, the claim "own country is a step backwards, not in terms of statehood, but state-building" – this is a political statement, this is an ideological statement, because it is a breakthrough between the two systems. [[…]] If we have a bunch of small interests instead of one big, state-favouring one, that's also a political statement. Is that right? He's probably got it. And our constitution is talking about democracy, pluralism and so on, we don't have what it used to be: one person, one regime, one leadership, one ideology, but we're different. These two statements are contrary to what we have written in the preamble to the Constitution, Mr President. Then you said that "we were previously bound to a certain type of country that had an inheritance, credibility and certain recognitions in the international community, but now we have a country that is a member of NATO and an EU that can't take advantage of it." See, also other totalitarian countries, because they were then members of the international community – the question of how credible they were. This power, Mr President, of these totalitarian countries, the NDR, Romania, Ceausescu and Zivkov, and so on, were built on the basis of human rights violations and only on this principle existed. Only on this principle did they exist. If we go back, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia they did not mass-burn, they did not mass-kill, they did not cause, they would say royal exodus, and the country was defined as a bad country. The new Yugoslavia, practically to the same extent, circumcised for perhaps some entity that we have lost foolishly, has done all this and you say that a better country in this sense was protecting human rights than, I don't know, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Such terrible acts did not happen at the time. Speaking of natural law, Mr President, you're going back to the Middle Ages and you're going to tell us what happened back then. Only between the Middle Ages, between the period of colonization of America and the period when the political structure of the new state was confused is a significant difference, four hundred years apart. Four years apart. The effect or approach is exactly the same when you talk about Christianity and the extermination of Indians — because they were not only Christian there, there were others, perhaps sometime later — that is the problem. Speaking of free country after World War II, that's no longer a problem for you. When you talk about the basis of natural law in the trial of the criminals of World War II. But there was a trial, an international trial, some kind of Hague tribunal was conducted there, and this in Nuremberg and also the Japanese condemned Toj and the other three or four, those who caused this calvary of World War II. But the trial was conducted. Here you have a series of documents of the highest politicians after liberation, Kardel, Kidrič and so on, calling for killing, because, I don't know, day X will be proclaimed amnesty. Look, it's a systemic approach. They didn't do that against Indians. It's a magical process, it's really terrible. If you're setting this comparison and this stuff, then that's the problem. You're a law professor, you say you understand. You didn't point one word of criticism at those who did. One word of criticism! In the same interview. One word — not so far. What you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what you're talking about, what I have been three times signatories to the request that the President of the National Assembly mark this matter in the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, with Mr Webr. New Slovenia and the current People's Party also signed, and none of the presidents of the National Assembly did or refused to do so. If there were no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at that time, the question would have been what would have been the point of calling the National Assembly. But even then I addressed you as well as in previous cases the demand to do so, and you did, no procedural matters had to be carried out. You did. I respect that, and I like that, and I hope that the next presidents of the National Assembly, as they remember Srebrenica, will do the same thing every time in the National Assembly. I can't argue with that. I think that's fine. What you said about the revolution, I don't know what kind of scientific, technological, or so on, but economics This has no connection, you have now updated this statement because in this part you are talking about a different revolution. [[…]] Here you were talking about the idea of the United Left revolution, not the technological revolution, but the scientific revolution, they have a second definition of the revolution to be carried out. It's hard, and now you're gonna convince me here or us, signatories, that you thought of something else here. This revolution refers substantively to a completely different thing, the revolution that you're talking about – in quotations. We are for the technological breakthrough, we are for the Silicon Valley in Koroška or anywhere, in Prekmurje, if you want – no problem. We are here, we are not an obstacle and here we are constructive, only in the definition or understanding of the revolution as advocated by the United Left, but the emphasis is quite different, Mr President. It's completely different. The point is, it's completely different. It's a whole other one. By relativizing it with technology and science, you didn't make any progress, and you didn't explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you. The word wishes Dr. Milan Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you. In the nature of understanding or how a person feels to illustrate a little of this Middle Ages sorcery: whatever you do, it's always your fault. How does this thing work? How did they study whether someone was a witch or not? Well, they sunk her in the water, the women were, just this, this is where it starts; they sunk them into the water, and the one that floated to the surface was a witch, and that's why they burned her. The one who didn't swim was not a witch. But now, the debate is something like this in this context and in these interpretations. What was quickly forgotten or in this praise of the previous regime – I have always said that I was talking about the international context and I was not talking about the internal context. I am aware of the problem of the internal context, and I have said this several times. I am aware of the state of human rights at that time, and I have also studied this further and backward; not only do I know this; I also know what the attitude of this country is and when it is used, for example, the General Declaration of Human Rights, which is such an international standard, but it is very rarely used, even in the exercise, justification and similar matters. They use other documents, I'm not talking about no such documents being used. But what I want to point out is that you forgot about one third option, the one where one thing could have been credible, and it wasn't the East, and it wasn't the West, but some of them were unlisted. But you can't just link this to totalitarian stuff. It's some kind of specific heritage that was created at the time. Very specific. Today it is gone, it does not remember any of these matters, but from this out that credibility was somehow derived, it was positioned in this international community in a certain way – that country. I'm not talking about her internal constitution, I'm talking about her international role. And of course, then that credibility was somehow building on it. We've come to these organizations we've been talking about, but we didn't know what we could do about it. And that's because we don't understand that state-of-the-art is not a state-of-the-art process, it's a day-to-day decision of those who act on behalf of the state. Now, if we take the country for one or the other, it is very difficult to come up with such thoughts or such understandings. That's how much I wanted to explain in this context right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you. The text is requested by the representative of the proposers. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr President, in this interview that is here, there is very little of this international context that you would like to talk about. It's a scary little thing. One more comparison with Switzerland and it's over. But when you talk about unlisted and that, I don't know, put something on some pedestal the third time, and this is what it was – a set of military dictatorships and India. [[…]] That's it. That was the understatement. Gaddafi, Castro, Hussein, that's Sadat or Naser before, and one of the greatest democracies in the world, and you're going to get the military dictatorships and nothing else. And it wasn't. It was just, I don't know what, it was the combined states of military dictatorships that needed international assistance, permanently, none survived, and in the end Yugoslavia didn't survive because everything collapsed. [[…]] And that's it. But when you talk about statehood or state-of-the-artness, but you're also a little bit off, you're kind of mixing the notion of state-of-the-art, you're saying what has created the country and what constitutes the state and statehood, it's saying what we don't actually have. All these things that are going on are bad statehood or destruction of the foundations of this country. This is one of the key problems we are dealing with. All that we should suggest, let us say, many of the previous governments, that we have the sense that we have statesmen, those who hold and develop the country, because everything has gone in the opposite direction. Even now. For all that the Government is doing with measures or not with measures that are not lacking, does not strengthen national competitiveness, Mr President, but demolishes the country – debt and so on. All that's going in the opposite direction. It is difficult to say that those who have indebted the country to act in a state-of-the-art manner and that those who continue this policy are acting in a state-of-the-art way. This is impossible to accept – this concept. This means drowning the country; systematic, accelerated sinking of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Although our group leader has already given his position to the Group of Members, mine, too, but I would still like to add something to this debate today in the National Assembly. So today, the president of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, is being intertwined because in an interview with the Slovenian weekly, he gave some statements that the applicant has taken out of this context and used them as a reason for the request for a discharge. I don't think this request is justified. The observations made by the motioner for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly are also entirely unfounded, misleading and unrealistic, as I have estimated. Dr. Milan Brglez has proved to be an impartial leader of the National Assembly, which respects the legal order of the State of Slovenia, in the short time that he is running the National Assembly, acting in a coherent manner and taking care of the reputation of the National Assembly, and of the countries of Slovenia as a whole. The SDS Party shall, through its constant intervention of its interventions or proposals to resolve against various officials, i.e. against the Government, ministers, today against the President of the National Assembly, implement the President's announcement that the SDS Party will use all legal and political means to achieve its objectives. I would also like to point out that the SDS party was the first party in the history of Slovenia to bring a constitutional charge against the then President of the State, Dr. Danil Türk in 2011. This constitutional accusation has not been successful either, and we have heard about it today. I therefore believe that this proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, is not justified and is totally unjustifiable. Of course I will vote against this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable President of the National Assembly! In his opening address, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, in the position of the Mir Cerar Group, said, inter alia, that we must respect civilisation standards. The more this statement by Dr. Kustec Lipitzer could not agree, but here we would upgrade it, not only to respect it, but also to apply it. Why am I saying this? Not long ago, we spoke to the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities about the five-year burial of victims of inter-war and post-war events. Dr. Brglez, all your fellow Members of the coalition who are on this committee have voted against it. And here's what I'm saying, it's not an attack on you or on the SMC Party, there's a two-world conflict when you're doing something or saying something, and on the other hand, you're doing something. That's what's important right now. The fifth burial of the dead is a basic civil code, a grave is an inalienable right of every individual, no matter what he has done. This was also supported by Dr. Brglez with a familiar parable from the Antigone when it was known that the burial was a civil code at the time. But unfortunately, in our National Assembly, we have a problem with this basic civilisation standard. It is precisely because of this atmosphere, the context that we should have long gone beyond because we are not barbarians, but we live in some, I hope, a civilized country, we have a problem with certain statements coming from the highest peak of the country. Dr. Brglez, I personally commended you and said that I think it would be right for you to say in the National Assembly that it is important to mark August 23rd as the day of the victims of all totalitarian regimes. And you did that as the first president of the National Assembly, and that's when I said that, Sir Guček, and today I am still standing on the fact that this was a step forward. But then, when you took a position of power as president of the National Assembly, which certainly has some reputation in the public, moral authority, you took two steps back. I can interpret your words perhaps differently, but you said postwar killings were a consequence of natural law. Here's the problem. Why? Because of this you have reached into the dignity and integrity of not only the victims, but also those who are family members and still suffer today because of this plague that has taken place on Slovenian soil. A while ago, I attended a group called the Survival Force. I would advise each of the Members to participate in this group. Why? There were people sitting there, looking each other in the eye, tearful eyes. Why? Because it's their only wish and their last wish before they die to have someone tell them where these relatives are buried. The only wish, entirely the most human basic desire to be able to say good-bye to these people in a pietically and dignified manner before they die. But what is the point of this story? Some individuals still alive today know where these people are buried. Some of them know, but they don't. Therefore, I think it is important that we discuss these matters, and how important it is that the President of the National Assembly, who may personally, the President-respected, I have a different understanding of what words I would have if it were not for the context in which our country, which has not cleared up the past, knows this differently. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly is expected to raise: for the first time, the reputation of the National Assembly, especially not five times, ten times earlier to consider what he will make on an interview. Last week, I addressed a letter to the Ombudsman about your statement. Not because I wish in any way you had given before – otherwise not to me personally, but to us Members of the debate – that we wanted to fall into your dignity. I am the first to say that in the National Assembly, if we had always respected each other's dignity, we would have very little trouble at all levels. But it seems to me that this statement, respected by Dr. Brglez, was not appropriate. She wasn't right. Now we can base it on a hundred possible variations and ways. In view of the situation, as I explained earlier, it was not appropriate because we did not clear up the matter from this half-lived history. We should have! We should have, but we shouldn't have cleaned this up when it was time. I've told you before, I'm not into using rematchism at any level. But I'm for it, and it's fair and proper to put things in their place. I believe you feel the same way. But as long as we insist on this level that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who always just gnaws and tries something, I don't know, against someone, then we haven't done anything. Personally, I can also tell you personally that I do not have any objection to you, but when you reach into the dignity of those who, by law, Article 34 of the Constitution clearly states, through the Constitution that this personal dignity is guaranteed – then I react; as a Member and also as President of the Commission on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you. The word was wanted by the president, Dr. Milan Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u130	I have to react to that right now. And because of the simple fact that what is claimed, that I have said and connected directly, is not. In fact, in the meantime, a binding sentence or an intermediate sentence is intended to explain the context in which the whole matter is meant. Literally, this sentence is nowhere and you could technically pretend it's a lie. I'm not going to do that because sometimes I'm trying to simplify some things. But the fact is that what's being constructed as my hate speech is essentially that there's no whole sentence already in this same sentence, only two things are connected. It is so easy to connect things and what is here — some warning in the background of the whole thing. It is also in this argument of natural law behind that one who is ideologically absolutely convinced of his right does what he thinks is absolutely right. And they are sure who did it, or those who were sure when they did it were able to go to bed before themselves on the basis that they were convinced that they were doing the right thing. But this is just this one-sided argument that can lead in one direction absolutely unacceptable – actually in both directions, if we go but the context was actually positive law or natural law, this is what the lawyers know. [[…]] Positive law can lead to unacceptable results if it is absolved. There's no fuse! On the other hand, the absolution of natural law can lead to the same thing — nothing more and nothing less meant by the whole matter. And what is in the background is that ideology – of course, throughout history is changing, through history is changing – and what we take as Western civilization has its stains, which must also be recognized to the world, because it has been working in the name of this unacceptable thing. This, of course, makes the situation in the international community quite different today. To tie it to those things that I mentioned. First of all, as far as this foreign policy context is concerned. In the interview there is another question about how it works, but the first two questions can be considered foreign policy, because they were explicitly set up for me in this way by someone I used to teach international relations. This context I have absolutely recognized, there is no other possible recognition here than this, and this is how I have responded. However, I certainly do not think that accounting with the President of the National Assembly can in any way be an accounting either with the Government, cannot be an accounting with a party alone or with any minister in the Government or anything like that. I think in this case you've gone wrong and the procedures are completely different. But I'd like to warn you about that. I will not follow your example of explaining the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because if I were to follow that example, then I think there would be a lot faster and there would be much less actual debate in the National Assembly. That is why I do not set bad examples. What I have to stress is another thing that I've somehow owed, that actually mixes with three expressions. So far, it is somehow clear: one is statehood, which is linked to the fact that there is a country and that it has all the signs and that others have recognised it, i.e. a classical matter related to the existence of a modern international community, on the other hand, a state-of-the-art process that I understand as an everyday process of reproduction and also the transformation of a country in which everyone participates and where countries without people are practically not at the end, because if they do not give some basic legitimacy, it breaks down – it cannot be different – and it can also be explained why this transition, which has occurred from the previous system to another system, has been so, because simply those previous creations have withdrawn people's legitimacy – in different ways but they have. We gave legitimacy to something else at the time. And finally the third, where people can be accused of not being civil. In fact, it is always behind this common interest, where you are not acting for your own benefit, but for the benefit of the community, and which I have already interpreted in connection with a banned thinker — and this is Machiavelli. He also reasoned that he was doing this on behalf of the Republic, and not in any way on behalf of having a better ruler or having a specific position, but because he was the one representing the Republic. So I think that these things need to be separated a little bit, but now I'm going to listen and then I'm going to react. I hope I don't have to do this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you. About the use of the rules of procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'd have procedural. At five o'clock we are tilting, and I fear that not all Members, but the people who listen to it and are repulsed through social media, know what statement this refers to. I would therefore suggest that we interrupt the meeting in 15, 20 minutes to obtain an interview from Mladina – after all, it is a so-called low-level publisher, and it is not read by a large number of Slovenes and Slovenes – and read this statement. There's something else I'd like to say for the light of reason. My friend Tanko made me go to see, metaphorically, how many unclassified countries there are in the world. Data for 2012: 120 Member States are movements of unlisted and 17 observers. There are 196 recognised countries in the world, there are 61 unlisted members, all African countries, as well as some India with South Africa, even Croatia among observers, if we add observers together, is 70% of all countries that exist in the world. Just for information. However, I ask that my proposal be taken into account and that this declaration be read that the people know what we are talking about after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you. This interview was an integral part of the material and was published as such on the website. Would you like some more procedural, Mr. Duck?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u134	Many of the people and people of Slovenia, supported by the United Left and partly by DeSUS, do not have access to the Internet, and I repeat that my proposal is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you. We have already discussed this at one of the previous meetings when about the same proposal was made to read something. Everyone has the opportunity to read on the website. I agree that not everyone may have the material, but this is the work of Parliament according to the rules of procedure. I suggest we move on. Does he have a word on the use of the Rules of Procedure? [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u136	I'll leave this session because the coalition doesn't take us seriously. The National Assembly is not dedicated to itself, the National Assembly you have read the Constitution, the Chairman, thank you for not having at all [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u137	Ms Anita Kolesha has the floor to prepare for Master Dusan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u138	Dear President, Dr Milan Brglez, distinguished president, colleague and colleague! It's kind of hard for me to keep going after this slight complication. But maybe we could all take a little break together, but the best thing is to get this thing done somehow. In recent years, I have not followed up much in this high choir. I was just one of those people in Slovenia who only experienced the failure of the political representatives of this country through the deteriorating situation in her country. The debates in the National Assembly, I admit, have mostly been dealt with, except, of course, in some sky-sweeping stuff that has been in the media's response, so I had no idea that any of the political parties on me, at least I think, could use this clear way to exploit their political function. Now I am faced with the fact that, on behalf of the democratic dialogue and the confrontation of different views in this space, some ad hoc charges are made, little of these and little of those statements, and newspaper articles, some of them from the Constitution, non-creditual analyses, and today we have heard a different opinion than anyone else. But the most popular here in this assembly is quoting or better, summarizing the words of colleagues of the opposite political field, turning their meaning and sentences to sentences, hanging various negative connotations that they often accompany, unfortunately cynicism, and also humiliation. I guess that's what's waiting for my debate. It's a matter of political culture, and that's what Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer talked about. I am a little encouraged by the fact that some of the party's members have put their heads down in her speech – but not the ones in the front lines, so that there will be no mistake. "The state fell apart in front of our eyes," Dr. Butcher gave us a buzz a few years ago. I think I can quote him, even though I'm against him getting too mixed up in this assembly with these quotes. He was the first President of the Slovenian Parliament. More! He said that Slovenian politicians take decisions that bring political benefits to the party, and he even called such behaviour Slovenian politics Mafia. It is very obvious that some kind of practice, then summarized by Dr. Butcher, is continuing. How else am I supposed to imagine this initiative to relieve the President of the National Assembly as a sort of condescending interest, that, with statements cut out of the context, and some trivial accusations based on absurd explanations – so please, I think – are launching among people its truth about the President, who is a worshiper of the former common country, of a man who justifies postwar killings and advocates revolution as a legitimate and legal way to power. Of course, Dr. Brglez was not difficult to argue against all these charges. As the arguments were, we heard what the arguments on his arguments were, too, but everyone can create their own opinion. Mainly, I do not think that there is much debate about this, at least with me – so the debate is always possible, but at least it is not with me. This is how I think that the purpose of such deception of citizens and citizens is primarily to reduce the reputation not only of the institutions of the National Assembly, but also of course the reputation and dignity of our President. Of course, there is another matter that I don't think is so negligible. In fact, I think the party that proposes this wants to somehow secure some specific positions, politically forward, because they obviously got a little out of hand. Dr. Bučar said something else: "The state must be based on trust." It is true that if there is no such confidence, there is a lot of room for manipulation, much has been said about it, but he thinks that what Margaret's colleague said is that trust builds with positive measures first, and this is in Parliament. I think this is also our president's role. Of course, this is also an opportunity to attack all of us, the Mir Cerar Party, this is some manipulation, some maneuver and so on, and so it has been in the past months of this convention here with us. You know, I've gone into politics with very good intentions, I've become a member of a party that's somehow really being declared, and I think it's being set aside by politicians who put their selfish interests ahead of the interests of the state and its citizens. This is said to be against this and we strongly oppose it in the Mir Cerar Party. As long as I believe that our client is putting up with these interests, I will remain in the National Assembly, nothing else is holding me back. And my colleague, Eva Irgle, I was going to bow down to the memory of the post-war beatings in the Devil's Cave. With me was a colleague from SMC, including from New Slovenia, I did not see Members and Members from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is of course nothing wrong, but if we are already taking this from the contexts, we are taking this. Perhaps for the end a little bit more, not in a humorous but rather in a serious spirit; but, however, because I come from a little of these cultural circles and have done a lot of monitoring in the past week of the current language of operatic correspondence of some, to this indictory structure that we are dealing with today, the vast majority of Slovenes would certainly write something like – let's say very simply – "Don't make fun of us." Dear Mr Brglez, I wish you to continue to do such a good job in the National Assembly and seek our common interests if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you. Replica? Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Dear Mrs Kolesh, just to be clear, we will not be talking about anything. Thank God you went to the Hudo Cave and laid your wreath, because that means we've brought and taken a step forward. But I can tell you that I was alone, because it was obvious, and I've already given it to myself in the Devil's Cave, many times, even with a wreath. So I'd like to ask you to check the information first and not just talk about the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you. The replica is intended for this if you have been misunderstood. Okay? But there's no replica to the replica. Mr. Magg has the word. Dušan Verbich. Use of the rules of procedure, Mr. Tanko? As a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. When we listened to this address by Mrs Kolesh, it would be good if you could clear up your own group of Members first, whether the things you spoke about were standing or not. In fact, Dr. Dobovšek speaks of the same thing as you say, quite differently. It's completely different. Every time he makes a statement, he's talking about some networks being dragged into your client's office that started managing the client. You're talking about some other pure purpose. Before you take any position, I suggest you get in line. One or two things have been left unresolved. In some ways, the President of the National Assembly should explain whether his own country was a step backwards. And perhaps, in what way he understands these postwar killings and argues with natural law. I think these things have remained unanswered. Otherwise, if there is such a strong awareness of, as I suppose, that there will be an answer to what the previous state has been, it may now be that you find that it was not only so good because of the massive violation of human rights, but perhaps it would also be an appropriate answer, or you support what is happening in Srebrenica when the victim is dug up, an identification is made and then every year those who are identified are buried solemnly. It's just one of the important things. Second thing, Mr President, which is also important. Do you support the archives of secret services where many crimes are hidden over those who are killed — it also probably says where they are killed, how they are killed, who killed them, who gave the order — or do you support the opening of these archives and to clarify this greatness of the previous country, of which you said in one of the sentences that it had a very great heritage, good heritage and credibility. Also, these things, because they are an integral part of the set, must be said because you have expressed yourself so positively about the former country. At the same time, politicians praising this previous country have done everything they can to make documents inaccessible and prevent both the exercise of rights and the assessment of the actual functioning or quality of the previous regime, for example, in the field of human rights and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you. Dr. Runczek, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Beginning of Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: "The Members are representatives of all the people..." and so on. We are now called into the parliamentary group by people who resent what we are doing. You ignored my proposal. At the moment, I am leaving this meeting and I suggest that we do not pay wages for today's week – this is also a proposal that is very circulating on the web and on the phone to our parliamentary group. It is true that I am sitting here today by the United Left to count these votes, this is from now on your problem of how you will resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, get Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u146	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I have listened carefully to the dialogue with content as a rule, but I will look personally at the message value of the proposal that has been tabled. The proposal to resolve the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, opens up a number of questions and dilemmas to which I will try to answer further. I will allow myself to think and give myself individual answers to the conclusions of the proposal. In the introductory part, a Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is cited and three main sets of tasks of the President of the National Assembly are defined: for the first time, the organisation of the work of the National Assembly, for the second time, the preparation, reference and conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly and for the third time, the presentation of the National Assembly. I am immediately confronted with the introduction, and I have faced the realization that my position is different from that of the proposer. The position I am in favour of is that, in accordance with Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly normally has two fundamental powers, which means that there are only two sets, namely. for the first time, the presentation of the National Assembly, and I define this as a representative function, and for the second time, the leadership of the National Assembly, which includes operational management and the organisation of work and the preparation of meetings. Since my position differs from that of the proposer of the proposal, I have to ask myself somehow: can this distinction already be defined as contradictory and can it affect the institute in a broader context also in the face of a different political view? And if I continue: Does a different attitude or view already mean some form of statelessness? Can the President of the National Assembly rightly be justified in disregarding the principle of economics in the conduct of this assembly? The answer is yes — no. Does he respect the legitimate rights of the opposition to express his position in the debates? Absolutely – yes! I am of the opinion, however, that much too much allows individuals, in particular from the type of party to proposers, in individual cases, because of the abuse of procedural rules 69 and 70. Is it reasonable to make an observation — an impartial leader — if it points out that the rules of procedure are being followed consistently and that it enforces in the conduct of the National Assembly at its level? Personally, I strongly advocate that the President of the National Assembly should reflect, and this must be perceived, shaped by a positive personality and enjoy or have the character of an impartial leader. I'm sure Dr. Milan Brglez has these qualities. In order to demonstrate the personal maturity, the appropriateness of acting as President of the National Assembly, its role as an example of representing the National Assembly at various events, celebrations and similar associations, it is evident or evident from its performances, for example, that I mention only some. Address regarding the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, a speech at the celebration of the merger of the Prekmurski Slovenes with the native people, a speech by the President of the National Assembly on the laying of wreaths at the monument of the Francolovic victims, at the Earth Academy at the 110th anniversary of the birth of Edward Kocbek. I believe that this kind of development only proves its nationality and unrestrained commitment to the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, to stop, to legal regulation, including constitutional values. Parliamentary governance should be based on stable, general and non-personal rules, which should not change according to the content and circumstances. It undoubtedly ensures its quality and stability, but it is always a human factor, both on the part of the leader and the leaders, and it is unpredictable. Political guidance has always aroused different feelings in people. The most common question is the compatibility of governance and democracy. There is also a dilemma whether we should admire or fear the strong leaders of Parliament. By submitting the proposal in question, I believe that this is more the latter. If I continue to define what a political parliamentary leader should be, I would take on a general theoretical definition that is: it is those who can crystallize what voters want, consequently Members, to clarify the correctness and fairness of their initiatives, proposals and wishes. Can Dr. Milan Brglez be included in that definition? I believe that his activity in this short time proves exactly that direction of action. I also attribute to him the ability of political prudence. Following each reading of the proposal for a solution, the following question was increasingly raised. Does the proposer continue with past anchored political mentality, which still manifests itself today in excessive distrust of the individual as the holder of the state function? The answer is maybe. If I keep going. Is such a procedure intended to dampen the charisma of the President of the National Assembly, which would result in a lack of confidence in his decisions? My answer is: there is a high probability that this is the goal. The President of the National Assembly shall, in the first instance, be a Member of the National Assembly. It is often referred to as the first of the same in public. Does this mean that he does not have the right to have a personal view of a particular matter, as do all of us Members? I'm in the position that this has the right. And what about parliamentary democracy? I allow the possibility that my thinking and questions are not in the context of the proposal's expectations for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, especially since I am in the position that the proposal itself is not valid. At the same time, I allow myself the possibility of the proposal's proposer allowing me, including me, the following hypothesis. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is an attempt by the proposer to discredit not only the Member of the Party, Mir Cerar, but also the Institute of the President of the National Assembly and consequently the National Assembly itself. Is that a sign of statehood? It does not take into account the fact that the proposal will be put to the vote, I am sure that this kind of activity of the proposer does not enhance the reputation of the National Assembly. Since I object to such proposals, especially since today should not be intended to measure the political power of the parties, I declare that I will vote against the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u148	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Look, someone's done something good, they just can't justify what he did wrong. Today, I have heard from many debaters, even from the President of the National Assembly himself, that he has done a great deal of good. That's right. You know, but for example, a neighbor can do a lot of good for the neighborhood, but that doesn't excuse what he does for the four walls at home. And simply forgetting something because someone has done something good in another area is unacceptable and, above all, irresponsible. Today there was also a lot of debate on the subject of political culture. Yes, dear colleagues, colleagues, we are talking about a political culture. You know, just political culture isn't just what you want to discuss or what you like. It is also a political culture that we do not avoid themes and that we do not speak in the National Assembly, that a topic is important and that another is irrelevant or even unworthy today's treatment. More! I've heard from the predecessor that this is a bad light coming down on Parliament. You know, and that's what I was talking about earlier. This mental transition, this bewildered mental transition to a different political system. That's the problem. And that is the problem, unfortunately, of many in this room as well. I also listened earlier to Mrs Guček Zakošek, a colleague, so that we should act constructively. Look, all I can answer is: How can someone say such a lie? Tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, which proposal of the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party have you taken into account or even accepted in this assembly. Maybe we'll talk about the state of the Slovenian police? By the way, just so you know, I've been informed that police officers are already leaving their jobs. This is a result of your constructive debate! The result of your constructive debate was also yesterday's debate when you, of course, adopted the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in which we talked about the problems facing our citizens and citizens, about the reallocation of funds that might be a key solution for them in these difficult times of winter. Oh, no! And then you say from your mouth that we're unconstructive. That can't be true! Not least to mention Mrs. Kolesh here. I'm glad you were in the pit. I hope you were not there because you were a Member and you had to be, but because you are also distanced from the worst forms of human rights violations. I believe that some of the discussions of my colleagues in the introduction, by Desus, were not appropriate and, in fact, I will say, the fruit may also be your own unpleasant situation. Pouring fertilizer on the Slovenian Democratic Party to blame everyone, respected – are we to blame for today's debate? Have we, perhaps, made statements in Youth and upset our citizens and citizens? No! No! We were just obliged to respond. And one more thing, respectable colleagues and colleagues! As much as you like to pour manure on others, it would be good for you to clean up your own. Last time you showed your friend from DUS how to work in your client. First you support the law, then you even table amendments and then you vote against it. It's you. And don't say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a foreigner in this National Assembly. And one more thing, Your Honor, to all those who are incredibly busy with our electoral system. The Slovenian Democratic Party has been in the National Assembly since the very beginning and we are still here. Ask yourself, ‘ Where are some others who have shared the same thoughts that some of you share today? ’ The fact that something should be said and not; the fact that something is important and something else is not important. I believe that until we make this move, we will be able to talk openly about everything and somehow admit our mistakes, we will not go far. One more thing about those who say that we have forged or even changed written words, perhaps even with the help of a colleague from the United Left who says that citizens and citizens do not know what we are talking about today, and I will point out only one answer or statement. The journalist's question was, "Is the country a step back?" Your answer, Mr President of the National Assembly, was: "Not in terms of statehood, but in terms of statehood." Pika. How can anyone see that we have turned this sentence in any way? We didn't. And now I'm asking you, what is the state-of-the-art other than the ability to create and create your own country? And this country was created, respected, created by those who are no longer among us today and remain their families without fathers. And the debate that there is a step back in our country's state-of-the-art is unacceptable. And if not otherwise, because I know you won't back down, you won't be relieved today, at least for the sake of these people you should apologize. You cause pain that cannot be overlooked. You cause more pain to those families who have lost relatives to sit in the Slovenian Parliament today and no longer in the congregation. And so that once and for all we can pour pure wine and forget about the first and second-class themes. And don't say that the darkness you don't like is ideological. They are not ideological, they are part of all of us, and we are called upon to take clear and unquestionable positions with them. We live in a democratic Republic of Slovenia, and this is the only, truly, right and right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you. Procedurally wanted Mr. Franz Jurša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think we should warn colleague Anjo Bah Žibert that he speaks and insults others. I've been waiting for you to perform, because I know and I've met your rhetoric in the National Assembly. I'll answer the lady I've been waiting for to respond to the subject. You know, I said that I had no way of discussing it this way and that I had not discussed it in the past, but you forced me to do it. And one more thing; the war of conquest and the fact that we have Slovenia today, you can't be the only one who can adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u151	The word has been given to you, sir. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It was a procedural question. He warned me that [[…]] All together, we warn as many times so far as we do not want to abuse the procedural question of answering the statements of others. The replica is intended for this, if you were misunderstood, otherwise we have a debate in order. So please, if we can stick to the rules of procedure. About the use of the rules of procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u152	Respected! Yeah, I'll talk to you about the rules of procedure. The fact that the Member has afforded an explanation that I am offensive should be warned about this. In fact, with one statement I was not offensive, I merely summed up what they said and what they did in the National Assembly. As a new Member, I will always react to what hurts, and that is a lie and a lie. And I didn't say anything in my statements that wouldn't be true. Look at the magnetograms, look at everything you've done about the law that your DUS representatives have proposed and you'll see, of course, it does, of course it does. [[…]] We're talking about you spilling dirt on other people, but we should clean up our own. That is why, Your Honor, I do not allow my debates to be referred to as rude. For I speak of it, or answer only to that which ye have spoken. So you were rude and you were insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you. We can ask all of us together to respect the Rules of Procedure and to apply the Rules of Procedure only if we want to apply the Rules of Procedure and the Replica if we have been misunderstood. So I suggest we move on now. He has a word, Mr. Branko Zorman. Get ready, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Honourable President, Dr Milan Brglez, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In a relatively short period of time dedicated to the lives of us individuals, we are given this beautiful piece of land by the nature of our birth. And there could be happy people living on it. I wonder what should be done to make use of this opportunity. First, I must conscientiously renounce the idea that this idea is utopian. For it is utopian only then and as long as we reject it in advance as unreal, and we are not prepared to do our best for it. In the SMC Party, we seriously believe that it is possible in our little Slovenia to be content with different thinking people. The purpose of the vision for the future was also encouraged in the interview by Dr. Milan Brglez. So the fact is that formal conditions have already been given: we have our own country, we have all the necessary institutions, we have the constitution and the laws to operate and we have the people to whom this action is intended – just so that we can realize our personal and common interests and needs. Formal frameworks are agreed, especially in order to ensure that people pursue their goals properly. To run them when we are carried across the bounds of what is permitted, we are stopped if we are aware that we are interfering with the dignity of someone else in pursuit of our own interests. Thus, to realize the idea of happy coexistence, we are a key condition for people, our actions, and our intentions. Today, I note that there is something missing in party political action; there is a lack of framework, there are limits to common sense. We can prescribe surgically exactly what is desired and what is unproductive, harmful behaviour, and yet we will still be powerless in the field of sophisticated processes, which are taking place in cases where the intention, which means harmful consequences for society, is unfolding in the context of authorised action. And that is the case with the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. In the context of the possible action of Members, I believe that the unacceptable intention of the proponent's own benefit and the introduction of unrest into the political climate is introduced when it is unduly problematic and tries to exclude the action of an important and powerful man, Dr Milan Brglez, who, as he said in the interview, has become a politician because he has come to know, and it is important that we should no longer play with society and with the country. His commitment to the idea of the development of our country is also demonstrated by a dignified attitude in the conduct of the National Assembly. The portions of the content that the drafters have withdrawn from the interview and interpreted in their own way, beyond the context of content, have become an unjustified and unexpected means of applying the unacceptable intentions of the applicants. This misinterpretation has been made consciously, for it is difficult for me to imagine that the proponents of the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly would not be able to properly understand the messages of the interview. I can't believe it. Is it really possible that a grown man, my fellow human being, my 21st - century Englishman, is uncritical enough to go to the level of misdirection while at the same time embodying material facts and knowingly distorting the message? At school, when we analyzed art, art and actual texts, we were asked how we understood the message of what the writer was going to say, and we responded according to our experiences, the world and our abilities. It is also often a senseless or intellectual weakness. But pay attention, never knowingly false! If so, it would limit corruption, which would soon trigger a response in school’s success and undermine mutual trust. A healthy emotional schoolboy was well aware of the importance of his own conduct for his credibility. And to the end. I understood the interview as a normal, well-aware reader. I reject the reasons for the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly and condemn such a way of political action as has been served by the proponents. Yet I still believe that happy people could live on our soil. You'd better make sure it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Tanko wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Just one more time, mate. Bring in the suggestions. We'll be waiting for you on Saturday, Sunday, anytime, and we'll open the debate. But you are capable of great artistic debates, such and different ones, but there are no proposals – those proposals for people. There's nothing yet. The president of the National Assembly, since he's here with me, can tell you that they're not here. And now you're pointing your work at us as if we were the main coalition party and responsible for the government's work. It's unfair what you do. Unfair and unfair and irresponsible, and it shows that you do not understand – although you have been a Member for several months now, you have probably followed the work of every single authority before – that you do not know who the protagonist is in the field of preparing measures for the functioning of the country. Gather around, make up your mind, make suggestions, and we'll confront things. We'll put the amendments where we need them. And don't turn things around and point things around! One of the Members here spoke about many things; about charisma, I do not know of any matters of the President of the National Assembly. We are only talking about whether it is appropriate, on the basis of the statements he made for Youth, to lead the National Assembly – given that we have clear principles in the Constitution on human rights, on human dignity, on the foundations, on the constitutional foundations of this country – whether it is not. That's all there is to it. This entanglement with procedural matters, entanglement with other actions, and so on, perhaps when there is an opportunity. The question of discharge by the President of the National Assembly is not respect for the Rules of Procedure, but respect for constitutional arrangements, the Preamble, the Constitution and constitutional provisions. That's the subject today. One more thing, so much so that, because the President – I see – decided not to answer the questions raised earlier. He said: "We were previously bound to a certain type of country which had an inheritance, credibility and a certain recognition in the international community..." This means that if I look at this sentence on the other hand, as if the current Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia has no inheritance, has no credibility and has no recognition in the international community. This is a sentence that is direct, which is written, which has been spoken, reviewed, edited, whatever you want. Now let someone explain to me whether Slovenia does not have an inheritance, is a state without an inheritance, without an inheritance and is a country without credibility. As for the country, Mr President, which you liked so much about these things, I would like to draw your attention to at least two documents that have been produced in the types of courts. One is the constitutional provision that rejected the designation of the street in Ljubljana by Titus, where the Constitutional Court made clear what type of country it was and what follows. And we have the 2002 or 2003 Supreme Court ruling, which also stated that the service that was carrying out secret tasks and was doing such and other illegal work at home and abroad, the criminal institution, the criminal organisation. And you're talking about the type of country with inheritance, quality, recognition, and I don't know who else. This is what we are talking about, we are talking about the emphasis put by the President of the National Assembly in an interview with which he raised and justified everything that has happened in the previous country and discredited what is at the heart of this country's work. That's the point of this debate. What was bad in the previous country is written in the preamble to the Constitution as a result of which the process of the creation of the new Slovenia, the Slovenian State, was initiated. That's exactly what it says! And I propose that the President of the State explain this matter because we understand them differently. And you, too, would do well to discuss these matters, not to mention whether he has given a word or not. This is not the subject of today's discussion. There is no answer to these things that we are now opening and that we have now pointed to — a few of us Members. Not from the President of the National Assembly who said that, not from those who decided to defend him with all the means. Just not with the answers to the questions asked and the arguments that I would expect to be different from ours, but not at all. And that's the problem with this discussion today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you. Reploko wanted Branko Zorman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I know that Mr Tanko, a certain SDS colleagues, would like to live perhaps in another country, where everything would be theirs, but unfortunately we are in Slovenia, where relations are as they are. If they are already so proud of their state-of-the-art, then I would only point out their continued destruction of individual branches of power, with the view of the judiciary, of the constant interference of the work in the National Assembly, of the meetings of the National Assembly, of individual working bodies, of course, and of the very creative conduct of a particular commission. I just urge Mr Tank that when we bring you new laws or some new measures that our government will take on Saturday or Sunday, then I look forward to your support and proof of your genuine statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Look, I'll tell you right away. Any nonsense the coalition will bring to the National Assembly just for the sake of national competitiveness will not be confirmed. That must be clear to you. But I warn you, don't wait, bring, don't blink, don't point your finger at others, do something, so you've got so much support and a lot of expectations for people. As for the question, Mr President of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you for answers to two questions that I have now asked, which I have already asked twice – no answers! I would ask very nicely, so much so that in this part too communication can continue to develop, which I think is exemplaryly flowing, only to be directed in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you. The President, Dr. Milan Brglez, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u162	As an answer, I will read these questions and all the answers, not only in part, as they have been so far, but not only the question of the first sentence, but the whole, because then it is much more clear. The first question was: "Once upon a time, Slovenia presented the traffic lights in Beijing, in Iraq building dams, leading uncharted in Africa. Why are we so unambitious today?" "Because we have gained our country and the country has been "absorbed" by individuals who have exchanged community interests with partials. The fact is that the economy went ahead with a hand in hand for the country. Moreover, the understanding that the national economy is the same as the State was the basis of the previous regime. After that, this observation that the State and the economy must cooperate at a certain level has been lost. I am not talking about daily concrete political decisions, which mainly involve the redistribution of funds. I am talking about a common strategy, a joint performance, a common benefit." Another issue, which was also international in the basic context and is also controversial. "The own country was a step backwards in terms of statehood?" - with a question at the end. "Not in terms of statehood, but in terms of statehood." And that – this is an essential continuation – "The fact is that each new government in Slovenia started its separate story. They acted as if there had been no previous governments and as if the previous governments had done nothing useful. What had happened before was usually marked as bad. It's been a major mistake for the last 25 years. Let me give you an example. Once upon a time, the Slovenian economy was a form of our foreign policy. But when we gained our economic policy and national policies with our own country, we forgot the importance of the national economy." The fact is, after our independence, we left things to our own. We expected some kind of development policy to come on its own. "If we wanted a single policy and wanted to give an emphasis to a particular sector, many small interests came to the fore, which stopped these efforts. The result was a set of small interests instead of one large, state and state(open)” – because this is a combination that can be made with a word. And the third answer and the whole answer and the question: "The bigger story is that Slovenia has become the periphery of the periphery in recent years." Do you really believe that anything can be done within the new international structure? Let's just say that our companies need to take more expensive loans because of their smallness to overcome the weak in open borders. "Is it possible to fake globalisation?" Now my answer is: 'It is not about'misleading' globalisation, rather, to take advantage of the advantages and reduce the weaknesses that globalisation processes bring. We've done absolutely little here in the last 20 years. We have also done little on our recognition and strength in the international community. We've been tied up before..." – this is the one – "a different type of country which had an inheritance, credibility and a certain recognition of the international community. Now we have a country, which is a member of NATO and the EU, and yet it does not know how to use it for its own good." The first step forward is to realize that there is a need to combine power, ability and knowledge, although at the same time we cannot win in all areas. We can be aware of the need to think strategically about our strengths and build on them. I am convinced that something similar applies to the privatisation of national property. Privatisation, which is guided by a sound or strategic approach, can directly or indirectly benefit all residents. However, if these processes go in the wrong direction and someone takes them in, we will all, except for domestic and foreign profiteers, be worse off and we will not together create enough to share, as is the case with the social state. So, for two, the internal international context is already mixed, but basically, whenever it comes to credibility and similar matters, about a different type of country — yes, that one, not classified, some specific role that was and from which, of course, some capital was actually trying to create, in connection with, of course, a different understanding. Of course, we can also say to the intruded, we can say that the intruded, but other countries that have one's own tradition are capable of this understanding of national interest – but not in the essence of this affluence of national interest – and at the moment you know when [[…]] Well, if nothing else, the next week when he comes or today when the Chinese are with us, and the next week when the Germans will be. Whoever you're talking to, you know exactly what's coming to Slovenia. And everyone's saying the same thing and everyone's saying what the German economy wants, but I can't tell what the right one is, but the social-democratic or whatever other government is, it doesn't matter. This was talked about not understanding the need to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Bojan Podródsk, please. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, distinguished President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Tomorrow will be my first regular session in the National Assembly, and if I had to do a summary on Saturday or Sunday, I would first touch on the fact that I did not have a good feeling. Of course, we listened to many words today about why we were elected to the National Assembly. Most of the time, I had the feeling that the coalition was mocking my client, my parliamentary group, or we were proposing one or the other. And, of course, when it's a vote, it's a machine that breaks and moves on. When I listened to the performances of the leaders of the parliamentary groups today, these gentlemen have been overly politicians for a long time in politics and in the National Assembly. Of course, many times today it is also obvious to our Group of Members, as a result of our party, how irresponsible we are, how not to work for this country, but to say that the party is twenty-five years old and I guarantee to everyone here, personally as a member of this party, that I will sign today, that when this mandate is over – I want it to last four years, if it is less than a month or a month earlier – that I will leave this Parliament as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is also what I would like, my fellow Members and colleagues, especially from the Mir Cerar Party, to see this happen to you. Why am I saying this? Let me go back a few mandates when we listened, I repeat, these overturned policies since 2008, everyone knew what was wrong with the Slovenian Democratic Party and no one said what was wrong with the country they were running. Let's see. In 2008, the Social Democrats will be elected. This country was led by the current President of the country in charge. And where did the curve go? Straight down. Of course, in the last year of that term, they were most involved with themselves. New elections. There's a new story coming up. Even one citizen told me that Mr Zoran Jankovic, Positive Slovenia, won these elections. This curve is increasingly falling to the bottom and, of course, as a result, increasing problems for citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. But where is that positive Slovenia now? There are no more Members of Parliament in this House, we have four other Members or Members of Parliament, two Members under another trade mark. And all those people today have been telling us that we've been irresponsible for so many years. Once again, we are aware of why we have been elected and that we will leave here as we were when we entered Parliament. In order not to see independent Members, but to see some parliamentary groups under another brand. We have heard a lot today that we do not find a good word for the President of the National Assembly in our parliamentary group. I have to admit, when I listened to his speech when he was elected to the National Assembly. I think it was a positive one that should pull these round tables together. I listened to him myself on the day of the dead, and I think I told my colleagues to sign under part of his speech. A lot of positives! Of course, it is very wrong that today it sounds like the Slovenian Democratic Party is again inventing some negative things. This happened all week while I was watching — I think I was mostly present in this hall — at a meeting of the National Assembly. When I observe and listen to today's debate, although Mr Trcek of the United Left said they were writing some strange things. Look, we're not the best, we don't have to read it on the media, we have to realize that we're not doing well for this country. When I listened to a possible debate in two hours, it was positive for me. Maybe it's a segment where we need to talk about some things. Even the president of the National Assembly, when he came closer to us when he was sitting quite close to us, I heard many positive ones in his debate. That is how I invite everyone, those who are in the hall, and those who are not, to learn from the interview that the President of the National Assembly, who is second in Slovenia, has had. I urge you, colleagues and colleagues, not to mock us on this segment because the people out there are not funny. I'll stand up for myself in the National Assembly to work for those people who voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Rajić, get Tomaž Gantar ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear High Council, colleagues and colleagues! This time, when greetings are received, it is inevitable that our citizens should also be addressed, for in the first place, on behalf of most of their electorates, they are excused to waste needlessly what does not come back — time — and what is no more — money. The proponent of the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has forced us to enter this game, which is completely unnecessary, wasteful and not least irrational at this time. In this game, the legitimately elected majority must listen to the child’s apparent nagging. As I know that colleagues are both wise and honorable, I am surprised that they have hoped to tell their supporters and sympathizers how small they care about improving the state of affairs in the country and even less for their constituents, if not for all citizens. This initiative kicks in the hole, throwing sand in the eyes, especially those who still trust them. This is a clear and predictable revenge due to a poor electoral outcome, due to the growing loneliness in the ranks of the opposition in the National Assembly and the declining support. This is also the extortion of free television propaganda in a vote after the collapse of all branches of government. It is obvious, however, that there is a willingness to serve with all possible means. There is no longer any choice in the abuse of business in the past, non-state-making activities, and in the context of creating facts. And all of this is for the sake of reanimating the smiling ideology. The Government of Mir Cerar and the National Assembly fully entrusted citizens and citizens with the task of running the bicycles of the Republic of Slovenia towards progress. If we look at the history of the work of the National Assembly in our composition, we see that so far we have been dealing with the interpretation of the load, which is always imposed on us by the same angels of democracy and constantly halting any concrete work process that could mean moving forward and upwards. Citizens still remember and have not forgiven the enormous costs of the recently blackmailed and failed referendum on archives. We can be asked immediately how much money is spent today for the work of 89 Members and all civil servants of the National Assembly. I got the data for 2012 and this amount is 62 000 euros. Who's going to explain that to, say, the floodlords? All day long we are dealing with the resentment of someone who will be consumed by jealousy that one of the leading weeks in Slovenia has dedicated the media space to a quality interview with the President of the National Assembly. The anger is so great and so childishly blind that respected colleagues from the SDS have not found a more suitable way than at state costs to start a senseless witch hunt and demand exile – if not the most binding president of the National Assembly in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. If there is not enough wood to burn a heap in the National Assembly, then after the limits of the Rules of Procedure to a bitter end – or what? Species before employment institutions, types of health care, escape, if not nearly outcast of young students abroad, fear of uncertain pensions in the future, exposed unions between demands and opportunities and a whole range of serious problems in the country; for all of this, you may think it will wait. Milan Brglez must be dismissed, politically euthanized for not knowing the category of statehood; it is also possible to abolish diplomas to all who have studied with him, who have gained knowledge, which they may understand more than any of us; not to let work and breathe to the National Assembly, nor to the Government. It is likely that the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly will soon be followed by the intervention of the minister, the minister, and then the skeletons will jump on the plan — a replica, procedurally, a replica, procedurally, to disability. If there is any more sincere commitment to the delegation entrusted to them in the incentives, I invite them to act in favour of all citizens to abandon the initiative and allow all of us to make a social, parliamentary cultural commitment to serious tasks and to solve real problems. I will conclude with an apology; with an apology to all citizens and citizens, because we cannot yet, but not only by our fault, work as quickly and as creatively or as productively as you wish, because we cannot yet do as we have promised, as we know and as we will in the future. I will not, of course, support the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez. To conclude, there is still a brief thought that does not honor this assembly in its entirety. Today, the world’s international community marks the day of children. I wonder and ask you, but it is not heartwarming that on a day dedicated to children of the world, as the crown of Slovenian society, we have remained completely deaf, blind and mute for children and for many problems of children. I believe there are many of us present who regret the unproductive nature of this day. We can also regret that we failed to survive with our children this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Proposer, please. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I am once again in charge of bringing a document forward and upwards to the National Assembly. If that is not the case, there will be no step up, not forward, but just down and back and, well, in this situation we are now. When you read the motions for a referendum on archives. I asked the President of the National Assembly, but he did not answer what he would do in order to do at least roughly the same as the Bosnians in Srebrenica are burying their victims in Slovenia. There they exhume them, identify them and bury them, solemnly, the whole country tops and our politicians go down, even have some speeches down. What are we gonna do? And when you're at the archives, I also asked him directly what he would do to open up archives, to make them accessible, so that victims or relatives of the victims could come to the realization of their rights, and those who did so would come to the prize, to the deserved punishment. And there's no answer! Speaking of costs, sir. This is how your Minister, when she replaced the director of the police, made $70,000 for the state budget, and you didn't get burned. You will support this and demand something from your minister, and it will probably not be the only compensation that will take place in this mandate of yours, so that you can get the right people to the right places and replace those you do not read anything to them. Klemenčič, who also caused a lot of costs past the budget when he spent money on various investments at the head of the KPK, received a ministerial award. That's a fact! And when you talk about these things, you should open them up. I suggest, however, that you answer some of the questions raised, because now you have answered those from the beginning of the session, when you read them, but you are not the next one to comment on those 70,000 euros of stupid costs to replace the Director-General of the Police. So much for taking care of the budget and public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Andre Couch, to prepare himself for the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. President! When I was thinking about how to discuss and what to say about today's agenda, I wondered what you were like as a 24-year-old person in this adultery of Slovenia. I want a future that will be built on a reconciliation that has unfortunately not yet been achieved. The awakening of surviving ideologies, in my opinion, has no place when we are talking about problems in the present and when we are talking about our future. Unfortunately, it is still too present in society and is simply an obstacle to the development of society. While the young question of the past is of interest, this is certainly not a priority for everyone. While other questions and problems have arisen, others would also talk about it, but it is simply not the case anymore. I want reconciliation and a future that will bring a smile to more people's faces than ever before. Having gained our own country is far from the greatest success of us, Slovenia and Slovenians, whom I think we are not proud of. The fact that we have gained our own country is also a step forward in terms of state-of-the-art, as the President of the National Assembly said in an interview. We ourselves have embarked on the path of development, progress and human rights, but it is by choosing, of course, who leads us, what will be the policy and we are all equally responsible for the design of the present and the future. I agree with those who say that in Slovenia the main problem is that we did not perform the lustration. That is how we today have old motives for thinking in new models of development. This, in my view, is one of the main reasons why Slovenia and Slovenia are not prepared for some concrete reforms and changes that would bring, I can say, new opportunities for development and progress for all of us. Although I met Mr Brglez myself a few years ago in student benches and I thought he was correct and quite popular professor. I was therefore even more disappointed with his statements, which I read in an interview in one of the weeks, because I understood them as sympathy with the totalitarian regime and the spread of the jugonostalgia; not to mention some definitions and interpretations of natural law. In my opinion, this was inappropriate and unnecessary. If you remain in office as President of the National Assembly, I wish and also urge you to work more towards reconciliation, cooperation and not to flirt with totalitarianism in the future. Allow me, members of the coalition, or mainly from the Mir Cerar Party, to this day we have been listening to all the evidence and moralization of what we are going to the SDS. We've been in our party all along, I've been a Member myself in my previous reference, I've been putting in a lot of laws, amendments, recommendations, but when this comes into the National Assembly, it just swings with my hand, and the coalition roller drives everything. After a few months of work in the National Assembly, I feel that this mandate will be similar to those of your jokes and slogans that we are dealing with only this – this is not at all true. Perhaps we could discuss some of the contents if we brought them to the National Assembly, but you have done nothing to date. You're acting on your own, you're not even able to form a government at the end of the day, and now it's all our fault. First clean up before your threshold and then moralize.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Jana Jenko, get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to talk today, but given the amount of manure that went into the coalition today, I have to take a call. If you don't follow everything in detail, I have to say that the sections you hear, but they repeat themselves, especially history, Mr Tanko went even in the Middle Ages, Mrs Eva Irgle, when I wasn't paying attention for a moment, I had the feeling that Dr. Brglez had already been buried, there was a lot of talking about graves and graves. Then Mrs Bah Žibert says that the SDS is not responsible for today's session I think it is precisely him, because he obviously does not read the text in Youth, the complete text, but only certain cuts. [[…]] I'm sorry, but I really think you need to improve a little bit more, although I know you have a very well-organized education on the subject of law, social states and so on, but a little more attention will have to be paid to this, at least after today's two discussions; the first point was called to your request, the second point as well. That is how I feel that this day has really been thrown away, and I must say, poor listeners or those who say that we do not do anything in the National Assembly. And I'm ashamed when they say that because I know what kind of meetings have been going on lately. Your mouth is full of state-of-the-art. If this is state-of-the-art, then I don't even know what state-of-the-art is. Then the word in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, which means country-building, the ability to create a country. I don't think you're capable of that. You're challenging everything. Every time, I'll say my own thing, you're fucking everything and everyone. I must say that it is really not my fault if every second word you say is defending your party president who is unfortunately in prison, and that really hurts you. Now for a few more words about Dr. Brglez. I think he's really capable of running the National Assembly, that the person we can trust is very patient, which I've already found at several meetings. If I were to conduct these meetings, I must say that I might even use a certain article of the Rules of Procedure and throw someone out of the hall, so rudely some of you are expressing yourself. I just wanted to say that I support Dr. Brglez in his work, and I hope he can last four years so we can all last four years. But you, I don't know, a little more bonton, a little more morality, a little more ethics. [[…]] There was a lot of talk about natural law, and above all, the law of nature is moral and ethical, which is based on these two facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u174	Dear Member, it would be good to really listen to each other, because then we will also be heard. I said that today's debate is not the reason for us. No, Your Honor! The reasons are the statements made by the President of the National Assembly, and it is our duty to respond. Look, the fact that you find human rights violations, state-of-the-art issues irrelevant is your value system. That's what you got. I have a different one, I feel something about this country, and I respect it. And whenever country ownership is attacked or excuses are sought for the worst forms of human rights violations, I think it is always worth discussing. It saddens me that you, who have more experience than you said, do not share such an opinion. For if we permit and permit the worst forms of human rights violations, and do not take any stand against them, then we are not all worthy of the National Assembly together. I don't understand what you're running away from, what you're getting away from. Or for what you've been saying, or for hurting you for what I'm saying? But one more thing, Your Honor. Be a little more careful with your words. You're talking about getting educated in some social areas, and I don't know what you said — legal areas? Look, you're gonna have to prove that to me. For what you have said is a lie and a lie, and I believe that you do not do so in general life.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Igor Zorčič. Get Kamal Izidor Shaker ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u176	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, which we are considering today, is not only unfounded but a mere waste of time. We have heard this a number of times today, and this is increasingly evident by the debate. This proposal is not only a waste of time but even an improper one; it is unfair to taxpayers. We are all well aware that this year Slovenia was affected not only by the economic crisis, but also by natural happiness, floods, acorns. We are facing the payment of a huge amount of interest that we must repay at the expense of debts, and at the moment this debate does not belong to this place. We should find some unity, regardless of politics, whether we are left or right, or we are central, and face the problems we have to solve, not some kind of politics. In this respect, this debate can be considered as throwing pollen under the feet. Not to us, coalition or anyone, throwing pollen under the feet of Slovenia. Today, your fellow SDS colleagues have mentioned human rights on numerous occasions, and we have been listening to this since morning, and I am interested to see why you are restricting the President of the National Assembly the constitutional right to freedom of expression. So, freedom of thought, speech and public speaking. Did he break the law or break any code? I didn't hear it. Even if he did not violate the Constitution, you are nothing more than a lump sum — I have now heard in a few words that it was an unethical act. I do not know if this is the reason for restricting the constitutional right of expression or whether I am sure it is not, nor have you convinced me otherwise in this debate. If I go back a little further to the words of my colleague Tank. He started a speech with Berlin today. I don't know how he prepared his speech to explain the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly – but when someone sits down, he says, and now I'm going to start somewhere. I don't know where he found Berlin. All of this clearly shows that darkness is nowhere near in place. On the other hand, it is also worrying, again touching on some historical subjects, not as historians or experts – these topics are very important – but at some political level, which is essentially counterproductive. For the evening of August, Comrade Tanko said that the SDS would act in opposition: "We have a strong professional backing, strong professional headquarters and, of course, also members who are able to propose, design and, of course, implement solutions." Are these the solutions today? I don't know. The collapse of the president of the National Assembly due to an interview in one magazine is probably not such a solution. My colleague Buček Zakošek suggested that you replace the board for the CDs. I'd suggest you trade shit for CDs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. In other words, it regrets that the Group of the parties Mir Cerar and the Government is unable to prepare any act within two months, except one rebalance with five figures. You judge this intellectual elite and we wait for you to make or make your contribution to what you would like to do. But when someone defames and speaks very kindly about what the past country is like, read this preamble in the Constitution, gentlemen. You're probably a lawyer, and without that, you probably wouldn't have done a law school or a judicial exam that you certainly have because you're a lawyer. And if lawyers talk like that about these things, then it's really going somewhere where there's no going back. The President of the National Assembly and all of us do have the right to freedom of speech; he alone speaks as an official as someone representing an institution in this Constitution. And if the official speaks, the first man among us, contrary to the preamble and the provisions of the Constitution, he does not represent the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. You as a lawyer should know that. He doesn't represent. When he talks about how beautiful the previous country was, what it had, he tells us at the same time how bad this country is, and he puts himself in a chain of those who are embroiled with the values of Slovenian independence and independence. All of you who say so tell all the citizens that we do not need this country to be bad, that it is worse than the previous one; and that belongs to this systemic concept that we have witnessed to it recently. That's what all government officials say. When you talk about human rights, you boycott the debates when people come who have been specifically injured in these procedures of the previous country, and you boycott, collectively sign that you will not be. The Ombudsman did not attend these discussions until recently either, and tell me what kind of legal state this is based on human rights. As for the costs that go so well in your nose. $70,000 was just Mr Veniger's replacement, and your minister suggested it. They could be used for floods. At least five families could be saved with this cost. And when we proposed the amendments to the budget, you also talked about the basic accidents; when we proposed the amendments, you were collectively against it. What you are saying today and what you said before is inconsistent with what you are doing. You ask us to make suggestions; when we give them, you're against them. Because you don't invest anything, and we're going to invest, you're going to say we're guessing. We already know these tricks, we know everything, from first to last. If we proposed within 100 days, we would say that we were guessing; if we proposed any action against anyone, there would be another record again. Don't get carried away, we're not naive, we know how to do things, that's right, remember, it'll do you good. We know how to do things, even if we can't do an extraordinary session, we can do things, be sure of that. [[Incomprehensible]] And we're also going to be investing in marriages. We just don't want to ruin these 100 days of peace that the government has, and it's been in a strange way for two or three months. I ask you, Mr Rajić, and you how much it costs to have no economy minister for two months. Is that measured in cents, euros or millions? Millions — Are You Not Concerned?Oh, my God! This session, which costs nothing – gentlemen, you would get paid in any case, whether you would sit here and discuss, or be at home, cost nothing, except for this light, and some people who have to monitor this meeting on official duty – is now such a big problem for you, a terrible problem. But you're not able to prepare a minister, let alone take action, and you're not worried. This is the value system you have, and we will obviously witness the continuation of these stories that Mr Möderndorfer has set up. Where he came from, I guess you can see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I will respond to this whole day-long debate about how Members of the Peace Cerar Party cannot prepare anything. Of course we can't sit here all day. If we sit here all day because of this paper store prepared by the SDS Group, there is also one article from Youth, where a few words are difficult from the context, right? [[…]] And there's a lot of paper like that. You call emergency board meetings, we meet all day by committee, and it's essentially completely counterproductive and unstated. If I just focus on Dr. Milan Brglez – a high school teacher, a doctor of international relations, a man who took responsibility for running the National Assembly, he became the thirteenth president of the National Assembly, who was elected by the constitutional majority of us who are sitting here, Members and Members. A man who, within four months of his mandate, sponsored several projects as we know it, all together in this Chamber are listed in Parliament and outside this house. This address consists of a series of questions and concerns that address the idea of an ongoing fruitless debate. Let me take a look at the situation myself. As we are, unfortunately, almost used to it, the party's proponent likes to refer to the past, to a semi-precious history. The old wounds that should have long since been buried or merely a bitter memory and a reminder to future generations are opened. Of course, I cannot help but wonder why and what, my fellow applicants, in the poor 25 years since you have been sitting in the National Assembly, you have failed to ensure that this dark chapter of our history ends in both the opposition and the coalition. Why didn't you, when you had the chance to give all the victims of interwar and postwar violence a decent grave? Why did we, the party and the coalition, for the first time, enter into a coalition agreement to bury people living in caves and pits all over our country? Why every time this subject opens up, you put salt on the wounds of the Slovenian nation, why? The answer, of course, is a simple force — because it suits you. Because you collect political points at the expense of ideological conflicts because nothing is sacred to you because you do not understand that reconciliation is an honest process that cannot be achieved by this kind of separation of people. Actually, you don't want to understand. By the way, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar supported the SDS's amendment to the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities – the recommendation of the Ombudsman regarding the five-year burial. About half-past history, I will no longer lose too many precious seconds that could be much more useful than has already been said several times today. I warmly advise and recommend to all my fellow Members who abuse parliamentary committees and committees on such topics and malign our highest representative body in front of the whole and also the international public, that they stop doing so because it does not have a good effect on national competitiveness. The long-standing debates of the colleagues of the applicants of this pointless proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly in the future, which we have listened to even on Tuesday at the 2014 budget rebalancing, highlight – the 2014 budget rebalancing, 11 months ago, seem to prove that our colleagues, while stressing their state-of-the-art stance, see mainly the past actions of the served regime and in all those belonging to the other political party, my dear, in view of the rich history of your party, would expect a more constructive state, but I see only destructiveness. [[...]] With all due respect to older colleagues and colleagues who have been sitting in this area for some time because of today's and similar perceptions to the less respected National Assembly, we are always listening to the evidence that things are not working and how we should start working now in the four months of this Parliament's operation, I say the opposite. And it could also be argued by someone else that the picture of this mandate is a diametric contradiction to all the previous ones. Is this perhaps the result of the mismanagement of this institution? How do you even have the face that you've been doing nothing but to the government and its president for two months now that this country is not working, but you were alone once in this place. How many of you are still sitting in this room with scissors and canvas, and you haven't sorted out the obvious. The party's proposer has been sitting in the National Assembly since its independence, leading the government twice. Were there then any anti-floating measures that you are now exposing to the budget's rebalancing? Have you made any investments in transport infrastructure? You probably did. Did you take good care of state-owned companies? I guess so. Or were you concerned only with the overpaid equipment of a certain ministry? Until our mandate comes, we have been repeatedly raped in this so-called temple of democracy by one parliamentary party with a half past history, which we cannot change because we learn from past mistakes. Do you think that's right for your electorate and your electorate? You have been elected to constantly accuse your political opponents of co-operation by condemning a valuable corrupt political system. When I read this explanation of the proposal to dismiss the President by the biggest opposition party, I found that the paper we received was an example of good practice in ripping words out of context, misleading, superficial reading and lack of understanding of ideas and concepts that should be close to the Members. This totalitarian reflex just fell into my eyes. I didn't feel it. Did you get him? I'm sorry, I can't take this proposal seriously. That, on the basis of a newspaper article and words taken out of context, you demand the first resolution of the same – this is extremely inappropriate for the Institute of the President of the National Assembly as well as for the democratic and constructive political process. But as I said in the introduction, this is part of the most opposition party policy. This is your modus operandi, which also appeared in the early elections to the National Assembly, and you are still following this. Continued disrespectful, patronizing and humiliating debates, unworthy representatives of the Slovenian people, and attacks on the Party of Mir Cerar; some of these discussions are extremely inappropriate and do not deserve any comment. I suggest that the time and energy we are wasting on such matters should be directed to something more beneficial, to what you have gained — constructive opposition. It was said that you would do this and that you wanted to help us. Several times it was said at the first sessions that you would help us. Yeah, we do, actually. I hope and still believe that in time you will be able to overcome this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u182	Just a sentence. Instead of asking us, Mr. Shaker, you are the president of the Committee on Finance, sit down and review all the budgets in history. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Whatever. But if it is not, let him look, now he has time, because nothing is happening in the National Assembly, and he will be able to make a full analysis of the efficiency of government work as regards investments, measures or anything else. And if you want to know which mandate was the most successful, print out the agendas of the previous first term, you will see what the Heads of Government have brought to the meetings of the National Assembly. This time, apart from the debate on ever-new ministers, we have nothing at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u184	Kamal Izidor Shaker is not Chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, to prepare the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u186	Dear President, esteemed President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! It saddens me that we are wasting our time today, wasting the time of our experts in the National Assembly, wasting our time in support services and wasting our taxpayers' money to discuss words that have been torn out of context, words that you have unhappily hung up on the meanings that the words spoken do not bear. It is interesting that some of you read the interview in Youth selectively. Allow me to quote another question and answers in an interview where the president also commends you; even more so, he advocates you. I hope, in part, to meet the demands of my colleague, Duck. The question is: You are in the first place a professor. If parliamentarians were to compare with their students, how would they characterize SDS? Are they troubled students? Is there a problem at home? They need to be understood? Do they need professional help or are they just looking for attention? The president of the National Assembly reminds the journalist, "I think you're being a little too hard on them." What's more, he's actually saying "thank you." "In contrast to most students, colleagues from SDS usually have a clear strategy and can present it very well. They are skilled in procedures, they are divided in tasks and they are good speakers, and in particular they clearly pursue their objectives." I add that you are making extremely good use of the political resources that you have at your disposal. What's more, you're far from the best at this. As the President has always acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the conduct of the National Assembly, there is no reason for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly from the point of view of parliamentary practice so far. On its side is also the public, I can support this with the result of a public opinion survey published on 27. Ten. 2014 in the newspaper Delo. More than half of the respondents do not support the initiative. There are only 14% of those who would replace President Brglez. As the President himself has mentioned, the reasons for the discharge are based on the withdrawal of statements from the context, the adaptation of the statement, the filling and mentioning of things that have never been said. I propose that we focus more energy and time on saving this country, that young people have jobs, that pensioners get higher pensions and that we all live better together. And yes, today we are dealing with ourselves again at the initiative of the SDS Group. For the reasons set out above, I do not support the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Lilliani Kozlovich, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, your proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is legitimate. But the question is the reason, so the essence is actually why you want to discuss it today – an interview and its interpretation. And when a simple person reads this interview – and so did I, you don't even come to think of interpreting things the way you interpreted them. In fact, if you don't read the whole interview, and if you don't know the thing, you can still believe that what you're saying is true, it can convince you. But why do we understand things so diametrically opposite, you in one way, we in another way, maybe someone else again? Because we are different and it is also because it is essentially the foundation of democracy. As a result, we also have many different political parties in Parliament with our programmes and our values. From this explanation you are referring to, in fact, the statements made by the President of the National Assembly concerning the former Yugoslavia, the position on post-war killings and the revolution, you are confronting through the ideas and programmes of the three political parties – yours, SMC and in one part the United Left. And since everyone understands things differently, let us take a little look at these three political options so that we may understand why you interpret it. In the introduction to your program published on the website, you also talk about the past when you look to the future. And when we know that, it's easier to understand your interpretation. I quote. "After severe historical experiences in other state communities where we were a minority, after the severe experiences of the two world wars, after the tragic experiences of the fratricidal revolution, after the distressing experiences of the loss of human rights in the totalitarian regime, we have joined ourselves in the belief that we will preserve the human civilization of freedom, prosperity and solidarity of all inhabitants. After the independence and implementation of the fundamental democratic structures and the rule of law, Slovenia has not taken advantage of all its development options, as the ruling political elites, who have exhausted their political power from the old regime, have used the transition processes to their advantage, even in new systemic circumstances." There's nothing wrong with that look on your face. It's perfectly legitimate. But you also criticize this country and somehow deny it credibility, at least that's how we understand it. And when we look at the United Left programme, they also look back, with a desire for change. I quote. "After the breakup of Yugoslavia, Slovenia has been considered a good decade to be a success story. Slovenia has been accelerating trees to the European periphery for a decade. It is becoming a partially colonial country where the labour force must be as cheap as possible, the capital is as low as possible and the social state is as thin as possible. However, it is in order that capital from the countries of the European Centre of Slovenia, with the help of local servants, would generate as much profit as possible. It is time to say with pride the words left and socialism; it is time to demand democratic ecological socialism." And even with their view, there's nothing wrong with it. It's legitimate. Their definition can also be understood in some way as denying credibility to our country, as you interpret. And look at the SMC program. There is no evaluation, no criticism, no definition – and that is because we are here, now, without ideological omens, no demagogies, no left and no right. You mark us left, right. We never said that. We're just here and we want to move on. And our programming platforms say, "We are in favour of a state of prosperity based on cooperation, knowledge and responsibility." We may not be the best, but right now we're ruling. All these years you've been fighting for your idea that you're trying to take responsibility for things that have happened in Yugoslavia and in the new country. By what logic? This client was created a few months ago. Where have we been, where have we been, where have you ever been in power to try to pin this on us? We don't honor the former states. There may have been something good in her, and there may have been a lot of bad things in her, or she wouldn't have fallen apart. We do not excuse postwar beatings because they are repudiated acts; on the contrary! It was the President of the National Assembly who proved this in his address regarding the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and the Day of Remembrance of the Dead. And the speech of the 25th. 8. is the answer to all your allegations. If you want, I can read it all because it's amazing. But I'm only going to be part of it because the President has already said a lot about him today. I quote. "The Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Totalitarianism requires us to carry out our civil duty and to preserve in our memory the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, their relatives and all individuals who have been directly or indirectly affected with them." End of quote. And then there's part of speech one. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth I quote. "Unfortunately, we look past each other too often, and our handshake is cold. This is attributed to unhealed wounds against victims of war, war and post-war violence throughout the territory of Slovenia. Some of them have not yet found their decent rest. Here our country has been denied because the arrangement of decent graves of all victims is not primarily and must not be a political issue, but a question of ethics and humanistic imperatives." End of quote. And how can you answer that the president of the National Assembly excuses postwar killings? With regard to the revolution – you implement the explanation from the definition of revolution. Her definition can really mean what you're saying. Sudden, unexpected, and even by most unsolicited changes. This has really happened in history. In the past, however, there has also been a velvet or gentle revolution that has led to positive changes in the social system and the life of the country in general. And what's the lesson from that. That definitions are never absolute, just as nothing in this world is absolute, there are always nuances. But I can't defend the revolution, nor can the President of the National Assembly, nor can the SMC, at least in the context of the definition as you state it. The Members of the United Left, who are cited in your explanation, Mrs Tomić and Mr Kordiš, are, of course, completely free in their thoughts and ideas. Perhaps he would be president of the National Assembly in the United Left if he advocated revolution, but he is not — he is a member of the SMC party. And what I want to tell you and all of us with this – that ideas should be SDS, United Left, SMC, SDS, Desusa, ZaAB and any legitimate political options, expression of plurality. But, dear colleagues from the SDS, I respect each and every one of you, as you said before, and your ideas, even though sometimes I wonder if you really believe in certain things you say. Realize your ideas honestly, do not turn things around, and do not create feelings of hatred among people, because with this debate today people will be really angry. Change your way of working, do not delay the meetings of the National Assembly by repeating this. Do not take advantage of the business opportunities for tiring Members and governments. Before that, Comrade Kamal told us when to make the laws. Saturdays, Sundays? We're only doing it with your tactics. And again. We understand that you have different ideas, are legitimate and respect them. But we can no longer respect the way you do them; but we can understand them as an attempt to overthrow power, as a form of revolution that you spoke of. Maybe your goal is to drag us into the abyss. In fact, you are dragging the whole country into it by your actions and by making it impossible for the authorities to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President. After many hours, as I foretold, this really happened. You don't have to be smart enough to figure that out, but still. Still, I waited for my colleague Jožet to say a few bright things; and he did. Now I've been listening to my colleague Andrea, who says why this interview is being read so selectively. It's not read selectively, it's interpreted differently. The problem is that they love paraphrasing and abstraction in this party. There is one rule that interpreters and translators must respect. If you interpret, paraphrase and abstract, you must not change the essence of the message; because if you do, it is no longer an interpretation, but it is a new product under which someone else signs it. And that's the way they are. So this problem that we'd like to sell from the SDS lab is that it's something new or something new. Today, only someone is happy — this is the magazine Youth. Today there were quite a few clicks because some who failed to read this interview really now went to read again what really is so magical in this interview. You have made the youth a free EPP, which is otherwise very expensive to pay on any electronic medium to roll for five hours. But you know what five hours is. Ads count in seconds, not hours, please. However, since our national television network repeats this over and over again, success has been ensured. If I go to the essence of the content now – Jože said the following sentence that "the President of the National Assembly who represents," and then waved with this booklet – the Constitution, "presents what is in here," said he, "you are simply," now I will paraphrase, I should not allow that. See that I make the matter easier; I went to read these complaints and these four indents, which are crucial and fundamental. I am also a Member of the National Assembly, I sign these four, and I agree with that. Are you going to make any requests for withdrawal or withdrawal or do I not know what else? Jože, here's the problem, because you're sitting in the wrong chair, but I have to play to sit there, but good At the end of the day, of course, what's very important to me. [[…]] I'll show you what it looks like when someone misinterprets and metaphors when he's talking about the Berlin Wall. It shows that on one side they were driven by Trabants and Warburgs; on the other side by Audis and Mercedes. You know, I don't have a lot of negative feelings about Warburg, but in 1972 my dad bought it, and we were so happy to be kids. Whenever anyone mentions a quarter to me, I remember my father, which is nothing bad. Imagination and ideas can do different things; however, if this work of imagination is led by the biggest opposition party who even takes advantage of it and abuses it for some sort of precedent that has no place in this space. Of course, the move they have made is legitimate and even legal under the Rules of Procedure, but it is unsavoury especially because it is abused. Good luck next time, but you better get ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Franco Jurša, to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I wasn't particularly prepared because you invited me to this debate earlier. I do not intend to speak for long because I have had this opportunity and opportunity to present the position of our Group of Members, as well as my position on the open subject. About the support of President Brglez I told everyone, we didn't know him, we met him, we know he's an expert, we know he's a good leader of the National Assembly, we know he didn't say that for one of the magazines, a week in Slovenia. Basically, we are talking, we are discussing in this Chamber; but from this discussion, we will not take away anything useful, believe. I have already said in my explanation of the delegation's position that this will bring nothing positive to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and I feel the same about this matter now. However, I have some things to explain, but I do not want to encourage a heated debate in advance. Today, there was talk, some saying that we were watering the manure after the second party or other party. If the Slovenian Democratic Party talks within the Parliamentary Group, and if the leader of their parliamentary shine participates in this meeting, and some who have sat in this National Assembly for some time, they will say that Jurša has never and never done so. Not to the Party and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor to other Group of Members and Parties. I don't have this habit, and I don't want to do it in the future. Today I have only reacted because I have estimated that we have not been able to endure for even 100 days in order to avoid the question of the confidentiality of the President of the National Assembly. At least we would have waited so long for it to run out, or maybe later, or we would have waited a little longer to see if Mr Brglez was the person who is leading well. In my opinion and in the opinion of our Group of Members, this is doing well. Now I'm going to have a little more watering, and I'm not going to talk to anything. Let's take a look at the magnetograms. It also gave me little incentive today to react in this way, to who, to whom, and what, to how he does it. Magnetographs will show you exactly. I am concerned that someone is talking about what the President of the National Assembly is supposed to say about one week in Slovenia, that we are talking about some of the issues related to the electoral law, which does not concern Mr Brglez, or this agenda item that we have today at this meeting; but they are only talking about spilling what they said we were drinking. The threshold of our parliamentary group is relatively clear in this regard; however, when there is trouble around this threshold, I will try, together with some, to take large brooms and clean them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u194	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. My highlight of today's debate will begin with the words mentioned a few hours ago by your fellow Member of the Party Mir Cerar when she paraphrased Dr Bučar when he said a few years ago that our country had fallen apart and was falling apart before our eyes. I must admit that, in fact, I came into politics because of such a statement. If I was at least symbolic in 1991 as a member of the first honorary company 300 meters away, where we declared a new country on 26 June evening; and when we also launched a flag with a totalitarian symbol, I naively believed that this country would begin to build on some new foundations, on foundations that would be solid as a rock, that this would not be based on sand, that people's views would change, that it would change the ethos of the Slovenian nation and that we would start building on some new person, on some new vocabulary, on a vocabulary that would be a western civilization. I have to admit, after a few years I went abroad, I was gone, I wasn't involved in politics. I've never done this before. I've been following her laityly, just like most of you are likely to. In 2011 I somehow felt that there was a re-incarnation of the former totalitarian system in Slovenia, and I came into politics precisely from this point of view because I believed that our citizens and citizens could not see what could bring quality to life, capitalism. But this country has never even been given the opportunity to be able to enforce capitalism, which is known to the highest developed Western European countries. That's why Dr. Butcher's words are of great importance to me, including my political action. What needs to be said, however, in the statement by Dr. Bučar, should be a 1990 statement – 'lustration in Slovenia only through my body'. That's the point of this country. The State acts as well as the institutions in this country. The totalitarian system in the former Yugoslavia had five monopolies. The first monopoly that was created was the political monopoly of one party, which came to this monopoly in a bloody way. At or before the opening of the 5th Party Congress, Kardelj said that we would go into a revolution if the conditions for the revolution were favourable. This revolution was favourable conditions, with the attack of Nazi and fascist Italy on the then Yugoslavia, these were extremely favourable conditions. It's amazing that a party that had a few hundred members won a reputation and brought us to third totalitarianism. That's amazing. We have to congratulate them. But in this she carried out a non-social revolution, under the cover of the social revolution, she carried out a Bolshevik revolution, Mr President. The revolution of the Lumpenproletariat. This has nothing to do with natural law. The revolution of lumpenproletariat in a biological sense – the best of individuals defeat the worst. Here, however, the worst individuals defeated the best, they defeated the antiquity, the ancient Slovenian elite families, craftsmen, peasants, academic elites in Slovenia, all those who also founded the university, etc. And when we talk about it, we also need to know that this system, the former totalitarian Yugoslavia, started in the blood. Last but not least, in one of the reports in 1952, Ranković was very happy to announce to Josip Broz Tito at one party congress: Dear Mr Marshall, we have successfully eliminated 720 thousand Yugoslavs. 720 thousand by 1952. And one more thing. The biggest problem in this totalitarian Yugoslavia was that in 1946, 1947, victims of World War II began to be identified. Yugoslavia cited a million 700,000 victims. The Allies have confessed to them 300,000 military casualties and 50,000 civilian casualties. For everything else they literally told Tito, and these are your victims, your so-called social revolutions, I call that the revolution of the Lumpenproletariat. [[…]] Why the revolution of the Lumpenproletariat? That's because you can see what it's like to have a lumpenproletariat rule for 45 years. You can look at the architecture of Ljubljana. It's the only place to start. You can look at the academic elites, you can see how they also destroyed mostly humanistic studies, how they destroyed the law, how they destroyed sociology. We can take a look at all of this. It is also necessary to know on what basis this Yugoslavia lived. It lived to have occurred in the 1950s to a total breakdown of the economic system. She lived with foreign loans all the time. She lived in a totalitarian system that was most sophisticated, according to many historians, throughout Europe. The most sophisticated socialist system, everyone controlled everyone. Maximum number of people per population. All this was this Yugoslavia. In 1988, we had 11,000 per cent inflation in this country, Mr President-respected. Eleven thousand. And there is no positive aspect of this country. Nothing's what it was. All the nations around us have evolved incredibly, people have had an incredible standard, in Austria three times better wages than here. In 1939 we had 78% of GDP in neighbouring Austria, but in 1990 we were on 28% of Austria. It's just an economic break. The breakdown in respect for human rights, respect for law and everything else was much deeper. The totalitarian regime also created a new man who had a new system of values. This system of values was built on lies, on a false history that wasn't history, but they were myths. Most of the people's heroes, the so-called heroes of the revolution, were half-lettered. They were typical Lumpenproletariat representatives. Most national heroes were shepherds. It is also important to realize that all these people have received for as many people killed as possible, as much as possible a revolution as possible, the numerous urban dwellings of the people who killed them. Today you have around the National Assembly, Mr President, a whole series of five-, six-, seven-bedroom apartments. In them is a stylish baroque furniture, in which are stored by people who have robbed those who killed them, works by Ivana Kobilica, Grohar and so on, or sold it to many of their descendants [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u195	Mr. Breznik, I have one request: if perhaps you would return to the darkness of this day. [[applause, advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u196	My debate will be a long one, because I think it's a lesson in history. A lesson in history that is a real history to be known. Why is there such indoctrination of some people, including some of the colleagues I see. It is a logical explanation, fascism began with the so-called march to Rome in 1922 and lasted until autumn 1943. The rise of Nazism when Hindenburg proposed Hitler to chancellor. Hitler became Chancellor in 1933, the following year after the death of President Hindenburg he became president. So until 1945 it lasted, in fact, only 12 years. The Bolshevik Revolution, which began in 1917, lasted until the fall of the Berlin Wall, I can tell. And it still lasts in some countries today. The problem of indoctrination of people that we are prisoners of all these indoctrinations is what it is; what the President of the National Assembly said earlier is why we are not united. We're not uniform because our ethos are different. But the Etos is different because of these things that I explained earlier, because some of our parents protected us from them, they raised us in a different spirit. Others were prisoners of totalitarianism, including prisoners of complete indoctrination from the time they entered kindergarten or the first class of elementary school, when you became socialist pioneers, and to this day. All of this is now entangled in our personal ethos that we have. As a result, this seeming reality, which shows that we are divided, is so powerful. And all this power, all this potential, if we want to combine it, we need to look at what our common values are. What are the minimum standards that we can even identify ourselves about? You'll never be able to convince me or most people that Titus's Yugoslavia was a good thing. She wasn't, look, she wasn't, she never was. Slovenia had a number of other opportunities, including that it was the beginning of a Slovenian state. That's not true. This is what the whole range of things can tell you about Cankar from the grave, what they did with him in 1918, when he did not agree to us entering the first Yugoslavia; how the great Serbian sympathizers killed him in the middle of Ljubljana and so on. That's exactly what this fragmentation is about. When you say a German delegation is coming, I lived with this nation for a few years when I was working. The Germans condemned their Nazis, totally. As one of my colleagues explained earlier, they had the Nuremberg processes, they were 12, they started with them in 1946, there was the biggest shift in law, in the history of law. So when the responses of the then Nazis were made, it is necessary to know that in Nuremberg, not only military commanders were convicted, politicians were convicted, those who were in the economy were convicted, lawyers were also convicted, and lawyers were convicted in recent trials, during the 9th to 12th trial, which ended in 1949. [[…]] The biggest movement that happened when they were told: Dear colleagues, this was not the right of civilized nations, this was not right with human values. That's why the Germans have at least part of the common ethos today. They know what was wrong. Every day they teach their children, grandchildren, guide them, see what they have done, see what they have done, never again, ever again. The other two totalitarian regimes came out without a large tribunal. And this is the biggest problem that has happened to us in Europe; without condemning crimes. In this national assembly, Mr President, we have had a committee of colleagues Irgle's, including in the previous reference, even in this. This committee is attended by many victims of this totalitarian regime of Yugoslavia; not by victims of postwar beatings or their relatives, but by victims from the 1970s and 1980s. There are many foreign intellectuals who have been sentenced, say, to a verbal delinquency of eight and a half years in prison. Dr. Anto Kovacevic, a philosopher who doctored in Vienna for eight and a half years for three jokes about Titus. And the man wrote the Penal Code, Article 133 and studied it, is still a worthy professor of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana today. Look, it can't be that we protect the dignity of some people who have been victims of totalitarianism or their relatives. At every step, we destroy their dignity, with every street, with every monument standing opposite the Presidential Palace. Someone who said - kill everyone, in the end, if there are only three, the important thing is that they are Communists - has a monument next to the Presidential Palace. That's not normal. We have 11 streets in Ljubljana named after Knoev liquidators. That's insane! I suggest you take a board of what these people did good. And this is the people in the nation that carried Herman the Potočnik, who carried the greatest European intellectuals, who has his own language, which has its ultimate identity. Is that what we need? Mr. President, is that what we need? See what the Slovenians have accomplished in this time, since the Middle Ages, when we said that we are in the custody of the peoples of Habsburg Austria. We even had the Vienna Archbishop Mr Slatkonja in the 16th century. The church has already established Knaf's institution in the 17th century in Vienna and so on. These are all things that hurt us. Some of the citizens and citizens are in pain, and this is where we need to be united. What do we have in common? What are we judging? And to condemn this never to happen again. There's already been a mishap. But it's not a matter of order. The point of reconciliation is not to repeat these mistakes. And we make these mistakes over and over again. I would never condemn the Union of Fighters if I were to expel people who killed after the war, they would say – you are not with us, you have not acted in favour of some independent Slovenia. They're not! Like me, I can't walk around with the symbols of patriotism, Nazism and fascism and tell that to one of you; maybe the fascists, the Nazis killed his grandfather or his grandmother. That's not what I'm supposed to do. We can't provoke people because I think this wound of the Slovenia is extremely strong. And why is this essential? It is only because of this, Mr President, because the foundations are constantly being broken down, the foundations of this country. I spoke earlier about monopolistic situations, we can talk even today – economic monopolism, economic enterprises. All day long, a whole range of companies are coming out, these companies are running out, they don't have real profits and everything else. The media space, educational institutions, the judicial system that we have already discussed today, we have built all of this on sand, not on concrete. All these institutions have fragile parts, including part of criminal organisations that have moved into a normal democratic system. And that is the essence of the problem of the Slovenian state. We don't have normal media space. We don't have a normal courtroom, so we didn't build on judges who didn't deserve this job anymore. And in the judicial system, we have a whole bunch of high-quality judges, quality prosecutors, who deserve to come to the highest positions; and they don't have that option because they're in the middle of nowhere, literally. The same is true in educational institutions and at all levels – from primary school to university. That's what's causing our country to collapse. We put only one institution on a solid foundation, on a new basis, with new people, that was the Slovenian Army. This is why the Slovenian Army today enjoys the greatest confidence of citizens and citizens. With the lowest wages, this institution has the highest confidence in it. This is the essence of everything – because we built it on new foundations, on healthy foundations, on the values of Slovenian spring, on the values of Slovenian independence as the greatest achievement of Slovenia in all its history. Every statement, Mr President, I believe in at least some of your words today. Nor did we have the false hope of achieving this, but we have achieved some debate. One debate to finally come to a conclusion, what is right and what is wrong, what are human values and what are not. And look, it's progress. In the previous reference, we had five former members of the State Security Service here. In this reference, I believe there is no one else. At least there's some progress. In the previous reference to the four sessions, people could not confirm that the Criminals of the Judgment were to be persecuted. They couldn't confirm it. They couldn't confirm that the victims were finally buried. They could not confirm that they were asking the Slovenian prosecutor to find the murderers of Stephen Montenegrin; and they are still being searched today. Last time we had failed the murder of Nicole Stedul on the committee, in which the State Security Service also participated. Two of those who worked together are lawyers, one is a judge in Maribor. And that statement I made today should have triggered the processes. Does Member Beznik have a vivid imagination or what is going on? It's in a normal democratic system alarm for something. And all of this shows that you are the foundation of this country, this indoctrination, this tantrum is so strong. I believe that the sacrifice, the sacrifice of our customers, may be great; but I am sure that we will take a big step in Slovenia. It's not an omen. You who are new to Parliament do not need to defend these totalitarian foundations. You don't have to defend it because you're not guilty, you're new people, you're new politicians, and we don't judge you. So come to the committee, we can have a very calm debate, we can make some conclusions. Because if there is no such conclusion, if the nation is not united on some grounds, then all energy cannot be invested in solving the economic problems of this country. That's essential. Let me get back to the law of nature. I will quote the academic, regular professor Dr. Slobodan Perović, who wrote Naturally true and universal values. "Of course the law is universal and human. It's not about nationality and race, because all people before nature are the same. Of course, law is super-positive, primary and original. Compared to positive law, the natural right is perfect, ideal, ideal and is, philosophically speaking, absolute. The principles of natural law are partly incorporated into imperfect positive law. In relation to the principles of natural law, positive law can be more or less unanimous with them, and it can still be in a long distance or it is in complete conflict with them. For example, in the case of various discrimination according to birth. Today, natural law is increasingly consistent with human rights, which are universal values. The exercise of fundamental rights is based on the commutative distribution of justice, which has been fundamentally guided by the culture of law since the antiquity." Today I wanted to explain the complete history of the Law School. I wanted to talk about Aristotle. I wanted to talk about Thomas Aquinas and so on. I believe I can use this time more usefully. But I'd still like to wrap up a few thoughts. The fundamental foundation of this country is that we have strong foundations on which the main institutions of this country are based. If the foundations of these institutions are strong, if a part of the policy is also identified here with fundamental values that are supposed to be fundamental values, which are universal, which are common to humanity, as has been written by academic Perović, then progress will be made for this country. Then there will also be progress in this economic and financial sense of this country. If we do not make this progress, if we continue to live again and again in the world that the former totalitarian country has made us, these mental concepts, then we will not find any better solutions, for better people's lives, for greater dignity. Because, last but not least, we can measure dignity through money, even through having a better standard, so that we can live easier so that pensioners can survive than they used to say. But the biggest guarantee for people who are retired is a healthy economy. In the absence of a healthy economy, their pensions are also severely threatened in the long run. Mr President, I believe that we have said what we thought. I believe you will appreciate these common values, the Western civilizational standards. And last but not least, we promised when we entered the European Union of States when we entered NATO and that we were all aware of it; all those who sat here in this great assembly. However, if we believe that the former totalitarian Yugoslavia has been something good, that our then Presidency or Yugoslav Presidency has been part of the so-called unlisted countries in the 1960s and 1970s. I think my colleague Tanko has mentioned to you a whole series of military dictatorships, where there was a whole series of totalitarian regimes where there were a whole series of human rights violations. A number of these countries have been in international tribunals, a whole number of these people have been convicted at international tribunals – then they are not values. They're worth going back to what's common to all of you, which doesn't separate you. And we need to look out for what does not separate us from each word. We can't complain and we can't, as someone said before, insert salt into the wounds of people who have experienced the horrors of this Yugoslavia, this totalitarian regime, the most sophisticated one, and where this lustration, which Mr Bučar, if I repeat my beginning, did not allow in 1990. There's no progress, there's a return, there's a reincarnation of former totalitarian regimes. This was also discussed by the 1996 resolution on totalitarianism. What happens if this doesn't happen, what will come back, what is the danger of these young democracies being innocent. Where institutions are not possible, the intrusion of all these patterns of non-democratic regimes is even greater. Therefore, Mr President of the National Assembly, I appreciate your position. I believe that in your interview you may have thought otherwise that you had a lapsus. We wanted to point out in some way that we had to identify ourselves once, what's a crime, what's a punishment, what's right and what's wrong. And from the discussions I have heard today, including most of my colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we have taken a small step forward in 2014, so I am optimistic. However, I believe that we will take another step forward to find our common values. This is our goal, and these common values may also be those that build some of the country-building that you have previously talked about, Mr President. Statehood builds common values, regardless of political affiliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Franz Breznik for his primary history lesson. I think we all graduated from elementary school, so it was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. And the last 7 minutes of the debate was what was substantive when you started talking about natural law. There, however, the president of the National Assembly was directly and directly affected. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. What you have now allowed yourself, in conclusion, shows that you are drawn to some great pain, that Mr. Breznik has told you things that are completely holding. If anyone thinks that Mr. Breznik, including you, has not told the right facts, the right data, you have all the opportunity for replicas and you will object to the claims he has made. However, the fact that someone abuses the presidency or the position of chairing a meeting of the National Assembly in order to deal verbally with a Member does not spell out this in any of the rules of service. This can be afforded by someone who has usurped the right to conduct and comment after a long time and beyond anyone who has spoken before. You have the opportunity, Mr President, to hand the lead over to someone else, to go to the bench and tell you what you think it may be different from what my colleague Franci Breznik said. But they're holding things together. In this way, the only account that has taken place today, chaired by one of the Members, is two accounts with Mr Breznik. If you were as consistent as you were not, you would warn anyone who spoke about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I do not know about the abuse of the Commission for petitions, and say that this is not true. But you didn't, you didn't, you didn't respect the integrity of the Member, you didn't respect what he said; and don't let anyone have the opportunity to object. But you take the right, and as a dictator, you deal with someone who's supposed to do something wrong and say it wrong. However, I know that what Mr Breznik has said is a great pain – it is a pain to you, it is a pain to the President and it is a pain to all those who have confirmed this presidency because it is fundamentally contrary to a democratic regime. We are a member of the European Union, we are a member of NATO and there we celebrate the fall of barricades, walls and borders; we celebrate something that was before Slovenia alone. Wrong world; you say we're a democratic society. I think we should take the initiative to warn in this National Assembly anyone who speaks contrary to what happened in 1991. Above all, to welcome events that took place a few years earlier or much longer. But not that someone who has told the facts that hold – if they do not hold – you will call the meeting and we will reopen the debate – will be charged in this way. Absolutely without need, not worthy, sir. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would have a procedural proposal given that colleague Breznik found that we had already told ourselves everything we had to say. One of us knew that about four hours ago. I would suggest that we give up the rest of our time and go straight to the vote. That's my procedural proposal. On the other hand, I allow myself to comment on the fact that what you're doing is actually violence. That's why I brought up this pen that I got in the mail from the Non-Violent Communication Society, and it says, "I put on a white ribbon because I don't cause violence, because I don't overlook violence, because I don't encourage violence, I take appropriate action, and I do it against violence. And what you do is violence against the state, against the citizens, and against all those who now listen and watch. My procedural proposal is that we give up the rest of our time and go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u201	I cannot accept this procedural proposal. Dr. Milan Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you. Somehow what remains unanswered, or firstly, I will mention those parts of the interview that have been disputed in one way or another, so that it will again be clear what has been said. In the context of the answer to who is the hardest negotiator, the word also applied to the United Left because it seemed like they were the hardest negotiator. Part of that answer is to say that they may have been. "The United Left has just a simple ideological agenda. Then there is New Slovenia, which in a rather interesting way imposed its model of social development." And I'd rather not hurt anyone else here. And then we come up with what's really simple, and they ask us what these negotiations looked like and what the impressions of it were. Inside it came that famous sentence you refer to as totalitarian, but it really has no intention of being anything like that. But he is trying to draw attention to the general, social significance – including revolutions, because we know evolutionary and revolutionary changes. And I always call these revolutionary changes ontologically. The one who asked me knows that, too. The second question is, of course, whether this is very clear from the context of this entire statement. And it is indeed stated here that: "In the SMC we have never considered ourselves neoliberals; but we are sure that we need to be more open in the field of the economy than Slovenia at present is, if we want to pursue our goal, this is a greater prosperity for citizens. The idea of revolution, which is advocated in the United Left, may be attractive to us, but it is not real in the current global economic constellation. It would be unrealistic to convince people to follow such ideas; and until conditions are ripe, they should eat grass." Here's the thing that they've, I think, resented on the United Left. "At least the most problematic in the negotiations was the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek..." and so on. Here is one context of the answer to these ideas, but these things have nothing to do with concreteisation, any political revolution or anything else. It is a simple fact that if the world changes and also revolutionaryly changes, so will we. We are part of this globalized world and it is absolutely impossible for us to remain an island. I don't know, we could have been, 50 years ago, we could have imagined islands like this, they certainly didn't look like models. Even those who remained, in particular as notable examples of totalitarianism – bigger than the former country we came from because we had to survive somewhere in this part of the world – we know North Korea. We know all kinds of things where this thing is a lot more totalitarian, but let's just leave it. These comparisons make no sense; they make sense of those who relate to this territory where we live. However, as for the great simplification, it is only necessary to say that – this natural right was in the context of the answer to the fact that it is very simplistic, how it is easy to resolve the question of Janez Janša. And in this context, there was an explanation of what is positive and what is natural. But I would like to draw attention to another matter — the one that hurts me. In fact, there's a point 2 on the charge, and after joining me, it connects me to the Communist Party and, B, connects me to the Udba. Let us see how this can be done in a simple way. The President of the National Assembly, in the following interview, compares the Republic of Slovenia with the SFRJ with the words, "We were previously bound to a different type of country that had an inheritance, credibility and a certain recognition of the international community, but now we have a country that is not a member of NATO and the EU, but can use it for its own good." And now they're following things that aren't direct, but things that can be attached as some sort of argumentative thing to it. This is all under point 2 of the indictment, so I take it, or the second part of the statements in the Youth Week, number 39, of 26 September 2014. According to the President of the National Assembly, therefore, the SFRJ is a better type of country compared to the Republic of Slovenia in terms of credibility, heritage and recognition of the international community. However, the fact is that the SFRJ was a state without the inheritance of any nation in it or of that heritage; a country based on communist terror, systematic corruption; and a country that violated the national rights of all republics. All of this was tolerated by the international community only because of the circumstances of the Cold War. The SFRJ was a country in which, from the beginning, the government is a military Punta, whose military interventions also marked the end of the SFRJ in an attempt to preserve the power of the military and the Communist Party. The SFRY was a country in which human rights were undeniably violated, a totalitarian communist state, with a mistake of a country based on the communist revolution and which with its failed economic system has left the economic stagnation and debts that we are still paying today. The Communist Party also served as secret security services when maintaining its power in the SFRJ. I mean, the matter continues, continues with the association, one thought associates with the other, the third thing goes on, and in the end the matter is related to me. What do I have to do with this?Oh, my God! So far, they've always asked me how I feel about archives, how I feel about them. Now I'm asking, what do I have to do with the Communist Party? What do I have to do with the Udba? I think it's possible to connect these things. This is, of course, everyone's fault. This way of proving it is everyone’s fault in advance, it is not possible to prove it; now prove it is not your fault. That's, I'll say, witchcraft; I already said, inquisitorial way is such a way of proving where you can't prove you're not guilty. It falls under the general legal principle that whoever proves you guilty must prove you guilty. The opposite defends itself only by challenging the likelihood of such guilt. And all this cheering in, there really can't be anything. Then there's the Supreme Court, all these cases, but what does this have to do with my interview?Oh, my God! With praise in the international context, not in the internal one, as I have already said many times and it is very clear from this out. I agree that self-reliance, as it goes on to say, was a valuable breakthrough in the SFRY. And now, at this point, without mentioning one or the other document, you could continue. Thank you. What is most likely very important is that it is very important, at least for me, that my own country certainly could not have been a step back in terms of statehood. So, gaining your own country on the basis of self-determination – absolutely, that was something that was wanted. However, this has already been partly possible within the previous system, even the justification of this, with the 1974 Constitution, you know this. What you said earlier as a historical preamble is certainly a little more complex. Some things simply seem far too simple. And that is why this resolution on totalitarianism has in fact prevented historians from being judged to the end. So those who can get closer to some principles, let alone to the National Assembly or to anyone else, to judge these matters. [[Incomprehensible]] But instead of judging, of course, reconciliation is needed and we need to go through such systems. But the judgment itself, how right or wrong it is if you read these matters accurately — and of course I went to them then because I was curious about what was wrong with anyone in the previous references of the National Assembly. And I have seen that there, too, was probably an impossible debate on these matters, and there, too, more associations played their part than what was actually mentioned in the Council of Europe resolution and also in the European Union documents. What's my response to Srebrenica, genocide? I'm very careful with the expressions I use. For genocide in international law before 1948 we cannot legally speak, since then we have a definition – international law. In general, unfortunately, the situation of human rights is much worse internationally than we normally imagine. The breakthrough that World War II meant was the one that actually raised the issue of human rights at the international level. First, under the question of punishing the losers, namely, the absolute losers for war crimes, and later, of course, by developing what we know today as international criminal law, and before that, human rights. But it went very slowly there, too. In particular, it has been very slow for countries to recognise that someone in the international community is competent to look at internal affairs, but how countries treat their citizens. In any case, the situation was a little different back then, and I would not want to make things worse anyway. The legacy of ignorance is a specific story that made sense at the time. I'm not saying this, but this has been preserved as one, I'll say, position within the General Assembly that connects many countries, when they do, in the 1970s, for example, it had some international weight as a specific formation of countries that required some different economic regulation on a global scale and similar matters. [[…]] But all this because the force ratio between East and West has changed, they probably lost the weight they had before. What do I think of the archives? You're asking me about the archive referendum. First of all, the referendum on archives is older than I am as a politician. That's why I'm not even going to define myself until now, or I'm going to define myself when you prove to me that I have anything with the Communist Party and the Udba. Then I will go to all those contentious cases that have nothing to do with this procedure and these accusations that I have received. Then I'll answer any random question. There are some other things like this. What is the key difference between what we now have as a constitution and the previous constitution? Again, where one common value, or where we were able to unite, was the very situation of human rights. The position of human rights is at the forefront of our new constitution compared to the previous system. I certainly do not think that it is necessary for those who have cooperated in any way or have accepted these matters to explain matters substantially. But what's important is that this constitution is some kind of social consensus that was the broadest political design. In fact, you will find within it the interests of the entire political community of that time; even those that at first sight may not have been fully represented in the then Parliament or congregation. That's why I think it's a blow under the belt if anyone tells me I didn't internalize the constitutional ethos. With this emergence of the country, and also by explaining what it can and how it can do, precisely because it is a single country, by which it is in the international community, it is actually justified not only by my political development but by my professional development. As a result, such accusations are unwarranted. The integration of genocide in Srebrenica and the way Bosnia and Herzegovina went after those victims who were there, I think the situation here, at least in the modern international community, is much simpler. At that time, I was trying to tell you in a few sentences what the legal problem of the legal engagement of post-war beatings is. This is an ethical, political, historical issue that is absolutely clear. But if you know what criminal law says, then the matter must be clearly defined so that we can pursue someone for something. If you do not have the crime code in your criminal code, and the slightest criminal code must be applied, then there is simply no internal legal basis. We can assign this to the previous system, I don't mind; that's entirely possible. But we are talking about the positive that in the case of prosecution or the application of the right law we really need, but of course again for some While in the case of Srebrenica this situation is absolutely much clearer. [[…]] Here the matter is clearly set up, and in such a situation a person would absolutely stand for something like what they have done. In this case, what is a minimum civilisation standard is a decent burial, and in this regard it will be necessary to gather political will. For once we can only assert our political will, and we will see what these things will look like when we have to press a certain key. Or when the proposals are so far away that they are so justified or so coordinated that it will make sense to push the keys, because you know, at least older Members, that this kind of coordination takes its time and has some of its legality. And by no means do I speak as if the countries, this is Slovenia, do not need to. We need Slovenia if we're going to survive. We just need our country, we need it all the time. The question was just when will the right conditions be for it to be created. It had to all go away. Once it all came to an end, we were able to make our own choice, but now it is necessary to make it possible for Slovenia to make decisions on its own within this international community. I certainly do not think that today's debate on this kind of decision-making has helped so much, except perhaps there are some topics. Because, after all, now, what, six hours and twenty hours we are discussing my resolution, which, of course, I do not agree with. All these accusations you've attributed to me, I reject them. I say that Slovenia has and has built a position in the international community, but it has also wasted a lot of what it has promised with non-creditable behaviour in individual cases. Well, a country like Slovenia, if it wants to strengthen its position or if it wants to be an active factor in the international community, then it has to lead, at least in my opinion, a principled foreign policy stance. And what has been happening in these 25 years at many points, with a thorough analysis, you can prove something that didn't fully fit in. I cannot answer every single statement, especially from my colleague Breznik; what I have said or set out to say that I do not agree that I did not internalise this ethos – this has also been stated in some other accusations. What I did, however, is that I really studied most of this Nuremberg process because I was able to get what international law was supposed to say at the time. That is why, at least on this issue, I was once asked to give expertise; and I actively deepened into these things, to understand what the crimes were then, what was understood, what was the relation to war, what the completion of, what the relationship with my resident was, to the one covered. All these things are not as simple as they seem at first sight. In the international community and even less clear in international law, precisely because this is the law – at least some say or have always said that this is another branch of law, which is not as clear as anything else and all the criminal legal standards required for the protection of human rights – are sometimes inadequate. From many things that have been said, I have come to have two options. Or in a process like this, there is no way anyone will win; there is no fight to interpret this possibility. In the vote or anything else – yes, but there is no possibility in the fight for interpretation. And there is also no means to force someone else to do what they have to do and how they have to think about individual matters. I am certainly pleased that we will be able to find a common consensus on the point of human rights if we understand that they are not only universal because of Western civilization, but also indivisible and inseparable. And that their essence is truly man's dignity. But in the name of human dignity it is possible: A — to do very different things; and B — probably always needs to be taken into account both the historical and local context we speak of and the meaning of human dignity. This aspect, this experience with international space usually teaches me little, that in some cases it is necessary not to be an absolutist, but, above all, to look at these matters a little more valuable. And if these common values are those enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, I see no problem in participating in this National Assembly. Otherwise, it will be necessary to fight against practices that would go against such understanding. I certainly think that, not only with the indications, but actually with the statements from the interview, I rejected the basis on which an application was made for my discharge. If I didn't waste any extra time on you, I'd stop at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this conclusion given by the President of the National Assembly is, in fact, crucial to this debate that we have today. This is precisely the part where this controversy is being done, where there is controversy about the country that has violated human rights and about the country that gives something to human rights. The delimitation was 1991. If someone in this work says that in some state-of-the-art sense in a state-of-the-art country, if he says that they were better in a state-of-the-art sense before 1991, then it also implies that there was a general system, a general level of rights and other things, including human rights, better than in a modern country. This is how we can explain it, and you have also set things up in this case, now in this final explanation. You're talking about giving this a great deal of attention, but it's not true to these human rights. In practice, it does not. In this reference to the National Assembly, it does not. My colleague Irgle has convened several meetings in these two, three months, exclusively on the subject of human rights, cases of violations of the human rights of the former country, which you say do not hurt because you had nothing to do with it. Except you lived like I did back then, but you had nothing to do with this country's activity. Interestingly, the entire coalition obstructed the meeting of the National Assembly and ignored people who had been violated by human rights and who had come to the meeting to say so. You want to convince me that this is a policy you advocate and implement. Mr President, it's not that, you're not doing that. And this is a practical, practical reflection of you wanting to seduce the National Assembly and the people who listen to it in another direction with your comments. Your practice in this area does not confirm you. You can see, you boycotted at least three meetings of the National Assembly, and there were invited persons who had been violated human rights in the previous regime. You who boycott the Commission's petitions sessions did not break the previous regime, but you are covering it, legalising it. Mr Matić, who is your Member, has been extremely active in closing the archives of secret services. That's true. You can check it out, Mrs. Novakova, too. You see what we've got, you can't get to the material if you come, it's black. Those who have been violated human rights simply cannot do so. You can't even explore these things; so in this case it was a systematic boycott of access to secret service archives. As long as some celebrations take place somewhere in a location, okay, there was a celebration at the Stožice, the whole state summit was there, I don't know what; but when it comes to the National Assembly, when the President of the National Assembly begins to speak beautifully about the previous regime, that means something completely different. You speak for me, and for us, and for someone else, on behalf of those who were victims. I must say that with this magnification and with this very kind explanation of this situation, which was before 1991, I find it difficult to agree because the facts speak differently. Even before the conquest, just before the conquest, there were victims at the border shot in the back. And the President of the Supreme Court – he wasn't the one who was probably the last – but he was also going to legalize or as a judge for these examinations of the slain victims. We already have this built into the structure. We have the Chief of Public Prosecutions, who was involved in human rights violations as a prosecutor, now he's the Attorney General's Attorney-General. Someone who represents the top of the judiciary went to examine these post-war beatings as a judge and so on. And now it's gonna be hard for you to convince someone that it's not some sort of restoration of these things. We are likely to be affected by the very things both resolutions point to – both the removal of the consequences of totalitarianism and the 1096 in 1996. What's coming back is some velvet revolutionary return coming back at all times, and a new pyramid is being made, and it's practically undegradable. And if the president of the National Assembly does not want to see this — and apparently does not want to see it — then it is a sort of problem. I think it is right that all those who disagree with these steps are also reminded of these matters. In 1991, a break with the previous country took place, and other events in Europe took place elsewhere. But what you are really stressing and reviving is simply denying everything that has brought us independence and negating the reasons for independence. At that time it started in Slovenia, with Slovenia on its own, by systematically violating human rights in the previous country – and this is undeniable. If the previous country were so good, we wouldn't close the archives of the secret services of the previous country, put them on the altar and show everyone how good we were. But there's obviously so much burden on the subject of violations that it had to be easily closed and blocked. Mr President, I think that what we have proposed is justified by this proposal for a solution. You haven't responded to any of this with any convincing evidence, to any of it. And all those who think this action is just because I don't know what it is — it's not. This simply means whether we go ahead with the values of independence or not. Or we can continue to tolerate situations that are happening. The practical consequence of such an approach, such mentality, such thinking, such as this, is the political prisoner we have in our party. It's just a practical continuation of all this policy that you're defending and you're saying I don't know what it is. The previous country was not good, there was a lot of violations. I think there is no rational reason for those who have caused these violations because of their role in politics or in the structures of the country to be protected by closing the archives. However, Mr President, this stubborn insistence on some solutions is five or ten years for Bosnia only after the countries of Yugoslavia have fallen apart. [[Incomprehensible]] With regard to the treatment of victims, to pieta, to respect, to responsibility – we are at least 10 years for Bosnia. We can't be proud of that either. We were the most developed, spiritually and economically, former republic of Yugoslavia. We have now fallen behind Bosnia in this spiritual sense. If you don't see it, Mr. President, then God help this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik raised his hand first, but I don't know. Dr. Matić, you can't have a replica; you can do more procedurally because you haven't discussed it. Procedurally, please; just so it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u206	Mr. Chairman! I think that this is a grave forgery and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr Tanko is abusing his implementation in such a way as to involve in the request for the removal of the President of the National Assembly persons who are not directly involved in this and mentions my name in a totally inappropriate way. It lists a number of non-truths which I hope to continue in the debate, if there is any other possibility, that I will reject. Because, for the first time, it is not true that the SDV archives are closed, they are open – and everyone who was created before 1990, with the exception of sensitive personal data, knows this. And it's not true that I stood up for closing archives, it's a grave lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u207	It's gonna be real. It's gonna be a while. Mr. Franz Breznik, please. A replica or a procedural one? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I will only try to give the President of the National Assembly the end of his debate at least a few more views. [[advertising from the hall]] For the first time can I base my replica? [[…]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly. I must admit, your words were a little different today than they were in your interview. The words you just said when you somehow condemned the former totalitarian state, as I said before, surround me with optimism. But I believe that you will go from words to action to condemn everything that has to do with totalitarianism, especially in the last phase of crimes against humanity in the 1970s and 1980s; so-called "politicides", "culturecides", and that they will condemn all of this. To condemn the former members of the State Security Service, who are now in the judiciary, who are today editors of RTV Slovenia, who are now in state-owned companies and who are already in educational institutions. I believe that you are not only taking into account the European Parliament's resolution, but also taking into account the practice of the Strasbourg court, which made it clear a month ago in the famous caselaw that former members of the State Security Service of totalitarian countries have nothing to look for in public functions and are not affected by the Convention. And I believe that you will also consider these values, which you have just discussed in your debate, that you will engage them in your daily work and that you will connect this part of the fragmented countries and citizens. Believe me, this is what the state needs. He needs a credible personality in his second highest position in this country, and he needs a person who is aware of these functions. Therefore, I must admit that I want to continue my work in the National Assembly to observe you, to see whether you are behind these words that you have said today, that you may have come to the wrong understanding in this interview, as you have been giving today, to some lapsus, to the wrong understanding of us who called this meeting, and that you, as President of the National Assembly, will also be calling on your party's members, as well as all Members, Members, that you will be the people who have acted in the totalitarian regime who have committed crimes against humanity, when you have said today that you will condemn them and that you will call them to withdraw from public life. Since people who have committed mass violations of human rights, I believe they have nothing to look for in a democratic country in such positions. And I can say [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u209	Mr. Breznik, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u212	Respected [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] If you don't mind. [[…]] Before that, Mr President spoke about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u213	I'll just take this all the way, and then we'll talk about it. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The President of the National Assembly has now spoken of values. That's exactly what we talked about earlier, in my debate. And I was pleased to see these assurances of respect for the values that he has now given in a very long form. However, I hope that this will also be followed by actions. For I would remind you that it was exactly the same debate on values, respect for law, the rule of law and human rights when we discussed the withdrawal of the mandate of Ambassador Janez Janša. The result of the Constitutional Court judgment will be announced tomorrow. I have been, and I am confident that the mandate will be restored. And I have warned you that in this case this will turn out to be a conscious violation of human rights. Conscientious violation. And I'm asking you. In view of the values you are sworn to, will you, in this case, resign with everyone you have violated? And that once and for all, they would follow the action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Han. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u216	My procedure was placed just in front of Mr Grimes. I also wanted to check one thing with you, Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to Mr Breznik, if I understand correctly, you then gave him a reminder in accordance with Rules 76 and 77 of the Rules of Procedure. With his speech, which did not address the issue on the agenda, he often went to other areas — you gave him a reminder again. The next measure, which is appropriate or useful in accordance with this Rules of Procedure – and I think that for the third time you wanted to give him a reminder when you commented to him – is a withdrawal of the word. All I want to know is if I understood the first and second reminders correctly and they were from your side of the admonition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u217	Some of the debates today went slightly past, if I may say so, the darkness. Mr. Breznik was not the only one; but he was a little excessive for my taste. That is why I warned him at the end of the debate, but I did not stop him in this debate. Thank you very much. Time is something else, so after [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u218	Please, Vice President, if you can explain the form "slightly passed." I'd really like to know how you evaluate some quality to someone passing by. He went completely past, not slightly. [[advertising from the hall]] Let's stick to one of the rules of the game that we have in the Rules of Procedure, not now to learn something new. The clock doesn't even run properly, every one of you has a little bit of domestic advertising, as much as you want, it's a little bit of a puzzle with logic! It's time-sharing, and it's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u219	It's simply that you can't cut off every word by passing through the darkness of the day. That's not gonna convince me. And the clock is running exactly. Good. In accordance with Article 71; since we have not yet spent all our time, there is still a desire for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] Each debater has 3 minutes 17 seconds of time. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. What we are discussing today is not new. This is actually happening in all sessions. The same property of this party on this page is that whatever point is on the agenda, they always discuss one and the same. And it doesn't actually lead anywhere. I'm not going down to this level, and I'm going to end up doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Bojana Muršič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u222	Nice greeting today, too, on my behalf. I am sad and disappointed that today we have been discussing this subject for six hours. We're crazy at the end of the day. There are SMSes coming in, finally finish with this point, you've been dealing with this case all day. And please read this article as it is; read it with other eyes, and we will all be content. And that's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u224	Madam Vice President, I'm sorry. What happened to me doesn't happen to me often. They should even be concerned, both on my part and on the part of others who are in the hall. For in the end we made this debate a slightly mocking issue, when we speak of history, of the hours of history. Some took advantage of this opportunity and the opportunity to interpret what they thought in such a way and in a different way. I think we should think carefully, everyone should take a deep look at this subject that we are discussing today, and probably all that we or some individuals have said would not have done. I'm in my contribution, I've had twice the opportunity today, I've highlighted all the things about these things. I will say again, because I am not going to come back later, or because we have also shared an hour, the rest of the time that I will surround Mr Brglez in that cabin with the fact that Mr Brglez will continue to be President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you. I'm asking President Brglez if he wants a word now or at the end, before he says so?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u226	Before the motioner's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you. Then we move on; Dr. Dragan Matić has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u228	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Joze Tanko likes to speak the untruths, and when he repeats them, he thinks they'll just become the truth. The SDV archives are open, all of which were created before 1990; except for sensitive personal data. Anyone who wants to see sensitive personal data also has two options – he can address the request to the archival commission chaired by Mrs Valič Zver, who is a supporter or official of this party on the left; and she boasts that she has not yet given up this desire. Or he can ask for anonymized data that they then show with great pleasure, photocopies of these documents, our colleagues from SDS. As to who closed the SDV archives, however, it is notorious that they were closed on the basis of an agreement between the Director of Sova Rupnik, who was named Janez Janša, because it was during his government, and the Director of the Slovenian Archives Kosher. And with this agreement, the SDV archives were closed until 2044. The non-professional agreement between the two directors was based on the regulation of the government of Janez Janša, prepared by Lovra Šturm and signed by Janez Janša. It should also be noted that this regulation was contrary to the law which they themselves proposed and adopted in Parliament when they had the majority in it. So much for the facts that there will be no misunderstandings about it. Mr. Tanko said they can do things in the SDS. Today, the witch hunt target was the president of the National Assembly, and years ago it was the president of the Republic of Dr. Türk. At that time, fraud, even counterfeiting archival material, was used to discredit the president of the SDS. From several documents they then glued one, and this falsification was presented to the public, and in this way they wanted to convince the public that Dr. Türk was involved in the affair of Velivec. And then this low-level scam crashed and resulted in an affair. They know how to do things, but sometimes they get some kind of accident. And today my gentlemen from the SDS were very fond and very much talking about the totalitarian system and what was going on at the time. I tell you that not 100 meters from here is John Cankar's High School, where Mr Janez Janša taught me defence and protection a little over 20 years ago – and he was then a Communist apostle. He defended the totalitarian regime and to us, who at the time as high school students mocked this regime, certainly did not allow sympathy, but was very angry and very determined in his performances when he explained to us how to defend the traditions of NOB, defend the system of social self-protection and the SLO. At the time, he was in some other position and never apologized for poisoning the youth with the communist ideas he was spreading at the time; at least I had never heard of it. Just so much in the illustration, let me take a look at it with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thanks again for the word. I promise I won't go beyond our mandate. When I listened to the President of the National Assembly today, I got the answers to a number of questions. Now I find that there must have been a mistake in Youth, in response. Dear colleagues and colleagues on my right, I also appreciate your respect for and protection of your President of the National Assembly. May I remind you, however, when you unduly took away my or our President's mandate. In one word, one of you may not have spoken, but there may be a mistake in some article. It's not in one article, your friendly smile of all. Today we have said many words positively about the President, we have focused on just one mistake that occurred in an interview in Youth. That is why I ask you, and I call when we will meet again in the future at points that are important for all of us and which must be united, so that we can also see a little left and right. When it comes to your member, we say everything wrong, we move around, we don't know what we're doing; but when it comes to our man, he has been wronged in this national assembly, but only friendly smiles. I have even heard from the head of the Alliance's Group, Alenka Bratušek, to leave this National Assembly as soon as possible. I sincerely hope he'll be sitting on my right-hand side soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u232	Good evening from my side. In fact, today this odyssey, which we are leading, is taking only one direction. The fact is, we have a client who knows how to fight every issue very well, who knows how to reverse the data, who can do a lot of things, because they're old cats, they'd say that. But to really want to lead some constructive policy in some direction to really do something good, this donkey is going very hard on the hands. The fact is, we're always talking about the same things. We always talk about such things as articles in the Youth; or if we start with any other commissions, meetings and committees, there are always some things that are negative; something is always being looked for that is bad. There must always be some kind of destruction because otherwise you cannot be satisfied. I'm very sorry, but we would all like to tell you here together, and probably also the people who are watching us try to focus once on one future. In one future that could be good for all of us; without dragging each other around here for words, what someone said, what someone said, why it wasn't, and how it would be. Let's be, please, at least so constructive that we really show people that we came here to really do something good. I think that's the sense and the call and you and us to actually do something; not to start looking at some articles, what someone has expressed, what someone has said, what has been on the magnetograms and what has been done on the commissions. Then we repeat ourselves in these sessions and we are totally unproductive. It's been eight and a half hours, and we're talking about one thing and the same thing here, we're stuck in this congregation, and we're looking at each other, and we don't understand what we're saying. I don't really understand these things. We're talking about a previous system that I don't know how totalitarian, I don't know what. Now let's leave what was, and let's keep looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I personally believe that no one can and cannot sit in the Slovenian Parliament – no Member and Member – who is unaware that it is the key and most important Republic of Slovenia, its Constitution and all that is involved. And all those who do not realize it and do not understand it in this House have nothing to look for, have nothing to look for. This Parliament is Slovenia, it speaks Slovenian, here it advocates Slovenian people and all those who live in Slovenia, including minorities who live in Slovenia. And this is the only merciless thing for this country is the Republic of Slovenia. And I am sure – and I am absolutely convinced that people cannot sit in this Slovenian Parliament who do not understand this. Even less so, they are in the most important and crucial positions in this country. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, will you, tomorrow, when the well-known decision of the Constitutional Court to return to the Slovenian Parliament, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who was unlawfully deprived of his mandate, resign? And of all those who voted in favour of such a decision – the Constitutional Court, if it denies that the decision you have taken is illegal – I expect you to step down uncompromisingly. This will prove to the Slovenian people your dignity and responsibility towards the Slovenian people and those who voted for you in the elections. However, they voted that you will defend legally and responsibly, legally and anything that our Constitution claims for this country so that people in this country can live in accordance with the Constitution. That is why I expect, in this House today, at least of you, Mr President, to make this clear. Will you resign tomorrow if this happens because you acted unlawfully and unconstitutionally; as the first man of the Slovenian Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u236	Today we have a debate on the so-called distrust of the President of the National Assembly. In this paper, which the SDS has provided us as a basis for matter and discussion, I have not identified any specific special questions to the President of the National Assembly, how he will decide if and what he will and will not know what else. I apologize, Vice-President, I think it is right that such a discussion should be stopped. Here's where my friend Pojbič's stashed us, and he's asking us a few questions. Wait at least 12 hours to open this subject. Let's finish this first part that you designed. You're gonna talk a lot more, okay? And you, Vice President, please stop this discussion, because that is no longer appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u237	Thank you. I agree to continue this subject. Do you want procedural? There's no replica on the replica here. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u238	Madam President, thank you for your word. First of all, only two statistical comments, first of all to the previous chairman, that time is running properly but in the wrong way. That's what Jani was gonna say. Mr Tanku – Mr Tanko has expressed sincere concern for the Slovenian budget and public finances, and at this point he would only remind citizens that the archival referendum, which was badly needed, cost this country 3.5 million euros. And you're asking who's going to pay 70,000 euros for what? And I'm asking you, who's going to pay 3.5 million for a referendum that wasn't needed, like my colleague Dragan said before?Oh, my God! I understand how to say your legitimate pain when you lost power. The election results were not good for you, and in your anger you have broken the pillars of power, you are dealing with the past, you are unconstructive at the meetings of the National Assembly and so on. But that's your choice. Mr Pojbič said that there should be no such and such Members in Parliament. I do not think that there should be such Members sitting in Parliament who put on the agenda topics that are biased, non-state-making, based on the reversal of statements, the removal of content from the context, in short the content to which we have been witnessing all day. Now I'm going to be a little grave, but let's face it – your time is up. [[advertising from the hall]] That's not how it works. In the final stage, the voters showed you this in the last election. The SDS has 5 fewer Members than it had in its previous term; the SMC has 36 more. SMC has 36 right now, and you have 20 plus one plate right now. And I understand your anger. But why are we really wasting our time on such unnecessary debates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u239	I'm asking all debaters to stick to the subject, please. Procedurally. Three of them wanted to. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I would only ask you to warn the Member of Parliament the next time he tells a lie. 3.5 million euros did not go to the referendum because of us, because of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You probably did not follow the policy at the time, Mr Zorman, but the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed that the referendum be held at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament. That would have cost us about a million 300. We wanted to save $2 million. However, if the coalition then voted against and lost 2 million 200, the Slovenian Democratic Party is not to blame. Please stop such lies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u241	Thank you. I've warned you, I'm warning you again, please, let's stick to the rules of procedure and the subject. Did you want procedural? There is no such thing as the rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there's no replica. Mrs. Margareta Guček Zakošek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u242	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I called because I was mentioned many times in the debates. This actually makes me very happy because it means that I've been heard; I don't know if I understand, but I hope I do. Because I said to separate us by connecting, by calming the contradictions and by creating a positive atmosphere, I would like to give you at least a few points that I see positive today. And I think it's the same. I thank you for this lesson of law that I received today again, naturally, positively, internationally, and that I could listen to Dr. Brglez here today. There's only one thing I've found that he was and will be a great professor, a lecturer and one who can explain his views in his own words. Therefore, I have no doubt that he has made them very clear to my colleagues today and in some ways reassured them that this may not have been as justified today as they thought, but that we are on a common path. Secondly, I've heard all the views of the dark chapter of our history, but I think there was light, at least for some of us. As a positive person of my childhood, I do not accept the negative, and my parents raised me well, and in good faith my history will certainly remain in my good memory; but I respect all discipline. And thirdly, I am glad that dialogue has developed; perhaps by chance or not, Mr Tanko and Dr Brglez were actually very close to each other. When I watched them like that, it actually looked very positive. And also what you might have done outside this hall, or as far as I know, Dr. Brglez opened this door. However, I have been born with the hope that in the next steps we will act differently, more directly, and that the contradictions that we want to resolve among ourselves may go beyond in any other way; not here in the hourly and hourly debates. Looks like we've come a little closer to each other. This is positive for me, and yet let us look into our eyes and say that some views are similar and that we are not that far from each other. Once again, I thank you for this opportunity, for all I have heard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. I wasn't going to call, but I think it's right to support Dr. Brglez himself, who I didn't know before he became president of the National Assembly or a member of the National Assembly here. He wasn't my professor, and I have to say I really appreciate him. On the basis of today's discussion, if I hadn't read the interview he gave me, I would have been deeply concerned about what kind of president of the National Assembly we have, what kind of advocate, what kind of human rights violator we have. It is amazing what came out of that interview this afternoon, from the converted words and subtitles that followed them, there was a painting that I do not know what it is for. I don't think he's among us here in the National Assembly, who would believe that today the president will also be relieved of this interview. The question is why and why is this performance actually serving this afternoon. Perhaps the reasons are very different from in the protection of human rights itself, and it is also likely that it is a late hour for me to discuss these reasons today. I hope that Dr. Brglez will successfully continue his work to be a successful president by the end of this term of office. Of course he gets my vote, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you. When I read the interview with Mr Brglez published in Mladina on 26 September today, and all day long I have been listening to all this, I am afraid that this is a medical issue rather than a political problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u247	Thank you. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u248	Thank you. What I would like to say in the end is that the SDS Group in the whole process today — I think it is clear — has not proved that I have underestimated Slovenian independence and country-building, nor have I disrespected the dignity of those who voted in favour of the independent, independent Republic of Slovenia on the plebiscite, otherwise it could have been logical to carry out that I was demeaning myself, demeaning the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia, even less so as I have been proven to be an association with the Communist Party and the secret security services – they have not tried to prove it, so that this point does not hold. I think it is clear from the debate that I did not justify post-war beatings, certainly it was not my intention to justify post-war beatings. Finally, I am not in favour of totalitarian methods and defending the ideas of the revolution, so this is what is relevant to this debate. However, to me very much, let's say that I take this as a mistake, the very conclusion of this proposal is the next sentence, and I quote, and I hope you will understand what the problem is. "In the introduction, the role of competence was explained and thus the responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly as a representative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the legislative body of Members and Members, who are representatives of all the people in their work." These two things can be read very differently. One is that it is not the legislative body of the people, but that the legislative body is only individual Members and Members. The question is, at what point does a person get to interpret things? I'm going to volunteer them, but sometimes it's up to the others to look at their own formulations, for some reason, because they can already change their meanings. But that's not what I think today was about. Today's procedure was because of this – and this is my political assessment – because the SDS Group cannot submit its own requests or requests for an extraordinary session of Parliament, which it would immediately do if there were at least two more Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u249	With regard to the application of the Rules of Procedure, would you like to proceed procedurally? Please, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u250	In some cases, the Rules of Procedure exceptionally allow double time. I suggest that you make such an exception meaningful today, and that you give Dr. Brglez, President of the National Assembly, another 5 minutes. Let me explain why. I asked the question earlier, and Mr Pojbič repeated it after me. Today, Mr Brglez has kept talking about values, respect for values, the Constitution, human rights and the rule of law and has ensured that he is consistent in this, in accordance with words and actions. Tomorrow, a judgment will be delivered in the case of the removal of the mandate of Janez Janša. At that time we talked about exactly the same values, exactly the same topics, with exactly the same words. I have presented to you the constitutional practice of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court's judgments and several cases of European Court of Human Rights judgments. That is to say, I have warned you that the withdrawal of the mandate due to these circumstances is not a legal dilemma that would allow for a free assessment of the error; but that it is something that has already been repeatedly judged and that if you do so, you will experience your moment of truth sooner or later or at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia or at the European Court of Human Rights. I also warned you at the time that if you are consistent in your words, when you have spoken so much about ethics, you must also respect values, then you will all draw the consistency and together retreat, at the head with the first of the same ones — Dr. Brglez. And for this reason, I propose that he be given these additional five minutes and that he answer whether he will respect the word he has already given publicly. And in the event that tomorrow, when the official declaration of the Constitutional Court's judgment is declared and Janez Janša is returned, I have no doubt, he also actually resigned. At the same time, I express my expectation that all of you will demonstrate by action that, at the time and today, in ensuring respect for ethics, morality, human integrity and human values and the Slovenian Constitution are consistent; and all of you have resigned together.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u251	Thank you. I suggest we stick to the topic on the agenda today. I suggest that the representative of the proposer speak further. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, one or two words, two sentences about what Mr Matić opened and accused us of falsifying. Don't hold it. There were two documents, both of them from the archives, and they're both standing there. But it's true that they were rejoined for the first time. But the papers stand. Like singing your birth certificate and your graduation certificate, they're both yours and they're related to you and they're authentic. And second of all, I'm worried about your nervousness when you were talking about archives. I am very concerned that you must have some particular reason to defend what you have adopted by law, which has also made archival materials of former secret services more accessible. I don't know what's burdening you, or in a narrower or wider sense, but it's amazing that you've raised yourself to be so oblivious. After all, you will probably be appointed to that expert advisory group of the Government for Unesco, which also deals with such and other historical matters. I think that this role you're going to get there tomorrow is completely incompatible with what you were defending when it came to archival material. Otherwise, it seems to me that we have made a good argument about everything that is related to the settlement proposal. We have relied on the facts that have been publicly expressed, and the statements made by the President of the National Assembly stand because they are written down. No one has said that they do not hold, they do not give rise to a positive approach or a positive view of the former country which has systematically violated human rights in this regard; and denying the acquisition of a independent Slovenia. By commending the old country, he denied what we received in this country. And I'm actually sorry that we have to vote today. I think tomorrow will be an excellent opportunity if it holds what some media have previously been for self-evaluation; also for the realisation of what has been said in public. [[Incomprehensible]] This is said to result in some concessions if John Janša is refunded. The president of the National Assembly was already the one who made this public. However, the problem is that the decision will be based on human rights violations if it is based on what it says in the media today. That we're aware of what we're talking about. If the decision is to give John Janša back his mandate, it will be argued that human rights have been violated. No wonder he's so angry and so arrogant when you're defending something that's been happening in the past. It's practically one-on-one, because you can't hide it anymore. I will support the proposal to dismiss the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u253	Thank you. There's no replica here. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the discharge of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. This is Dr. Mitja Horvat, mag. Bojana Muršič, Matjaž Hanžek and Ludmila Novak. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal for the composition of this commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall be served with a message to Members and Members by each Member coming to the table of the President and giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be dismissed if the majority of all Members vote in favour of discharge, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 21.10 and will last until 21.25. After the vote, I ask Members to assist me in voting to meet again in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the meeting and move on to the hearing of the suspended 16th item, this is on the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez. Voting was held in the Houses of the National Assembly, 20. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 72 votes were valid. There were 15 votes in favour, 57 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 57.]] As the majority of all Members did not vote in favour of resolution, Dr Milan Brglez was not relieved of his office as President of the National Assembly on the basis of the outcome of the vote. / applause/ I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda and interrupt the 2nd meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
