ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mrs Janja Attack, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Franz Bogovic, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Srečko Meh. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the 21st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Right now, I'm asking for your attention in the hall. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to remind you before the session that the international community today remembers the victims of the Holocaust. On 1 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution setting for the International Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January. As a result, on 14 February 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision declaring it a national Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January. Thus, since 2009, the National Assembly has been dedicated to the victims of World War II on this Memorial Day. To this end, in the National Assembly, we host a photographic documentary exhibition by the Last Witnesses, memories of the internationalists of Italian fascist camps. We also opened the exhibition in the lobby of the big hall this morning, with some other living interns present, and it will be open until 8 February. The International Holocaust Memorial Day is undoubtedly an opportunity for tens of thousands of Slovenians to be interned in the tragedies of World War II. The exhibition, which shows the rare still living interns who were sent into this interior from the then Ljubljana province, presents a gift to victims of fascist camps and allows for insight into the life stories of individuals, which are also the stories of all mankind. Thank you for your attention. We are moving on to the agenda for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 17 January 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single agenda item or proposals for an extension of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. At its 74th meeting, on 6 December 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft Law amending the Law on State Administration, EPA 1635 VI. it is subject to an emergency procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are therefore going to consider the requirement that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the draft Law amending the Law on State Administration, EPA 1635 VI, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. The government is now proposing to transfer from the Ministry of Economy to the government service framework a sector dealing with cohesion policy. We believe that there is no special need for this, especially not that such a change is being done on an urgent basis. First of all, the Ministry of the Economy should be completed, for two months now there is no minister to deal with this area, and, on the other hand, it is also true that it is extremely bad to draw on European cohesion funds. The government adopted a budget rebalancing, the National Assembly approved it this year, and there the President of the Government said that the budget rebalancing was finally on a realistic basis. However, in the area of cohesion policy, the government has received less than half of the planned rebalancing. So it's actually ineffective work. The government is now trying to further put an end to these additional administrative changes within the redistribution of the cores of the matter. Otherwise, there is no explanation for this. Instead of setting up a responsible team there to give the minister the opportunity to make changes in the structure of the ministry, if matters do not work, human rights change or provide in other areas, if there is no appropriate consensus, particularly in the field of environment, change and ensure the implementation of the work, he is now dealing only with this change in the reorganisation, where there will be a service. No substantive changes. We are a month before planning, opening a new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020 and instead of working on the preparation of operational programmes for cohesion regions, we are dealing with the structural problems of the government, where a service will be located. The big question is what will remain of the Ministry of Economy in the first place. Apart from what public calls for the subsidisation of development projects and the allocation of these funds, the selected ones are, in fact, almost nothing else. Almost nothing else. And it is likely that this mucking with the human resources completion of individual government departments is linked primarily to how certain things will be transferred to a certain area. The efficiency of the work is not a reflection of this coalition and of this government, otherwise there would not be such a bad estimate with the budget rebalancing, cash flow, the projected inflow of funds into the state budget. There's less than half of it. And with these changes that the government is proposing, these things will only stop. It will now be important to know where a stamp will be written, more than content, more than the realisation of the project. As a result, we do not support these changes in the law by means of a rapid procedure. For the first time, that's no reason. Second, it will not bring about any substantive change. Things will be done by the same people, in the same way, only the brand will be replaced and there will be no effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on State Administration shall be dealt with in an urgent manner. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, consider that proposal for a law in accordance with the urgency procedure on Tuesday 4 February 2014. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting should set a specific agenda, as you have received by reference, and an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 21st meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving to 22. At the time of the day, this is in line with the request of the Group of Members and Members to take a decision on the decision of the College of President of the State to propose a law amending the Law on the Rights of the President of the State and supplementing the Law on the Rights of the President of the General Assembly by means of a summary procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 28th meeting on 10 January 2014 that the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, EPA 1676 VI, submitted to the Assembly for consideration by the Government, should be considered following a reduced procedure. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of twenty-six Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants to request Mr Jožet Tank to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. What has been happening with the amendment of the forest law for the past six months is certainly no one's pride, but at the very least to the proposer – the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia will be the only country within the European Union where the State authority will issue for part of the transport of a wood-cut transport undertaking in the forest. Slovenia will be the only country that will not have this uniformly regulated. And there are one rules for private persons, private forests and other rules for those who perform concession services in state forests. We wonder what it is necessary for the Government to propose solutions that are so irregular, inconsistent and that are a system of double rules. Nowhere, not in the previous proposal of the law, nor in this, is it explained why this double arrangement is necessary. Last but not least, the person who, as a private person, will be cutting in his own forest and who will also be carrying out transport will have to pay for this document to the state authority. It is said that the Institute of Forests will issue a document and will count to that person, while the concessionaires will not have this cost, nor is the document. The other thing that is extremely problematic in this law and represents one additional great stupidity of this law is that, for example, the forest owner who will be allowed 60, 70 cubic meters of wood for his own use will be able to build a larger economic or agricultural facility, alone from his forest, to drive only 6 cubic meters of cold at once. Nonsense without a case! This forest owner is not allowed to organize himself in a suitable way, that is to say that he would take it away by three trucks, but he will have to drive six cubic metres at the most at once. Why such restrictions in the forest law if we had previously given him permission to cut wood and use wood for our own purposes? The system is similar to it used to be in agricultural history, when, for example, our farmers were not able to buy the most modern agricultural equipment, but they could only buy used agricultural machinery in Austria or Italy. And this concept is similar. He's driven by economic logic. It is not allowed to the owner of the forest to organise itself more cost-effectively, but it is suggested that it can only be done in such a way that instead of three trucks it will have to do up to six, seven driving or ten driving times six cubic metres. But the next problem with this law is punishment. It is not normal for the forest law to have penalties for an offence, for example if someone has a carrier, but will accidentally forget it, will not have it with him, and will receive an inspection, will pay a greater penalty than for the worst error in the banking system. That's amazing. And we wonder why it is right against small people, against small farmers, to be registered in the law of so lifeless, abnormal punishment, where punishment will be up to ten times or, in some cases, even a hundred times higher than the value of the goods transported. Maybe he just forgot the document at home that he had. It is not the fight against the grey economy, it is not the fight against the places in the field of forestry, but it is something else. In fact, this is a concept that approaches the destruction of a small part of the population that deals with the exploitation of forests and the care of forests. We will not support this procedure. I'm sure you don't. And the big problem is that last month you rejected our proposal, which was significantly better in the case of systematicity, this is true of the uniformity of regulation, it brought substantially smaller penalties, including structured ones, and now we have a proposal on the table that goes blindly along the line of coalition power ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you. Let me remind you that there is no debate and no explanation for this request, so we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests shall be examined in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, I therefore ask that you pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked questions may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question put by the Member, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the assembly. Regarding this point, Dr. Uroš Chufer, Minister of Finance, and Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities apologized for today. A review of the questions referred to by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit, has been published on the E-club. At this point, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. And the first question will be asked by the mag. Andrej Vizjak, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Minister and Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Recently, distinguished Prime Minister, you have presented information and boasted about how you manage unemployment in this Parliament, how the number of unemployed is lower than when you took power. Today, the numbers, not one year after that, are also sad because of the seasonal movements that you forgot to mention in this praise. Ladies and gentlemen, 129 thousand 900 and a few other unemployed are currently in the Employment Service. 32 thousand 500 young people, according to the age group between 15 and 29 years of age. Compared to annual trends on average, in 2013 about 8% were more unemployed than in 2012. These are frightening, worrying numbers, because these people don't have money, they don't have a perspective, they don't have a future. And it really hurts if they are young, educated, and those who have done everything so far to be able to provide themselves with bread and their future. Active employment policy and money-sharing measures for these and those purposes do not depend. There are no jobs, Your Honor. There is no economic start-up and there is no need for young people to have a place to work. If we look at the government's actions in the last year, it's not surprising. In fact, the economic policy of this government has made it more difficult for economic operators to operate. Both bureaucraticly and financially. You have raised taxes, raised VAT, property tax, corporate income tax will not be reduced as it should be, an income law where you have prevented further coordination of the income scale and inflation relief. Your Honor, you don't have an economic minister. Some of the measures taken to rehabilitate the banking system went in the right direction to inherit them, and there is no continuation. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President of the Government: When will we and what will be the measures taken by this government to launch and create new jobs? These measures, such a programme must be concrete, must also be targeted, time-bound and financially valued. Dear Prime Minister: When will the light of the world see such a program, and when will we receive a minister of the economy at all?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much and thank you very much. Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter. However, I think it is right and fair to admit that Slovenia has lost a good part of the trust of foreign markets, international institutions and absolutely this has proved to be in the grip of Slovenian bonds, which in the last few years of your Janša government have reached a dizzying value. We have succeeded in taking measures that we have also actually carried out and not only promised, partly to restore confidence in our country, and after a long time, the profitability of our bonds is well below 5%, and 4.6 is the interest rate. As far as unemployment is concerned, I think it is right, honourable Member, to look at really specific numbers. In February 2012, when you took over the government, about 115 thousand people were unemployed. When you left, it means that when you made room for another government, there were 124 thousand 66 people unemployed or 9 thousand 33 more than when you took over the government and you were the Minister of Labour. 7.8% more than when you took over the government. In December 2013, 124 thousand people were unemployed 15 or 51 less than when we took over the government. I don't have daily information from the employment office, obviously you have better connections at the office than the Prime Minister. The last official information is 124 thousand 15. Absolutely too much, I agree with you. For every unemployed person, I'm sorry he's unemployed. In my opinion, the right to work is the fundamental human right that should be guaranteed to everyone, but the country unfortunately does not create jobs. Taking into account your policy of recruiting or reducing the number of unemployed in the state administration, unemployment would be increased by about 16,000 because you wished that unemployment in the public administration would be reduced by 10%. As for the measures, I will begin with what has already been done. Absolutely our priority was to stabilise the banking system or financial system, if you want. True, this is where we started or continued our journey with the measures that you have outlined, because there simply was no time for major changes. Even today, I am convinced that we could find a different way, and we had to continue this course because of the time of distress. I have already mentioned that the interest rates on our state bonds have fallen sharply, and I believe that further measures will further increase them. Another measure, which is already legally supported, is corporate deleveraging. We have spent a lot of time coordinating this important law, in fact something very new for Slovenia, so it took longer than we wanted, but it is our job to keep this law fully alive this year and to allow it to remain healthy in businesses. Absolutely not saving owners but jobs in companies. Our third objective is to increase the share of foreign direct investment. You won't believe it when I talk to those who intend to invest in our country, away from the fact that the tax burden is the biggest problem in our country. That's what they tell me. There are absolutely administrative obstacles. And as far as young people are concerned, yes, the biggest problem and also the most attention we need to pay to young people below. But, Mr Vizjak, we have passed the law, we have released the companies paying the contributions, and I believe that you still remember that you were one of the major opponents of this law. More than that, I believe, in addition to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. Master Andrej Vizjak has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Your Honor, I didn't get any answers. I asked the distinguished Prime Minister when we could expect a programme of concrete measures for economic start-up, for jobs. Not one deal in this direction. I got the answer and the surrender and the accusation of what happened in the past. I got an answer about what was done so far. What's the deal? Nothing. If what you, your esteemed prime minister, had been listed, had been captured, today would not have been 129 thousand 922 unemployed. 35,000 200 young unemployed. If that worked, if that were enough — it wasn't. That's why I'm seriously asking the respectable Prime Minister: What are you going to do? And you didn't even tell me where the minister was. Are you planning on keeping this facility at all? Look, it's an extremely important issue. No guarantee for young people, no programme of active employment policy, no amendment of legislation to exempt contributions is dependent if there is no job. If there is no job to hire a young person, no active policy will help you. And I'm asking you about the measures for economic start-up. Last but not least, the coalition is extremely “declared” when we are talking about privatisation. Minister Pikalo is talking about how Telekom should be divided into business and infrastructure and sold. I don't think that's how you're gonna do it with messages like that. You said you had positive signals about foreign direct investment. They're always at the political level of beauty. How much is the reference to the valuable foreign direct investment and how much sooner is it to run from Slovenia? That is why, Prime Minister, I expect an answer to my question, which I have asked first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already developed a single document to ensure a better regulatory and business environment and to increase competitiveness, covering more than 300 concrete measures in 16 different areas. The document also includes economic proposals, from agenda 46 plus, small economy agendas, requirements of Slovenian crafts and initiatives of the Chamber of Commerce. I believe, but if you don't, you haven't been able to see this document yet, but I'll be happy to present it to you. Also with European funds, we absolutely want to help our economy, and Mr Vizjak, I believe that you too will be happy to know that we have absorbed the most cohesion funds this year. 15% more than ever. And that is certainly the reason why our construction sector is being strengthened. We're still far below where we've been, but the growth over these months has been significant. Secondly, I am also sure that you know that, despite the difficult financial situation, we have managed to provide an additional EUR 500 million available to the Slovenian economy, via the Bank's SID, also for turnover capital. And once again, the project that seems very important to me and is, in my opinion, crucial that we ensure that our economy works as it did years ago, is the extension of businesses, but unfortunately, Mr. Vizjak, this cannot be done overnight and I believe that you, who were the Minister of Economy for four years, know that the effects of such things are not known overnight. The official data on the number of unemployed are the ones I said at the beginning, you can manipulate others, we'll wait until the end of the month, then there's new official data. Maybe it's just young people. There are absolutely priorities, we are absolutely aware of these problems, so we have adopted a law that exempts employers from paying contributions, 16% less should be paid for a young worker than at the time you were the Minister of Labour. I don't think that's too much. In addition, we have managed to obtain additional funding under the Youth Guarantee programme. But I agree with you that as long as things are just on paper, there will be no effects, but you can believe that we are working hard to make the results [[…]] [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, presidents for your answers. The request for a discussion on the answer shall be made by a mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Dear President, yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a discussion on this answer or non-answer, because there were simply no answers to some questions. For example, when will we get the responsibility for this area and what are these concrete measures for economic growth and jobs? While we have received information on official documents when we are talking about a programme of competitiveness, the programme for new jobs is much more important. The PM also listed some programs that simply do not work. This law does not work, this reform of the insolvency law, which is supposed to result in some voluntary restructuring, financial restructuring. And also some coalition Members who are at home in this area, in particular Mr Starman, do not believe in any effect of these provisions. It's a dead letter on paper like nothing you've ever made. Similarly, you mention, Prime Minister-respected, an invitation to tender for EUR 500 million, which simply cannot be pumped because conditions are too demanding for pumping, and there are some 10 million just exhausted from this bulky sum. What do I have to tell you? I want to tell you that the measures you are taking do not work and are 10 times ignored by the measures you are taking, such as the new tax and administrative burdens of the Slovenian economy. I strongly advise you to talk more to the economists and to accept their proposals without your coalition Members evaluating their proposals as ministro, wet dreams or anything like that. This is a denial of economic associations. And a guarantee for the young. This is a measure, it's one pebble in the mosaic that some young people would get a job if of course there was a job, but you're late for this program. So respectable Prime Minister, I will not, and I do not want to be so harsh and aggressive, I want to be constructive, I want to suggest and tell you that these are the priorities that must be first in Slovenia today. And not to accuse you of any information. I have to even blame you for not knowing the current data. Every Monday, the Employment Office publishes the latest data on the number of unemployed. Today it's 129 thousand 922. It's registered unemployment, it's public data, and you don't know it, and you talk to one month old data. This is also a symptomatic way of misunderstanding and not engaging in this important area. So, Prime Minister, I hope that the public debate will take a step forward towards at least one area where I think we all share expectations and, finally, our first priority is economic start-up and new jobs, especially for young people, we can come up with a common decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. The second question will be raised by Mr Franz Pukšič, Slovenian People's Party, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, Madam President of the Government, ministers, President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues The fact is that the Bank Management Company is 100 percent state-owned, I'm just going to talk about the so-called bad bank, because we all understand what this is about. Recently, the bad bank was recapitalised with EUR 200 million in tax money. And the fact is that the bad bank is committed to publishing information of a public nature. Slovenian media, Madam President, report on the concealment of the salaries of the leaders in the bad bank, the halting of the sale of apartments, the Court of Celov, and the worst part is when they also report catastrophic information on the reprogramming of managers' credits. This is those who, through the political ties of the houses, received loans for the acquisition of Slovenian companies, exhausted them and are now being reprogrammed. They are most receptive at the moment, so the Finances report, Rigelnik, Petan and the question of what else will come into play. And the process of privatising the companies you promised, apparently, has stalled. We understand that you can't publish all the data, the thousands that are in the credit cards. However, in the Slovenian People's Party we expect and need the Slovenian public, Madam President, to disclose immediately and now two data: the share of companies and their value, which went to a bad bank. People will pay for this rehabilitation out of their pockets, so they have a right to know. We therefore expect from you in the Slovenian public to immediately ensure the public publication of companies and the value of transfers to a bad bank. Madam President, my question is: Do you uncompromisingly support the publication of these and other similar claims? And the second question: How can you ensure to the Slovenian public today that the Bank Claims Management Company will not soon become a company for the resolution of imported tycoon projects and their political bots?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you. Dear Member, let me begin with yes. I absolutely support the public on two conditions. The publication of such data shall not prejudice the investigations of economic crime already under way or to be carried out in these banks. And second. They must not lower the price of assets on this management company or, as you called it, bad banks. But let me get this straight to the bottom of this, even though you're saying it's barfing, but it's a fact. The Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks has been adopted by the previous coalition. We're working on it. I said before, unfortunately we didn't have time for different, perhaps more weighed, decisions. Four of the three non-executive directors in this bank were appointed by the previous government or by the previous coalition. Of course, all of this does not mean that they can do anything else than the law binds them to. I should therefore like to point out immediately that the Government is absolutely committed to full transparency with regard to the measures taken to the extent that it does not jeopardise the operation of this company and thereby repays the taxpayers' investment. As you probably know, we presented the results of the burden tests in the banking sector as transparent as possible, and we intend to ensure the same in the case of the Bank's Claims Management Company after the legal restrictions have been lifted. I am sure that you know that I think that on 21 January the coalition tabled amendments, additions to the Public Information Access Act, which will enable the publication of the data, is a contract for concluded transactions – the type, value and date of business, the borrower, the lender. From the decisions of the authority responsible for granting the transaction, the authority which approves the transaction and the composition of the bank's management and supervisory board at the time of granting the loan, and from the evidence of the insurance, type and subject matter. I believe that this law can also be supported by members of the opposition. And once again, I am absolutely in person for total transparency, but I want both of the conditions that I have said before should be met. The publication of data must in no way harm investigations already taking place in banks or will continue to take place and must by no means reduce the price of assets on a management company or a bad bank. I believe that we all agree that our common objective must be to ensure that the debt arising from this rehabilitation of banks is fully repaid from the management of this property and will not continue to burden the younger generations from the management of the assets, which unfortunately has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. The share and value of the transfer of companies to a bad bank certainly does not jeopardise any of your previously mentioned conditions. So it doesn't lower the price of businesses or jeopardize criminal investigations. Madam President, I would like to remind you of what you said a year ago and something else. Did you not then know this as a Member or what you do not wish to say? That's the question. On 23 October 2013 you spoke here in the National Assembly, quote, “we do not know what you will bring into a bad bank, we do not know how much, and we do not know at what price.” And I'm not going to keep listing the quote. Madam President, it is true that many of us have not yet known because we did not know the bad tests. The fact is that today it is a net cost of two and a half billion euros, that it is in exchange for bonds in billions of euros, and that this is also the cost of those you have decommissioned and subordinated instruments around half a billion euros. But, Madam President, we still don't know what, how much, and at what cost, it's being transferred to a bad bank. The only difference is that you're the Prime Minister today. That's the difference. But when you were talking about the Public Information Act, yes, our amendments were summarized as well. Of course we will. But, Madam President, why does such a law have to be introduced on a regular basis and a system-wide property tax law has to be applied on an emergency basis? Madam President, who are you afraid of, what are you hiding from, who are you hiding from? In front of their citizens? My question is: What law needs to be changed? Tomorrow at the Slovenian People's Party we will table a change of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	The amendments have been tabled, Mr Pukšič, so we just expect yours for, you don't have to do another. And if you will remember, although you say that I must not look back or get the criticism when I look back, it was both when this banking law was passed and when the Slovenian State Holding Act was passed or if you wanted my criticism that you wanted to hide something. You didn't allow this to be public information. I voted against both of them at the time. And our job is to change that today. And absolutely everything that claims, at what cost, will be absolutely publicly available. All you need to know is that the transmissions are running successfully, and everything you want to know today is not yet available. We're not hiding anything, we're not afraid of anyone, but we're working on your laws or those laws that you adopted as a former coalition at the time. We will complement them, as well as the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, and we are also preparing this change as a law on access to information of a public nature. So, Mr Pukšič, we're absolutely nothing and we're not afraid of anyone. And I am the first to say one thing in the opposition — and today I do so. I don't change my mind when I go from one side to the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič has a request for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm just adding, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, because the rest of you have already said. Madam President of the Government, it is true, then more than a year ago, that the resolution of banks is an urgent fact that we are late, that this is also a fact, and the fact is that with your bad bank, then ours, we will not solve the underlying problem, that is a credit crunch, the economy from this solution will have nothing, that is a fact, and even today the economy of this is unfortunately nothing. You said you were working under our laws. That's right. In more than one year, we have accepted Zuyf, and we owe the country 1.7 billion. That's right. But it is true, Madam President, that you are planning, and your plans are that in less than one year you owe the country by replacing these two numbers not by 1.7 but by 7 billion euros. That's the problem. And, Madam President, who are you afraid of, why are you hiding? If you can't tell me, we'll tell you. We know why these hideouts are in the Slovenian People's Party. But you know, it would be hard to believe that no write-offs or irregularities have occurred in the New Credit Bank between 2009 and 2011, as you today attribute to the former President of the Management Board, Mr Kovacic. But you need to know that you were a member of the Supervisory Board. We also know that very many of your client's Februarys have quite a problem. Both in repayment of loans and in proving why they got them. Madam President, it is not true that we were hiding. We would not only expose the share and their values that would go to a bad bank, immediately and in the law we wanted to expose lenders and borrowers, including readers, including political partners. And the board of the bad bank should also report this to the law enforcement authorities. This was the main element of why Janša's government fell when the economy began to rise when we started to create conditions for the economy. That is why I would like to hold a debate on this response from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Pukšič, of course, in this request for a debate, you also went into a framework that was not within your own questions, but your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. The third question will be asked by Master Matthew Tonin, Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! On 12 December last year, a deep bank hole was discovered. These are the costs, this is the weight that is imposed on future generations and future generations. From Slovenia's independence this is already another rehabilitation of the banking system and since it is also about this other rehabilitation of the taxpayer's money, I think that we must all do everything in this house to find the reasons why this hole occurred, and in particular to bring those responsible to justice. And the third thing is that when we're doing the rehabilitation of the banking system, we don't create new and additional injustices with this rehabilitation. In some ways, the process or rehabilitation of the banking system has already begun. In this process, Christian Democrats see at least two problematic things. The first is the dispossession of the owners of subordinated financial instruments, and the second is the last actions of the Bank's Claims Management Company, or by a domestically said bad bank. If I first touch upon the dispossession of the owners of subordinated financial instruments, I ask you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: Do you think it is fair to dissipate people who had absolutely nothing to do with this bank management, but with all their savings? The excusers, as I said, had no impact on the operations of the banks. Even more. They were promised that if the bank didn't go bankrupt, they wouldn't be afraid for their savings. The bank's not bankrupt, and they're still relieved. The sense of injustice is much greater, but nothing has been taken away from those who are actually responsible for the bank hole. If I touch the DUTB or the bad banks. Most likely you agree with us that we can have a legitimate bad feeling at the end of the move, I will count only three, i.e. that claims have also been transferred to a bad bank, which are fully normal and regularly repaid, that Taiwan's loans have been reprogrammed and that sales of Celov Castles have stopped. Dear Prime Minister, believe me and I know that you know that I am not a conspiracy theorist, but in some way you must admit that all these things create and encourage a variety of plots, because it is difficult to answer the question of why to transfer healthy loans, why to reprogram Taliban loans that are not meant to develop businesses, but only to preserve property. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President: Do you think all these DUTB measures are necessary and fair in the process of repairing the banking system?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, honourable Member. You know, it doesn't matter whether I think it's fair or not. It is important that the matter has been properly carried out in accordance with all procedures and requirements, because it is State aid. Allow me to give you some specific articles. However, I do not think it is necessary to stress once again that all these bank resolution procedures have been followed by the provisions of the Law on Measures of the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks, which was adopted under the previous coalition and which I think you have voted for. And since these measures are implemented by State resources, they therefore constitute State aid. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in Article 107, provides that any aid granted by a Member State or any type of State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition shall be incompatible with the internal market. The European Commission has published in the Official Journal of the European Union a Communication from the Commission on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis, with a view to determining clearly when State aid is authorised under Article 107 of the Treaty. This has been the case since 1 August 2013. According to this Communication, State aid to a bank which does not meet the minimum regulatory requirements shall not be granted until the equity, hybrid capital and subordinated debt instruments fully contribute to the smoothing of potential losses. In short, if we did not do things the way we did, this state aid could be contrary to the rules in force in the European Union. I believe you know what that would mean. With a few of our assistance, subsidies to larger Slovenian companies are currently working on whether the aid has been given in the right way, says according to the procedures to be followed, or not. So, basically, we didn't have any other way than what we did. What is crucial to me, however, is that the application of this exceptional measure, which has been made in accordance with European standards, to European rules, is possible only in the light of the principle that the individual creditor, due to the cessation of the bank's qualifying obligations – this is all that I have listed before – does not suffer greater losses than it would have suffered in the event of bank bankruptcy. I think you know that if we did not react and do what we did in our banks, the bankruptcy of these banks would be inevitable and the result for the owners of subordinated bonds would unfortunately be the same. This is about these so-called subordinate bonds. As far as the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or Bad Banks is concerned, not as well as we all call it. In particular, I would like to point out that the decisions of the management of this company are autonomous and independent. I believe that you do not want policy to be able and would have an impact on these decisions. It is true, however, that in accordance with the law, a company is obliged to exercise due diligence in the performance of its activities, in accordance with the principles of transparency, efficiency, efficiency and performance. Given that, in fact, only a month has passed since the biggest part of the deal started at this bad bank or management company, I cannot or will not judge the current operation or the appropriateness of the business decisions to date. It should be known, however, that the Court of Auditors is obliged to revise the operation of this company or of a bad bank every year. Similarly, this company or a bad bank is obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I wish that they would also communicate fully transparently with the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	The request to complete the answer is mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	Dear Prime Minister of the Government! It is clear to me that the government, or daily policy, or you cannot call the directors of the DUTB and direct them how and how they should operate daily. But it's clear to everyone in this house who calls the DUTB directors. Here your government has scissors and linen to sew and earn things by going in the right direction. As I said, it is difficult to get rid of the bad feeling that the last exchanges of directors at DUTB and perhaps even the withdrawal of Mr Shirtzl were intended to perhaps turn things around as they are today, and not as they should. But like I said, these are conspiracy theories that I can't agree to, and I warn you, as Prime Minister, you have a duty to do something to keep these things from being triggered or done. As regards the dispossession of the owners of subordinated financial instruments. You know very well the legal order of the European Union, and you know that one is a regulation, one is a directive, one is a recommendation and that each of these three groups or these three things has different effects. What you're talking about is a recommendation. Furthermore, the Association of Small Shareholders points out that, on the basis of recommendations made by the Slovenian Government, not all of these owners of subordinated financial instruments should be decommissioned and that this obligation may not become an obligation until 2018. So I think that, as President of the Government, or as the whole government, or if you want to, as a whole Parliament, you should make yourself Slovenian citizens, especially because this is a report and because we didn't have to do it until 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	There were no further questions, but I think it's only right that we say certain things again. The European Commission's consent was necessary for this state aid and would not have been obtained without this agreement. What is it, if we do not agree to state aid, I believe, honourable Member, that you know. As far as the Management Company is concerned. The government appointed the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance as one non-executive director, saying the same as the previous government. I find it hard to believe you can argue with that. But as far as the other three are concerned, there are still the same people as the previous government has suggested, and perhaps we will all come to realize that you did not have the happiest hands here, or if I understand you correctly, in some way you even suggest that we make sure that there are more competent people than you have chosen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you. The request for a debate shall be made by a mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	The President of the government can be very sharp sometimes, but that's fine. Look, I was talking about the one you replaced and the one you set up. We both got this right together, and in some ways you've admitted that the government has scissors and canvas and that it can direct these things if it wants to. Not everyday politics, but at least in principle strategic policy. For this reason, I see absolutely no harm and this would be a positive contribution, but if, on the basis of this reply you gave in this House today, you had a discussion and shed light on all the dark points of view, what and how we imagine that the Bank Claims Management Company will act as if it did not happen, as colleague Pukšič said it would be a company to protect some other people. And also with regard to the dispersion of owners of donated financial instruments, the debate would be useful and necessary, especially because the diametric opposite is the position between what the Government claims and between what the Small Shareholders Association claims, which, inter alia, has made a request for a constitutional review of this part of the law. I would ask you to support this proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. The fourth question will be raised by Mr Mirko Brulc, Social Democrats, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, all present, a nice greeting! Governance with state-owned companies is just before an important governance reform. We are looking at the Slovenian State Holding Act. This must be demonstrated by all its provisions in pursuit of the original objective, namely to improve the acute state of governance of state-owned enterprises and to establish optimal legal provisions for good governance in advance. This must be followed consistently, so we have had and have had a number of comments and concerns on the Slovenian State Holding Act by the Social Democrats. It is not just criticism, but the need for serious discourse, which will go beyond political appeal at the expense of good, efficient and transparent governance of state property. In the last few days, there has been justified indignation in the media when details of the huge payments made by the companies at the time of the adoption of the so-called Lachovnik Act, which limited the remuneration of companies' managements in majority state ownership. More. Data are coming on the day on the remuneration of the management company Bank Claims Management Company, which, under the tactics of the previous government, passed Lachovnik's law under the provisions of the bad bank law. The proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act, however, reopens the field of irregularity in the work relating to the remuneration of managers without clear criteria. We have already warned the Social Democrats of the proposed law in October last year, and I quote: “It is not clear what the relationship between the so-called Law of Lakhovnik and the law on Slovenian State Holding in the work governing payments of managers will be.” Social Democrats cannot agree that the management of state companies will be able to pay unlimited remuneration. Nor can we hesitate to explain that it will be possible to make exceptions if management of companies proves to be good. The Slovenian reality of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises has proved too often to pay high wages and awards, irrespective of the results that exceptions soon become a rule. That's why we're asking you, Madam President: What is your opinion that, by means of a system-wide law or sectoral law, the maximum possible amounts of wages are strictly limited and that other receipts of members of the boards and the remuneration of supervisors in enterprises where the state is owned, directly or indirectly, in order to prevent uncontrolled increases in salaries or benefits, prevent the apparent disproportionateity of their salaries with the salaries of the holders of the highest public functions? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you, too. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My answer will be very brief. As a matter of fact, I have no problem in limiting wages in state-owned companies even to the level of the salary of the President or the Prime Minister. However, I would like to point out that the proposal for the Slovenian State Holding Act does not simply abolish this so-called Law of Lahovnik, but allows it not to be applied in the case of companies where the comprehensive remuneration policy adopted is consistent with Article 23 of the proposal of this Act. Because state-owned companies are highly diversified, the purpose of the proposal was to allow diversity in wage policy. It is said that the owner, the country or the Slovenian State holding company in these companies would also establish this comprehensive remuneration policy. If we do not trust those who will manage our assets so much, I have absolutely no problem with the amendment to the Slovenian State Holding, and I am sure that we will coordinate this coalition very quickly, we will put these things to rest. But when we speak or ask me many questions, if we take into account the comments of the economy, various economic associations, it is necessary to say that, in fact, this solution, which was now in law, is in some way their proposal. But once again, I am absolutely in favour of these salaries being limited. We may be able to take another step forward and limit them, as I said before, to the level of the salary paid by the President or the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you. Mirko Brulc has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. I understand your explanation of the problem. As you say, some things in the legislation will also need to be changed due to poor corporate governance and poor results in the past period, which in fact caused an exceptional hole. It will probably be necessary to supplement the law on the bad bank in the remuneration part. Look, the CEO's salary is EUR 21 000 500 gross per month. You know, for such a salary, a worker with a minimum wage of €783 in December has to work for two years. A two-year-old worker, such a remarkable director, earns so much in one month. Where are doctors, engineers, researchers, lawyers, economists and so on? Where are these comparisons? They don't hold back, so I think it's absolutely necessary to do so. Look, there's this so-called list of 2011 managers' greed. There's a hundred of them there. On average, everyone made about 22,000 euros a month. They've spent 100 million euros of our money. Some are already sitting, some are waiting to go somewhere. Among them are the exceptions that keep companies above water, giving many bread workers and so on. But these imbalances aren't normal. President, I expect your involvement to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	It doesn't matter to repeat everything again. I absolutely agree that there are too many differences and I believe that we will coalitionly reconcile things forward. We're gonna have a hard time fixing things back. And maybe, as I said before, those who were collecting didn't have the happiest hands when we were talking about the Management Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the questions put directly to the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 20th meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, should answer Mrs Ljudmila Novak's questions about the management and management of real estate that have come as insurance items to the property of banks in majority state ownership, and the question of Andrej Cuz regarding the hopeless debt policy at the expense of young people and future generations, but today the Minister is absent due to the participation of the Council of the European Union in economic and financial matters, so I ask the Member and Member of Parliament whether you insist on an oral reply or perhaps you want a written reply from the Minister. If you have an oral response, you insist. Thank you. The Minister will answer the oral question at the next meeting of the assembly. Mr Sam Bevek, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, will answer Mr Sam Bevek's questions regarding the financing and construction of projects under the fourth development axis in the financial perspectives 2007-2013 and 2014-2020. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members, my fellow Members, welcome! Dear Mr Bevk, thank you for the question raised. For the fourth development axis, it should be pointed out that in this part of road development planning and the implementation of the plans themselves are extremely important the following projects. Railway station Škofja Loka, Gorenje vas, Tolmin, Lower Idrija, new building of the road on the Cerkno– Hotavlje section and reconstruction of the road Bača–Dolenja Trebuša and Dolenje Trebuša–Želin. It is important to point out that in this year, as far as 2014 is concerned, both in the preparation of documentation and in the case of the actual implementation of projects, projects are being carried out in the context of the part of funding that is enabled or supported by all European projects or European funds. If we look at individual activity projects, first we go to reconstruction of Bača-Dolenja Trebush road, in the current 2013 plan there were 4 million 619 thousand euros, in the 2014 budget we have 4 million euros, and in the 2015 budget we have a million 468 thousand euros, in order to stress that the completion is planned by February 2015. In performing the works at the section between Lower Trebuša and Želen we have the following numbers. The current 2013 plan provides EUR 242 000; the 2014 budget provides EUR 2 million,891 000; and the 2015 budget provides EUR 773 000. As far as the activities themselves are concerned, the activities run normally. At the moment, purchases for the necessary real estate shall be made. A public contract for the construction of the third and fourth sections of four kilometres is currently being implemented. As we continue to build the outskirts of Škofja Lok, I must say that I am particularly glad that it finally succeeded after these complaints and repeated calls. I also checked everything about the situation and the real urgency of this infrastructure. I have learned that, in fact, the Bishops have been fighting for this siege for 40 years. And we finally did it. 23. 12. The contract was signed in 2013. The State Audit Commission has given a positive opinion on the decision of our Ministry or Directorate of Roads to carry out this call, so that this part of the implementation of this bond goes forward and I am confident that we will successfully implement and also draw all the funds. As we move on to Gorenje Vas Oblast, we have €698,000 in the current plan for 2013. In the 2014 budget, we have 2 million 244 thousand euros and we have a million 259 thousand euros in the 2015 budget. The time limit for implementation in this section shall be 18 months. However, the contract with the tenderer was signed in August 2013. And then we have the Cerkno-Hotavlje section. Here we have the VAT or placing the route in a place where, due to opposition from the local community and the need to examine the relevance of transport and economic efficiency, the procedure was re-evaluated. In August 2013, a re-study of variants was launched to find the best possible solution for placing in the room itself and it is also followed by professional services at our ministry. It is also important to stress that in the overall development and impact of development of the fourth development axis a resolution on the national programme for the development of transport infrastructure in Slovenia is being prepared. This resolution will provide a wide range of responses, as well as a broad basis for the prudence and development of transport infrastructure in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Bevk only has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank Mr Sam Omerzel for his reply. I would like to ask him if I can get more details of this route in writing too, because I believe that you will then be able to explain in the second part some other projects that are also within the fourth development axis of the programme. However, I am concerned that, although on 22 August 2013, the procedure for preparing the State Spatial Plan for the Cerkno-Hotavlje Department was put back in preparation, but this was the document of December last year, this is the Report on the Problem and Dynamics of the Preparation of State Spatial Plans, with proposals for measures to accelerate their preparation procedures. However, on this key item of the fourth development axis, it is stated that the project was stopped due to a lack of resources in the 2014 and 2015 budgets. I propose, Mr Minister, that with transfers of funds within your budget you allow this key project to continue on this axis. Plus, of course, I'm interested in what's going on with the Lower Idrija carousel. [[…]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] is also in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. As I say, I ask for an answer in writing that I will have these sections in more detail. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Minister? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	Dear Member, thank you for the additional questions. Of course, we will deliver to you in writing everything that has been presented today and a little more material. For all developmental axes, we prepare in a graphic form in individual sections, at which stage everything is related to documentation and preparation for projects and also to implementation. Moreover, I would also like to report regularly on all the developmental axes on how progress is, how progress is being made, so that you will be informed in the National Assembly, what work is being done and in which direction these important projects, as well as the public, are being developed, and we will deliver this to you both in graphic form and in addition to those supplements. As far as DPN Cerkno-Hotavlje is concerned, it is true that the matter is returned to the stage of the variant study to determine the most optimal variant. The study is ready, it is in preparation, but it is a fact that we are limited by means. In this response, which we will present to you, we will also draw up scenarios and proposals where we see that these funds can be provided. By working hard, and for Idria too, we will provide you with all the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you, too. We are moving on to the next question, namely, Mr Samo Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, will answer Mrs Janje's question on the 3rd development axis. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Today is obviously the day of the developmental axis. As already mentioned in the previous question, we are preparing a detailed analysis for all development axes, at which stage is the development and preparation of documentation. For the third development axis, I already have a draft graphic work with me. In the graphic image, we will very visually present and regularly report on what development phase is which part of the development axis. For the 3rd development axis, we need to be aware that the 3rd development axis runs everything from Koroška to White Krajina and that we have quite a few sections that are in very different stages of development. In one segment we still have everything in the documentation phase, but we are already in segments or in individual stages, where we could actually start with construction parts. If we focus on the question raised by the honourable Member at the 3rd development axis, in particular on individual sections in the north part of the 3rd development axis. If we go first to the division of the north part of the third development axis, we have divided into four national spatial plans. On the first spatial plan, the Otiški vrh – Holmec connection, at the border with Austria, is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 25. Ten. 2012 stopped all activities and, on this basis, was required to develop a new transport study in which direction this State Spatial Plan would develop further. With the state spatial road plan from Slovenia Gradec-Dravograd connection there is also 25. Ten. 2012 The government stopped all activities in the preparation of the VAT and the requirement was to re-examine the entire project of the rapid road route from AC-1 to Dravograd. The next DN is connected to the state road, the Velenje-South connection to the Slovenia Gradec connection. The State Spatial Plan Regulation for this State Road was adopted by the Government 29. 8. 2013 The Regulation was also published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The VAT for the state road from the connection to the Podlad until the Velenje-South connection, here we are in the process of preparing the State Spatial Plan. At this stage, we have optimization of the F3B variant, which will also be graphically prepared and displayed in which direction it develops. It is important to point out that at this point all activities are coordinated with key space regulators. Here, of course, we are talking about key co-operators, everything connected with nature, water and so on. It is important that, after harmonisation, this project is intended to present to all key operators of space regulation, so that, in preparation for the guidelines at the beginning of the State Spatial Plan, all these activities will be coordinated so as not to repeat the error in the past, where this part of the activity has actually been underestimated and the preparation of the State Spatial Plans itself has to be returned to the variant phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you, Minister for your answer. Mrs Janja The attack is not in the Chamber, so I thank the Minister for his answers and we are moving on to the next question. Minister of Foreign Affairs Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer Mr Ivan Grill's question regarding the functioning of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. I also thank the Member for the question. The point is that if I, as Minister of Health, support the amendment of the statutes that would have been submitted to the so-called internal audit service in the world of the institution, I must say that I would not have supported such a solution in the statute. Let me say that the amendments to the statute of the University Clinical Centre can only be implemented by the consent of the founder. This is said to be the subject of an agreement by the Government on amendments to the Statutes prepared by the Ministry of Health. I must say that I also reviewed the latest records of the meeting of the Council of the University Clinical Centre and, in fact, already in July, September and November, there was talk about preparing amendments to the Statute. The last decision or final decision in this regard was taken at a meeting in November, where it was agreed that members of the Council of the Institute would submit proposals to the Council President for amendments to the Statute by 24 December to prepare appropriate proposals for the Council of the Institute, on the basis of which the Legal Service of the University Clinical Centre would prepare appropriate proposals. The minutes I reviewed did not make it clear that any proposal would go in the direction of subordination of the internal audit service to the Board of Auditors. Nevertheless, I would like to explain to the Member that the law and regulations already prevent such subjection. Even if such a proposal were to be adopted in the Office's Council and also given the consent of the Government, this would be contrary to the positive rules of our country, because the Public Finance Act accurately defines the role of this internal audit service, which are the powers and so on. I thank the Member for this question and will stay awake as long as I serve as Minister of Health, so that no such thing will happen, because it would also be contrary to the positive legislation of this country. But when there is a new Minister of Health, I will also remind him of this warning you gave through the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ivan Grill has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you, of course, that, at least as we have seen in the media, you have somehow rejected the support of the Government to the present, to the newly appointed former director of the UKC, because its operation in the past poses some danger of corruption as well. In this direction, of course, I also expected you, as currently responsible, to support the efforts of the former Council of the Office of the University Clinical Centre, which in this particular part wanted to amend the Statute so that the so-called audit service could be subordinated to the world and not directly to the administration. Experience shows that if this audit service is subordinated to the management or management of the institution itself, it cannot perform its functions on its own, but above all objectively, because, last but not least, the managing director suggests to it what to review and also determines everything from salary to everything. It means that they are in complete subjection to his work and also to his will. And it can come from what? The reports of such an audit service are as the Director wishes, and the Board itself, which is only the supervisory authority, cannot serve in the same way as it would be fine. See, since you are pointing out or stating here that this would be contrary to the provision of such a solution in the Statute by the Public Finance Act, it is, after all, the possibility for this part of the Public Finance Act to change, since such practice would be considered to be introduced in all institutions, so that the audit service, which is primarily the aid of a world of institutions that is only supervisory [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The role of these institutions is to include and improve their functioning and, in particular, to reduce corruption risks. [[…]] The matter here is not hopeless and it is possible, if only will, to do so. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you. Anything else you'd like to add to your answer, Minister? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you. I must say that the Public Finance Act should indeed be amended. But I have to say, this isn't just for institutions. Even for the state authorities. For example, the internal audit service is subordinated in some way to the Minister, but not to him ordering her to act, but rather to help the Minister to help keep the public authority and the institution in line with the rules. The lack of confidence that prevails within the framework of the University Clinical Centre is mainly the fact that the current Director does not enjoy the trust that he should have. Not on my part either, which is why I did not propose it to the Government in agreement, because I am convinced that the police, who conducts certain investigations at the University Clinical Centre and notes that there are certain corruption risks there, that corruption is suspected acts, I am convinced that the Director-General is the one who is objectively responsible for the legality of such an institution. The legality of such an institution also means that there is no suspicion of corruption and so on. If such a solution were to be sought in the statute of the institution, the rest of the legislation should also be resolved. I think it is more of a problem for people who are responsible for the legality of work and business within institutions. Where there are real persons, there are no such problems, but where there are no such persons, such doubts arise and then there are some different solutions. I think it is a difficult legal theory to place this internal audit service. The legislator considered that, under the interference of the one who runs the state authority or the institution, it was intended to help in this respect to ensure the legality of the work of the institution and of the state authority. This is also an open, theoretical legal issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. We have concluded with this issue. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer the question of Marjane Kotnik Popotat regarding the exercise of control over the provisions governing motor traffic in nature. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, especially the honourable Member who has asked a question! In part, Minister Virant has already answered the questions raised. I will respond to that part that is within my purview, that is, what were the penalties for these offences relating to motorcycles in nature in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. From an environmental point of view, two institutions exercise control. The first is the Agriculture and Environment Inspectorate. On average, there are around EUR 25 000 at the annual penalty level, and at the same time, there are also natural security monitors, which are part of the public service. Here, too, the level of punishment is changing. In the last year, there were 13,000 euros. It is entirely your claim that the penalties are symbolic and have no dissuasive effect [[…]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] It's been five minutes. And that's why we need to change here. At this point, however, we are changing through the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. This law is already in public debate, but today we have extended it to 30 days so that 24 can be concluded. February. In this law, which is essentially intended for deadministering, in order to reduce the number of administrative procedures, both by this law and by the Water Act. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	Marjana Kotnik Popotat has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. The Minister of the Interior also gave appropriate answers at the previous meeting regarding the change in legislation in this area and I am satisfied with it. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Anything else you'd like to add, Mr. Secretary? Yeah. You have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. That's what the timer is now. The law is in public debate until 24th, and we will send it to the inter-departmental debate at the same time this week. It is a desire for the government to adopt the law no later than March. Since this is a law that will in particular reduce administrative burdens in this country, Members and Members will be asked to expedite, i.e. the speedy procedure. It would have been ideal if the marriage in the National Assembly had already been adopted in April, but it was more likely that it could have been adopted in May. By adopting this law, we will settle an area where there are very many complaints, where there is a very great deal of commotion and failure to resolve itself for several years. At the same time, the adoption of both laws will actually reduce the number of administrative procedures in this country by 4 000 500 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you, too. We've finished with the answer. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer Mr Ljub Žnidar's question regarding the financing of the Public Forestry Service. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, thank you for asking. Allow me to begin by describing how the Public Forestry Service has financed itself over the past few years. In 2011, a budget of 21 and a half million euros was adopted, and that was also the case. In 2012, it was adopted significantly lower, €18.7 million, and then the government found that money was missing and added €1.8 million. I took over the Ministry myself in March 2013. At that time, the Public Forestry Service was at the disposal of 18 million people, and it quickly became clear that there would be no money for wages. Thus, already in April, we made a commitment to provide at least the necessary money for wages at the end of the year and, in fact, by redistributing at the end of October, we have provided almost 1.4 million euros to the institution. You know that then there was an unloving event when, in a facility that received almost 19 million euros a year, they stopped the work and caused the illegal situation that we had fixed in the shortest possible time. A slightly higher amount is adopted in this year's budget than last year. If last year 18 million were adopted in the budget, although 19.4 was finally realised this year, it is provided in the budget of 18.3 million euros. At the very mass of wages this year, we are counting on all public institutions to save 2.5% on average. One part of this is due to this staff key minus 1%, which applies to all public institutions, for all public and public administrations. The second part of the savings is due to these existing measures in force – last year only half of the year and this year as a whole. The rest, however, we believe that this time the institution will provide a market activity, which the institution can also carry out under its statute, and in the past years, unlike other institutions, many of the institutions under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment have extended market activity very quickly and thus provided their people with employment security, and this institution has yet to do so. Then I'd like to say the following. I am aware, as the competent minister, that establishments in the fields of agriculture, forestry, nutrition and the environment do not have a reserve to provide for the first half of the third quarter. The calculation for all institutions is that it is necessary to provide money over a million 300, for a specific institution, this is the Institute of Forests, and over 600 000 euros. As Minister, I am aware that possible resources will have to be sought within the Ministry of Agriculture. At this point, we are already having some kind of talks with the Ministry of Finance to allow us to do so within the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Mr Žnidar has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Dear President, Mr Minister, the rest of you are present, and also a greeting from me! Of course, I raise this issue mainly with concern about this year's position. We know that this problem arose last fall or the beginning of winter when the conditions for forestry were extremely favourable. When I listen to your reply, I can be satisfied theoretically, but when I look at the budget, the 2014 budget, I do not think that these resources will be sufficient to carry out the forestry public service smoothly. This will also prevent the supply of wood to all economic operators. And in a situation such as the state, it also means a certain development, a certain progress or a constant of economic activity in the processing of timber itself. The Minister mentioned that there will be a greater task in the forestry sector itself, to generate more of their own revenue with their work. I'd say it doesn't always work. Count on what it's supposed to be. I'd say, that kind of math, we know that often doesn't work. I assume there will also be great difficulties in carrying out this public forestry service this year. So I'm interested in not having enough of these funds: How and by what measures will you ensure the difference, that part of the means that this Public Forestry Service will be carried out smoothly and will not harm the economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	I give the floor to the Minister to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr Member, for the additional question. I must say that in relatively serious savings there are all institutions, not just this particular institution. If we just look at the rationalisation that the mother ministry is leading, if we look through the number of employees, that is, the reduction and so on. It will be difficult for everyone in this country, not just the forestry, agriculture, health, education. And within this, it must be said that some have much more opportunities to adapt. One part of this is because it currently has very few market activities, especially international activities, but it is comparable to those that show a completely different picture, including half of its revenues from market activities. I believe that the forest agency will take advantage of its potential. At the same time, another process is under way, which is also important to them. As in the area of the environment, as I mentioned earlier when I was replying to the Members of Parliament, the next step is to rationalise the area of forestry. Within three weeks, the special group will show areas where unloading is possible. For example, we have three-stage planning in Slovenia. If you're looking for the European Union, you'll almost never find it. Then the length of these plans that we have can easily be significantly longer and then much less administration. There are a lot of similar things to do, which makes it possible for more people to work in the field. But the forestry plant is basically foresters. So the agency will have to do its best. We, as the ministry that is preparing proposals for draft laws that need to be amended, or regulations that are then adopted by the government, or regulations adopted by the Ministry, will be very much in the direction of deregulation. This does not mean that you could say in advance that if any of the institutions we cover are not rational enough to jump in between the ministry. Unfortunately for this reserve, I believe that this country is now gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Žnidar has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a broader public debate on this subject. This is an important economic operator, this is said to be the smooth supply of domestic wood. And since there is not enough money for this public economic activity, I propose that there be a public debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer Mr Jožef Jerovška's question about the building of the former Yugoslav Embassy in Rome. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I also thank the Member for the question put. This is a matter of residence in Rome, a residence owned by the former State. After 12 years of signing the Vienna Treaty, the Succession Contracts, which regulates hereditary issues, have managed to agree with the Serbian side to return this residence or to transfer these residences to the Slovenian state. I think this matter is extremely important in terms of the implementation of the Vienna Treaty. You know that some former republics are blocking this process and do not recognise the Vienna Treaty as an act that is supposed to address all those issues relating to the legacy of the former State of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Such are, for example, the foreign currency deposits of the savers, the former banks of Ljubljana. Let me describe this residence in Rome. It is a magnificent building, for a villa of 1,800 square metres, which has approximately 2,600 square metres of yard, garden and is at one of the most famous locations in Rome. However, I must say that this residence is very long, in poor condition, because obviously it has not been adequately maintained in the last 20, 30 years. I also have to say my personal assessment that this residence would need large financial contributions in order to establish it as a function of the need of the Slovenian diplomatic network. My assessment, given that in March 2012, when I had an official visit to Rome, has also personally looked at it, is that at least €5 million should be invested if we are to establish this residence as a function. The residence is usually more intended for what kind of receptions, for the stay of diplomats, but not for working with specific customers. The messenger also asked me about the equipment. I have to say, when I saw that the furniture was completely worn out, obsolete, it was equipment from the time of World War II in a very socialist spirit. Of course, what was left was taken over by Slovenia as a country. It is especially about art paintings, statues, carpets, silver, ladders and similar things. I must say that we did not claim any compensation for the time of non-use, because there was a problem with the surrender, that we could not agree with the Serbian side, what is the area of the yard and the garden belonging to Slovenia, and how much of what belongs to the country of Serbia, so with the help of the experts with the agreement we sought a settlement solution with which both sides agreed. Of course, given that the agreement was in our political interest, because it shows that the Vienna Treaty is being implemented and is also in our financial interest, because there was a property there that was supposed to be committed to Slovenia, but we could not get it in possession, it meant that it was the best thing to conclude an agreement with Serbia and we also concluded it. In this agreement, we also agreed that we would not claim compensation for the time when the facility could not be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you yourself have said that this is a marking building on a marked location that Slovenia needs according to the importance of Rome, the capital. We must, of course, find that there is also a Slovenian minority in Italy and that Rome is an extremely important capital, where Slovenian diplomacy can also cover different parts of the world because there is a conflict of interest here. However, I am concerned, Mr Minister, that your personal view that this is necessary, otherwise you did not say today, to sell, but that we cannot restore and use this and you also said that you did not ask any compensation from Serbia. I am aware from my parliamentary practice that the practice at the embassy in Washington was completely different, where there was a good negotiation and compensation for the delay in returning, when Serbia was also delaying the return, and I also think that compensation for what was destroyed in the equipment should have been reimbursed in the original state. It's also called ladders, art paintings and all that. And that's part of the success. Now, once again, I'm asking: What were the interests in the back? In this large building, you can also give up some floor, it could be our cultural exhibition, we could also find our economic interests, companies that could take advantage of it, so that not all the burden would fall on the country. Some minorities, who are good friends of Rome, also remind me that this Slovenia must by no means be left out of hand. And there's obviously some interest in the back to get it back into Serbian hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, it's about the facility itself. I must say that in Slovenia no state authority has such a remarkable residence. I do not imagine that Slovenia will invest EUR 5 million in order to have a beautiful, most beautiful residence, while we are discussing how we will reduce pensions and how the pensioners will not receive a regression. In doing so, this residence would not save what Slovenian diplomacy is for, it is said that it regulates work with customers because this facility is representative and inappropriate to work with customers. The next thing I want to warn you about. If an expert evaluation is to be made, because this is now being reviewed by experts, if this is going to be sold, it is necessary to know that we will first provide in Rome our own, suitable and appropriate premises, which will be substantially cheaper, and with the rest of this money will be arranged by some other diplomatic consular offices that are in very poor condition. Look what happened to us in Moscow because of the damage to the long-term electrical supply. I think it would be rational for this to be handled in this way. However, it is true that this will not be decided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in mind, but that the proposal will be prepared by experts, so that I will also come to the Committee of the National Assembly on Foreign Policy with this proposal, because I think it is right to discuss this issue where there are different opinions, also at the Committee of the National Assembly on Foreign Policy and that the opinion is uniform. I don't think we could stand the criticism of how it is possible to invest so much money in rebuilding a residence that is essentially above the standard if we look at how our country deals with these matters. You told me I was a bad negotiator for compensation. I have to say it's not the same case as Washington. That's because the reason it didn't happen is because it's on both sides. We did not agree with the Serbian side, with their yard measurements, about the garden, because we would receive significantly less surface. And since the blame is on both sides, such an action for compensation would also be rejected and would needlessly cost the State. That's not what I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Because I am concerned about the direction of the Minister's response, from which I see that, in fact, the foreign ministry is not interested in having at least some representative facility. What the current government is showing to the world that Slovenia is a country of poverty is not necessarily presented anywhere in the world. Mr Minister, you are talking too much about large sums, because to arrange this exhibition window of our economy, they will invest and contribute to this exhibition window of Slovenian culture in Rome, and can be rationalised. As I am concerned that there are some already very clear interests of the circles and also probably very strange circles that have an interest at such a marked location in Rome to have spaces that we can then use in an appropriate way, I propose that, in accordance with the Rule of Procedure, which provides for a general discussion, we hold a general debate on preventing a bad decision from occurring to the detriment of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Mrs Romana Tomc will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Despite the fact that the Minister is not here today, I would like to ask the question that I intended, but at the same time I ask the Ministry or the Minister to provide me with an accurate written answer. Unemployment, as we have already heard today, is one of the biggest and key problems in Slovenia at this time. The number has risen to the highest in the last few years, let's say ten years. According to the employment agency, we now have about 130 000 unemployed people in the institution. On the other hand, we have only 430,000 people in the private sector, according to Ipes, who receive salaries and work in the private sector. The situation is therefore extremely serious. Regardless of the fact that both the Prime Minister and the Minister have consistently stressed that they are solving the problem of unemployment and that it is decreasing and that the government has and is constantly proposing new and new measures that will cause unemployment to fall, the data show that this is not the case. We were able to monitor ourselves how the ministry proposed, and the National Assembly has taken a number of measures to guide this direction, to reduce unemployment or to increase employment, but this has not happened. I asked the Minister about the effectiveness of all these measures proposed by the Ministry, not only in the form of amendments to the legislation already mentioned, for example, a reduction in contributions, but also as active employment policy measures. Minister and Ministry, you have proposed a number of measures, but they do not produce the expected results. I want to know: What, exactly, measures in the legislative field have you proposed? What was the inclusion or use of these measures and what measures are you implementing under the active employment policy? Of course, I also point to the coming so-called Youth Guarantee scheme, where the Ministry and Government, despite the high forecasts of how young people are the priorities of this government, is late with an operational programme and has also been invited or mentioned by the European Commission as one of the countries that has not submitted an operational way of implementing the Youth Guarantee Scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Regarding your request, Mrs Romana Tomc, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will give Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak a written answer. I inform you that, in accordance with the request of Mr Jožef Jerovšek, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the context of the vote, on the question of the reply of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Mikhael Prevc will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Sam Omerzel a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, you are the first and most responsible for the catastrophic situation on our state roads. We all know that in October, when the 2014 budget rebalancing was adopted, you virtually reduced by one third the funds for the maintenance and rehabilitation of state roads. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have very loudly warned you about what this means for further deterioration of the state roads. You were also warned by experts. Last but not least, the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the roads Gregor Ficko, now withdrawn, then clearly and without hair on his tongue warned you what such a drastic reduction in funds meant. This means that 50 construction sites will have to be shut down in order to cost a huge amount of money for winter work. At that time, he also pointed out that the catastrophic situation on bridge facilities, that was on bridges, that were at risk of safety, and that it was necessary to approach the rehabilitation of these facilities immediately, and then, Minister, you assured that there was no problem that all of this could be resolved. If I quote your line. Then you said: "I am confident that within these resources the Directorate will properly and successfully implement all the maintenance necessary for the smooth development of traffic in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Are you still sure that these funds were sufficient and why, despite your promises, the traffic in Slovenia is no longer smooth, as you provided us here in October? And secondly: Will you look for, if not 60 million euros for the rehabilitation of bridges or overpasses that have already become dangerous for road users, or will you let them continue to fall? And the following question: How will you also act on other road facilities and roads that are in a decomposing state and threaten the safety of road users and are urgently needed for reconstruction? And the last question: Who will take responsibility for this situation and for the damage caused to the economy by abandoning the necessary rehabilitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, I thank you for your questions about the situation on state roads. And I'm going to start with the most pressing question about bridge facilities and what is somehow the most problematic in your question. The following facts are important for the Directorate itself. The Directorate manages a thousand 403 relocation facilities within a range of over five meters. The assessment of the condition given, please note the dates, 17. 12. 2013, i.e. after the rebalancing or budget for 2014, was the following: 55 very poor bridge facilities, 245 bad, 495 with an estimate of fine, 290 and 318 such, without any problems. Speaking of state roads, I'd like to take a look at my entire mandate. In 2013, we allocated the most resources practically in recent years for state roads. Almost €190 million in the 2013 balance sheet. This was about 50 million, slightly less than 50 million more than in 2012. When we talk about 2014 we need to be correct. There's always talk of us taking some funds. We haven't taken any funds from anyone. There's no such thing. When we talk about the situation on bridge facilities and state roads, I will focus first on bridge facilities. Most of those who are known to be critical and problematic, the 15 on which restrictions have been imposed, are objects over 50 years of age. At the time of the fat cows, it was known to invest in these objects, and no one took care of it. The report on the state of these facilities and the need to place restrictions on them came shortly before Christmas in 2013, when the 2014 budget was already adopted. Again, one story, one that we should have saved a long time ago, and once again, we are saving it as a department, and it is being saved by this government, something from the past, mistakes that have been made in the past. But it's a leaky fact, and we're also fighting it, and we're operating on it. Step forward, in what way to resolve this situation. We have two very important objects that, according to the analysis we have prepared, are extremely critical. For these 15 key people, we have prepared information and awareness of the state of these facilities and also on state roads, mainly because this situation on state roads is not just the situation of the Minister of State. This is the task of the entire government, and at the end of this Parliament. I hope you understand that with the resources we have for 2014 and 2015, it is done as much as possible. I will also refer to your citation of my statement while defending the 2014 budget. You quoted yourself, I said that I was sure that the maintenance of the roads would take place smoothly. The bridging facilities and issues we are talking about today are a problem of investment and investment maintenance. We should devote more resources to these facilities in order to restore them. When we talk about maintenance, we know what it means to maintain state roads, winter services and everything that goes into this package. So please, we are really right about what the content is. A report we put on the government as an introduction to the state of state roads. Two bridges are key: Socka, Črnova–Arja Vas and Pivka near Postojna–Pivka. For these two facilities, we have invested an additional million euros for each of them immediately, an additional million euros, in order to resolve the situation, because we are aware of the importance of this connection, we have also decided on the basis of an approach based on numbers and analysis. We looked at the daily traffic count on individual bridges. And I have to say, with Sock and Beer, we have 13,000 vehicles and 11,000 vehicles a day, so we put them at the top of the list. But as far as action is concerned, we will absolutely be looking for funds. The currently estimated value requires an additional EUR 30 million to manage all these bridge facilities. The government was aware of this, we are aware of the seriousness of this problem. We are in cooperation with the Ministry of the Economy to assess the damage that could arise in the economy and the appropriate dimension of the problem we will also take seriously to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Here's a request for a response, Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Minister for these answers, which, of course, I am not entirely satisfied with, because I would expect more concrete answers from you. By the way, it's not our eyewitnesses to you in this direction that someone took the money. No, absolutely not. However, you, as district minister and as the first to be aware of the situation on our national roads and how much money these roads need, should, above all, defend your cake with these professional grounds, professional arguments, when this meal was shared within the state budget. I believe that these funds, which are not now that have disappeared, are somewhere within the budget heading. Look, Minister, I'm going to ask for one concrete answer, so I'm also going to go through one particular problem. I myself am bound to this northern incursion in Ljubljana, which is also receiving one-way transport at this time. It's an overpass in Medna. You must know this story. 12 thousand vehicles are tied to this part and there will be big, big problems especially in the tip, because the inhabitants of Medvod, Škofje Loka, Sevska, Poljanska Valley are gravitating to this road, and we are afraid that there will be real chaos around the tip. That's why I'm specifically asking you, Mr. Minister: When will this section be repaired so that it can run smoothly again? That's my particular question. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much for the additional question. Now I don't know if we're getting along with each other on a specific level, you're probably talking about bridging the Mlin Strait, that's the part where we really have 12,000 vehicles, and the Shentjakob-Ribce road. Honey. I have to say, I don't have this bridge facility on this list of 15 critical objects. But I'll check the situation. I don't have any technical data on the limitations on this bridge facility. But what I can say at this point is, what's related to objects where we have 10,000, 12,000 vehicles a day, so we're talking about really heavy sections. We are absolutely aware of what this means for the economy, what it means to be crippled. Look, I assure you that we are committing this extremely seriously at the Ministry, that we are looking for additional funds not only within the Ministry, even within the Government, in order to prevent congestion and, in some way, economic difficulties. So we're absolutely going to try to fix this here as soon as possible. We know time is not on our side. I'm sorry these objects weren't resolved when it was time. These are 50-year-old objects. And a long time ago, it was known that these facilities needed to be maintained in order not to be in the situation we are in today. What I would like to stress once again is that you used the word "disappeared" somewhere in the Ministry. I'll point it out one more time. We as a government and me as a district minister had the resources we had at our disposal. We have tried to allocate them correctly to all sectors according to the policy priorities and the importance of individual resources. We had €120 million earmarked for state roads. I am aware, even with the knowledge or knowledge of December, that these funds are insufficient. That is why we have also informed the government about the state roads situation, and the end will be the decision of this government, which proposal and how we want to provide state resources, additional resources so that we can maintain state roads, especially in that investment area where we are no longer required to be in similar situations as we are today with these bridge facilities on state roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Here you go, Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you again, for your word. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a broader debate on this subject. I am confident that this problem, the problem of road closure, the problem of restricting road traffic, will sooner or later break the court's bottom. It is said that chaos on these roads will soon be unsolvable. The roads will continue to break in practice. They're gonna have to be locked down. The safety of these roads will be increasingly threatened, and I think you also agree that it is right for Members and Members to speak more broadly about this issue. And not least, in a way, we're helping the Minister and the Ministry of Transport. Although I find it very hard to believe, I find it very difficult to believe when the minister says there are no funds. You know, it's 60 million euros to be provided and about 30 million euros should be provided for those most urgent transfers. Of course, this is not such a small amount of money, but we are comparing it to four billion euros, which we are talking about every day, which we are going to just use to rehabilitate banks. It's about tycoon credit money. It's about money that could have been nothing to me, nothing taken to you abroad, Cyprus or anywhere else. Look, the roads are ours. The roads stay here. We can't take the road anywhere. It's about our citizens. I ask that Members and Members of Parliament, in a vote tomorrow, support a broader debate and yet, with common powers, we have a solution to how to actually provide the necessary resources so that the state roads do not continue to be undermined so that we can save the most urgent things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Prevc, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question put by Mr Dragan Bosic to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu, and the Minister of Finance, in his capacity as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Uros Cufer, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everyone. Of course it's a matter of course, Minister. As far as my question is concerned and the absence of the Minister is concerned, I do not expect him to answer again, because the answers are tied to one term and then he would spend all his time chatting with the Minister present. Here's the thing. In 2014, two major sports events, Sochi and Rio, where unfortunately we are not. I mean Rio. Or luckily, we're not Brazilians. In Sochi, we have a number of expeditions that we're all going to squeeze our fists for. And this withdrawal in itself is the best possible promotion of our country. Sports as such, with all due respect to accredited ambassadors, who are not nearly as effective as our athletes. I'm interested in the following. One such sporting event is a big market and in the background of this event many things are happening. The event itself is on a site that may be of special interest to us. This is Russia, with which we anticipate some cooperation, some are already in progress. It is a market that is very interesting for us from the point of view of tourism. That's why I want to know: How does Slovenia intend to take advantage of this event? Although I also had this question in mind for a minister who is absent, we will talk about it ourselves. In what way are we going to use this event to promote? In what way do we intend to use this event for any connection? Do you have any information on economic cooperation, other potential benefits? We're not just talking about Russia. I also speak wider because what we call pay attention is what athletes will do themselves. They will pay attention to themselves, as they did very successfully in the previous Olympics. But I'm wondering how we're going to make the most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Dear Madam Vice President, High Council! Mr Member, thank you for this question. As far as our promotion is concerned, unfortunately, I will have to limit myself to the part that falls within my jurisdiction, and I will have a hard time talking about the rest of my work. Unfortunately, there was not enough time to agree with the neighbouring ministry, so with the Ministry of Economy on this and perhaps I could explain it to you too, but I believe that they will do it in writing. I absolutely agree with you that the best promoters of Slovenia are athletes. If there will be sports success, and otherwise, this part of the activity that is there will also run well. And I don't see any doubt here. We absolutely agree on that. If we are going to another level of promotion, I have information that in all three Olympic villages, because it is in three locations, we will have facilities where Slovenian Olympics will live, which will be equipped with special inscriptions, far visible in the sense of I Feel Slovenia, as is usually the case with this kind of promotion of Slovenian Olympics and sports. Speaking of promotions, not more about tourism promotions, but about other promotions, I would like to highlight some aspect that seems extremely important to me. Not only is this the most numerous expedition, not only that it will probably be at the fifteen Olympic disciplines and over 3,000 athletes of one of the biggest winter Olympics. It is also about encouraging and encouraging the development of young people, showing them on Ferplai, showing how to compete without discrimination, in the spirit of sports, in the spirit of friendship, and, of course, also to win, probably participate. That is why this kind of promotion is also important, so I am talking about promoting home. And the third aspect, which I think is important to me, is the one you mentioned, about this big market. I also intend to visit our athletes in the primary function to support them, to be there. But the main or other part of this story is one whole series of bilateral meetings that we are preparing. Bilateral meetings not only with other ministers responsible for sport and so on, but also about what you talked about, about our economic presence, about our potential on some market, about the possibility of negotiation, promotion and so on. All of this will be my task, and so in this limited time I see our promotion in Sochi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Dragan Bosic, a complement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	Yes, complement the answer. I like that part of the answer. I don't doubt that support as far as flags are concerned. There's gonna be a lot of these from the highest level of the state. But if I go back to your department. Slovenia has world champions in culinary, young. They got a confession in Korea. I think it would be the right way for these things to be promoted in Sochi. I'm talking because I'm at the last Olympics, and now this last one's gonna be on the coaches' team for a while now, and I've been following these people who were promoting Slovenia at the time. And I found out, for example, in the Olympic village, all the kitchens were present, Slovenian was nowhere. A man from Cranbrook, a Slovenian who moved to Canada in the 1970 ’ s, literally stole 20 kilograms of sausage that we then baked to others. These are things that could be handled differently. At the same time, I met a lady in Frankfurt who took Bled's postcards to Vancouver. I didn't understand it the most. He took Bled's postcard and showed himself Bled in 201. In short, in this sense, some active promotion and association, what you put under point two. At the same time, it's a benefit for our young people and for the wider world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Now we as the Ministry of Special Resources have not planned for this, but all such suggestions, all this material that we have and we can take away, will be taken with us. And secondly, as far as the entire organization is concerned, you know that this is a matter of the Olympic Committee and not the Ministry, not one, not the other. That is why we can participate, but we are not the one who runs the whole organization. But I believe that the Olympic Committees will take advantage of this to the fullest extent and that in the end we will also be able to make this aspect, not only sporty but also on the promotion side, so that we can be proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Master Marko Pogačnik will question the Minister of Finance in his capacity as Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Uros Chufer. Here you go, Master Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would now like to start by saying that, given the Minister's absence, I would like the Minister to speak orally at the next meeting. It's been a little over a month since the taxpayers had been rehabilitated by the Slovenian banking system for the second time. At that time, half the euphoria between the government and the coalition MPs ruled, namely that this hole was not as high as some had predicted. It was also clear from the words of the President of the Government that our banks are now probably one of the strongest and most healthy banks in Europe. Now I want to know: Which of these healthy banks, as the President of the Government calls them, will have a particular economy? Now, in the last period, we have not seen any more measures to drive the economy and decommission it. At the very least, what we would expect is to know that the problem of the Slovenian economy is that it is above average indebtedness. However, it is primarily responsible for short-term loans. The result of these short-term loans was the poor liquidity of banks in the past and the poor situation of banks. And now, given the resolution of the banking system, at least personally, I would expect a measure to be taken, or at the beginning of the year, to transfer those banks' short-term loans to long-term loans. Personally, I think that without the development of the economy, we will be able to see very soon that the system in banks is likely to continue where it was in 1996 and what happened between 2004 and 2004 when the banking system collapsed. We know that the number of unemployed is increasing. In particular, I would like to receive a response from the Minister for Economy and Finance, four or five priority actions taken by the Government to get the economy started. Because without the start of the economy, I am afraid that the bank hole in Slovenia can happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. According to your request, the Minister of Finance, in his capacity as Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr. Uroš Čufer, will respond orally to the next meeting of the National Assembly. We turn to the next question put by Mr Branko Smodiš to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All present, respectable Minister! Dear Minister Jernej Pikalo, my parliamentary question relates to the divided disagreement about the admission of the theatre and theatre art department at the Franc Miklosic Gymnasium in Ljutomer. The decision surprised me somewhat, because I am sure that the Franco Miklosic Gymnasium, which is famous for being one of the highest quality educational institutions in the country, would certainly be implemented at a very high level. I would like to ask you to give me the arguments on which you have made a decision to grant a disagreement. In one of the media, I saw your secretary's argument, which says that there is not enough interest in joining this programme in the region. I want to know: How did the Ministry find that entry was not of sufficient interest? I am aware that today we are trying to direct as many young people as possible in a natural way. Let me stress that the Franc Miklosič Gymnasium provides students with very high-quality knowledge in the field of natural science, which is also reflected in the success of the graduation and the high percentage of students who choose one of the natural subjects for the selection. However, I am concerned that more and more students from the area in which the Pomur High Schools operate are taking part in the entry into Bad Radkersburg, which is to say, Austria next door. From the point of view of the mobility of young people within the European Union, this is a very interesting event, but the director of the Fran Miklosic Gymnasium in an open letter addressed to you, Mr Minister, points out that many students are deciding on an Austrian high school because of a more friendly subject that is not so natural. Perhaps a new art department would attract one of the students who will now decide to enroll in a high school in neighbouring Austria. Let me remind you that no educational institution currently implements such a route in eastern Slovenia. I would like to make it clear that I agree that we are directing as many young people as possible in a natural direction. However, we must not ignore those groups of young people who are clearly sociologists. So it's young people who have talent, and it's the job of the state to enable them to develop that talent. I'm asking you: Is there no space for young people who would develop their talent within the artistic department of the drama and theatre in the eastern part of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Thank you very much too, Mr Member. It's true, and you're right. Fran Miklosic High School, I was there a while ago, not long ago when we celebrated the round anniversary, is one of the better educational institutions in this country. It's an extraordinary high school that's never had a problem in its history, not about the enrollment, not about the teacher's staff, and so on. It's an institution, as I call it, with a long history of excellence. But this lack of consensus is not just about this institution, but it is about something more. It is a question of, say, regional distribution of some programmes, either artistic or pre-school education and so on. And you know that a very important place in this decision, why neither at Ptuj High School nor at Lutomer High School do we sign the art department, plays the role of Ormož High School. As you know, the Ormož High School has not only been facing a major problem with enrolment of students for years. In the school year 2007-2008, I think 238, last year, only 97 more. And even last year, there were discussions about how Ormož High School would be combined into a single institution, and that was our position, along with Ljutomer High School. In this way, one preschool curriculum would be redistributed or carried out in Ormož. This way, we wouldn't put jobs at risk. The school in Ormož could run further. At the same time, we could also have an art high school program in Ljutomer. But since you know that this decision was not taken in the municipal council in Ormož, and it was also decided that this high school should continue in its independent form, of course this also means that we cannot have an artistic high school department in Ljutomer. In this equation is also important the Ptuj High School which is, and now I will say very openly here before this high-priced choir, as soon as she heard that the Lutomer High School had applied for artistic high school, Ptuj School had immediately applied for an artistic high school programme. And this is, as it were, the so - called insurmountable riddle, and then the decision of the congregation council of Ormož was subsequently involved. And if you ask me, the only solution for Solomon was not to sign the art school program in Ptuj or Ljutomer at the moment, and with the decision of the municipal council in Ormož, we will keep the Ormož High School for at least a year. We don't think the problem of high school in Ormoz is solved. We don't think that next year's problem is going to be the same and that it's just a nuisance of some problem that we're going to have, I think, repeat. But the Republic of Slovenia is not the only founder in Ormož High School, but is only one of the four founders. And the other founders decided otherwise. As is said to be a broader problem, it is a matter of regional distribution of high school or other high school programmes. And the thing is, it's not like anyone would have this opportunity to develop talent. We've always worked this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Complementary answer, Mr. Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I hope you'll all agree, the Armory High School, the Armory Congregation and the Lystomer High School for the well-being of all, that this will be carried out. I also propose that the Ministry make maximum efforts with regard to these enrolments of students in other schools abroad. Or maybe it is also one of the possibilities for Armenian high school as well as for Ljutomer and finally for Ptuj to come from Croatia to our secondary school, which would have a very positive impact on entry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. All I can do is agree with you. Now that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the European Union, this is one way. As for this departure, this is also the part of the answer I owe you, the departure of our students from at least the places where I come from, I must say that from the 1990s students either go to the Celovec commercial academy or to another high school, including the Slovenian high school in Celovac. It's not a whole new process. But I agree with you that it would be very good to do some analysis, not just say that because of the fact that there are natural objects that are a little less attractive after this interpretation, that our students are going across the border to Bad Radkersburg. There's probably a whole bunch of other reasons. At least it was at our end, and it wasn't just the content of our high school program. In this sense, the high school in Ravna and the high school in Slovenj Gradc would be empty, but they are not, but they are really well-suited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Mateja Pučnik will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In early January, the Slovenian Business Diary announced that the police, due to suspicion of irregularities in the invitation to tender, won the project by the Faculty of Social Sciences in Ljubljana, were to receive an appeal against three people, including Minister Jernej Pikal. The complaint states, inter alia, that everyone working in the project benefited greatly from this. The assessment of the costs reviewed shows that EUR 1.4 million and EUR 150 000 have been earmarked for salaries, fees and business contracts for the FDV project. Minister Jernej Pikalo should also write and publish the article Cosmopolitan Education before the call even existed and former Minister Dr Igor Lukšič should allow the current minister to continue and finance the activities he has already carried out so that there is an impression of duplication of payments. Dr Jernej Pikalo is also expected to receive an authorial fee from the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts as an external associate. The main findings in the media are, therefore, that a lot of money has been spent on mostly theoretical work and that in some cases payments should be doubled. The project consisted of experts from various fields. In addition, teachers and teachers of civic education are expected to have an important part at all stages of the educational process. However, no specific names or institutions or individuals involved in this so-called professional network can be detected and published on the website created within the project. The answer to these questions, unfortunately, is not possible. But we can only read about the amount of fees in the media. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What do you think of the cost of this project totalling €1.4 million, which means that we could actually build a small kindergarten or a gym at school? How much of the value of the project did you actually use for salaries and fees? How do you respond to the apparent duplication of payments? I also want to know: Who was the expert reviewer of the project, and where can we find information on which institutions or individuals participated in this professional network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for these questions as well. I think we've already responded very extensively, but I'm very happy to tell you again. For the first time, as far as the project is concerned, it is a matter of mixing two things and even in the media they do not know the difference between the call for proposals and the project. One is a call for proposals and the other is two projects which have won this call for proposals. You are right when talking about a million 400, but a million 400 is not for the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Social Sciences, but it is divided into two consortium projects. That's been explained a lot, but somehow the media isn't doing it. Now, as far as finance is concerned, I can tell you exactly what the last number is. The project of the ZRC SAZU consortium and the Pedagogical Institute, which is called the Professional Foundations, Strategies and Theoretical Topics for Education for Intercultural Relations and Active Citizenship, together spent 799 thousand 997,72 euros. Of this was the cost of salaries and other reimbursements of the costs of the 556 thousand 581.33 euros project, for the authors' fees, for the external contractors, since always for works, fees under the ESF rules are paid only to those who are not in-house, i.e. fees of 6 thousand 774, social security employers' contributions of 79 thousand 853.64, value added tax of thousands of 335,43, publishing and printing services, e-publishes of 14 thousand 112.33, costs of the final conference of 2 thousand 440.63 and indirect costs of 15 % of 101 thousand 169.81. That totals 799 thousand 997,72. The second project, which you mention within the same invitation to tender, is a project submitted by the University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Social Sciences. This is called National or Nationality in the New Age, and civil education for the multicultural and globalised world. A total of EUR 590 000 962.20 was realized in this project. Of this, it cost 385 thousand 492.19, the authors' fees 29 thousand 10, 60, the contract's work 4 thousand 59 Euros, employers' social security contributions 53 thousand 820 Euros, VAT 3 thousand 291 Euros, the cost of the final conference of EUR 421.60 and indirect costs of 15% 75 000 72.04. That sums up, as I have already said, 590 thousand 962,20 euros. As far as my payment is concerned, if the person involved would go to open an e-book, of course he would immediately see that at the end of the e-book there is a list of resources where these articles have already been published. And for these articles, which have already been published, no one has received another payment. It was only and only that we gave in the cheapest way in the e-book all the things that those who deal with it have in hand. It is about articles published so far in various magazines, books, and is therefore there to be held. And that. For the first time, most people have not received this article paid, so that the instigation in the sense that they got paid for the second time is, of course, completely meaningless. I'd be happy to answer any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pučnik, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Yes, thank you very much for that part of the answer. You haven't been able to answer me to the end, so I'd like a refill. I mentioned earlier that the Civil Education website was also created as part of the project. In the teacher’s subtitle, we would expect the widest possible selection of materials for concrete use and from kindergartens to university. We would expect special kits especially for kindergartens, especially for primary schools, especially for secondary schools and so on. On this page, we find 4 thematic papers for teachers, but unfortunately these materials are not much. We cannot overlook, however, the fact that the first news of the website was published on 3 May 2010 and also provides information that the first civil education network will be created in this way, but that in 2011, the website was virtually dead after the end of the project. Therefore, the question arises whether the Civil Education Project was intended for itself. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Have any concrete substantive and didactic models been developed to teach civic education, as recorded in the project’s starting points and objectives? Have there been any more concrete tools, such as audio and video material, or work sheets, inter-objectual proposals, or expected proposals for redesigning curricula? And most importantly: Has the evaluation of the project been carried out and which new starting points for teaching the National Education offered? I thank you for these answers in advance, many more questions are raised, but we will still have a chance to speak on this subject, so thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, there's something you've already mentioned, something you've already mentioned about these so-called didactic materials. The invitation to tender was very clear and the resources on the invitation to tender are also allocated according to what the invitation to tender requires. And the project has also achieved what the call for proposals require. The evaluation you're talking about, of course, is the matter of the one you ordered, in this case the Ministry. However, I assure you that, in view of the other ESF projects that we have at the Ministry, now that I am employed there, this evaluation is ongoing and even more control in terms of the use of financial resources. Now, where was this used? The results of the project were specifically used to redesign the way in which civil education and ethics are taught and were already taken into account in 2011 in the revision of the curriculum for this subject. In 2012, when my predecessor sat in my seat, unfortunately he did not implement these things. This is the problem with this project that things were made to be ready, but let my predecessor of these things not implement. If we go further, where the results of the projects have been used. They have been used to fulfil the obligations we have at the level of the European Commission, the Council of Europe and other international organisations, because, as you know, civil education is one of the key themes in these organisations. It is also, of course, the issue of the integration of migrants, etc. Secondly, they have been used in the preparation of national reports on the implementation of civic education tasks and migration policies for international organisations such as Unesco, the Council of Europe and so on. Thirdly, they have been used in the programme for children and youth, the report on existing mechanisms and possibilities for financing activities for members of the former SFRJ, in a series of international reports and so on. Last year, last year, the European Year of Citizenship and the results of this project were also used in the European Year of Citizenship. But I am very sorry, and I will say again that they were not more implemented in the learning process during my predecessor's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mrs Polonca Komar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, who is absent today, and for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pical. Here you go, Mrs. Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, the distinguished Minister, who is unfortunately not among us today. The Centre for Social Work of Ravna in Koroškem, from the tenant, the secondary school centre of Ravne, received the cancellation of the rental contracts and demanded that the premises in Gozdarska 17 be evicted within a month. According to Ravne, representatives of the secondary school centre have done so after consulting with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, after failing to pay the rent of EUR 2 000 per month for the fourth month. At the Centre for Social Work they explained that they had not received this amount from their founder, namely the Ministry of Labour, Families, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The payment of the rent was abolished at the Ministry following the Court of Auditors’ opinion that it would be unacceptable to pay the rent to the controller for the premises owned by the State. The Ministry of Labour, Families, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should be prepared to pay the rent to the Centre for Social Work if it was in any other non-state area. Madam Minister and Minister, I ask you: Why does the Court of Auditors’ view that state institutions do not pay rent among themselves takes into account only the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, while the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not take this into account? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honour, this is not exactly the case, and I will explain or try to explain what this is all about. It is not that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not take account of the Court of Auditors' opinion, far from that. We have been dealing with this problem since October 2013, when we also had a meeting on this topic. At that time, we agreed that, of course, the public authorities do not charge each other rent, but that so-called operating costs do arise. We are talking about maintenance costs, insurance costs, operating costs and so on. And these costs are 2,000 and a few euros that you mentioned. The problem that we had was not about rent, but about the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs refused to pay us those costs, which amounted to thousands and several euros, because, according to my data, this amount was not to be sufficiently defined and should be too high. Because we didn't do it, we had to cancel the lease. Well, whatever. After that, we discussed further and agreed that the Centre for Social Work of Ravna will continue to use these areas, which will, of course, cover proportionate costs. It is not a question of rent, it is not a question of operating costs, insurance and so on. And here I think we're going in the right direction, I don't have the data now, whether the case is already solved, but it's definitely in the rescue direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Tomaž Lisa, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Minister and other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Although I had hoped that I would not have to ask a question at all, given that a similar question was raised by my colleague Prevc. But since I'm dissatisfied with the answers, I expect, Minister, a little more in this second round. My question concerns the time and financial framework for the rehabilitation of bridge facilities on state roads. When I was preparing for this question, I read by the DRSC – Problems of damaged sections of state roads in the management of DRSC, their report on the website on this particular problem, as well as your written reply or information presented to the Government. All of these documents contain a lot of historical facts, as well as some current state of affairs. What is essential and what I am asking you is what you will do and how you will act. I'm interested in a financial recovery plan for all 15 facilities, and over the weekend, four other facilities came into this recovery plan, i.e. a financial plan for all of these bridge facilities. I think that all Members will be satisfied, as well as the local communities, if this is purely factual, by line, for each individual and common price. Although we know it's 30 million, I believe it's so little over the thumb. But I'm also interested in the timeline. I think that every local community and Members, in particular those who come from areas that are particularly affected by this issue, would very much like to know when this resolution of the crossing facilities will also be provided. The fact is that there are thirty million and the fact is that this ministry has significantly reduced its means of maintenance and investment maintenance. I myself was present at that meeting of the Infrastructure Committee when we discussed the 2014 and 2015 budget rebalancing when all Members unanimously proposed that the Ministry within the budget provide an additional 50 million for road infrastructure in cooperation with other government entities. But you didn't get that. That's why in this first part, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Where you will receive financial funds for the rehabilitation of bridge facilities and a time stamp of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. I have tried to answer this same question in detail with the previous Member, but I will try to draw the picture again. I really thank you because, in some way, this issue and the problem, the seriousness of this issue that you are exposing, I feel as a support to me as a department minister, that we are all aware of the seriousness of this issue and that together, I, as a resort minister and this government, are trying to solve it. Above all, through the provision of financial resources. Personally, I must also say that I am not overly happy that I have had to go back to the past in the very great deal of solving the problem of being a minister, but it is important that we are aware that these facilities have been standing in this country for some time and that in the past years these facilities have been known to be standing in this country for quite some time and that in the past years they have known that this problem will arise and did not take action when the time was right and when we had enough resources to do so. I am aware that these 120 million euros that we have planned for state roads for 2014 are insufficient, given the current situation and what we learned in December, but I certainly hope that you have also recognized how serious this issue has been. This problem practically opened up or came to the fore less than a month ago. Given the resources we have, we immediately redeployed two million euros for two of the most critical facilities and immediately launched procedures to get the contractor and to remedy the situation on these facilities. I am sorry that these facilities have not been pre-emptively operated by investment maintenance and that this situation has been prevented in advance, that we actually have objects that have been damaged and for safety reasons should be placed here. As far as your specific question is concerned, where the funding comes from and how, the first very important action was to inform the whole government of this current issue. Budget resources and the whole funding issue are not only a matter of a substantive minister, but it is a matter of the whole government. The government is aware of this. We are making proposals, not only for this particular case of rehabilitation, but also for how to provide funds for the maintenance of state roads. We are aware that this existing state-of-the-art state roads would need an additional €40 million at an annual level somewhere, and I will, in some ways, be grateful, and on the other hand I look forward to this support to try to find the source of these resources to remedy this situation on state roads. However, we must be aware that I cannot guarantee this as a department minister without the means. I will do everything in this direction to come up with proposals to find these additional thirty, forty million a year that we need to do the recovery. A concrete estimate of €30 million for crossing facilities, this is an assessment prepared by the Directorate for State Roads. This assessment is very harsh, so that the expert team at the directorate continues to work on a very detailed assessment of what the real number or value of the funds we need to rehabilitate bridge facilities is. We've operated on numbers before, you've seen that the actual directorate controls a thousand 403 relocation facilities of this type. It is important, given the prevailing situation, that both the directorate and we, as the department, must tackle this issue with priorities. Of course, these priorities are based on the facts or on the burden of individual sections. That is why we decided that the first two most critical sections, namely Sočko, Črnova-Arja village and the bridge facility Pivka, Postojna– Pivka are being repaired immediately. We have an extremely high load of these objects, 13,000 vehicles on one and 11,000 vehicles on the other. Of course, all other bridge facilities will be treated according to overload. At present, we have 15 such facilities that have a status or a burden limit. And the only thing I can say is that we are aware of the gravity of the situation, and I will also approach it appropriately to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is obvious that we agree on one situation, and this is the situation that there is no money and that, in fact, the budgetary resources of the Directorate have been realised since 2009, when almost 250 million in their accounts, they have been falling rapidly, most rapidly in 2014, when they are falling from 190 million to 120 million and in 2015 to 105 million. So once again, I repeat the question: Where will you take or where will you convince your ministerial colleagues that they will give up their money so that you can untie the purse? This is where I'm interested: Do you think that the solution to this government’s new tax is the so - called gas cent or tolar, which some publicly speak more secretly about? This is about the financials. As for the time book, I'm interested in: Do you think that the ideal solution is this kind of ad hoc solution, which means that we briefly repair certain bridge facilities, or do you believe that it pays to invest some more money in an individual facility and try to save it more in the long term? In the congregation from which I come, we have quite two such facilities, and I must say that at least one, where you have already promised that it will be a short-term solution, I believe that this short-term solution, apart from perhaps a few months or several years of burdens and some pedestrian bridge, will not bring long-term traffic safety. I'm so curious: Do you support ad hoc solutions or long-term solutions? Of course, I am interested in the financial implications: Have you also calculated what the price for the economy will be for the reduction of traffic or what the security aspect will be, as this measure will overload other road or transport networks? And to conclude: How do you cooperate with local communities in this segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	Dear Member, thank you very much for the additional questions or additional explanations. You have well realized that in the past, the directorate has had as much money as today, almost three times as much as we have today. And that's why I'm turning to the past that actually in those days, priorities should be a little bit different. However, this is a vague fact and history cannot be changed here. What is crucial if we go to look at all the analyses and figures that we have given in the information to the Government, on the one hand, we knew that we had information about the burden of individual bridge facilities, we are working in parallel with the Ministry of Economy, where the Ministry of Economy is assessing the impact on companies in particular areas related to this infrastructure, so that we expect to have these effects, and on the other hand, we will make it easier to set priorities. What matters when you ask me, ad hoc solutions or long-term systemic solutions, of course I am absolutely always against ad hoc solutions, but we must be aware that when we have an acute critical situation, there is no real difference but to solve cases and set priorities. And we can't avoid that right now. What I have to take care of as a department minister, and I will make sure that I come to the government for support with a systemic solution, with a proposal that will systematically address the problem of state roads in Slovenia. And these proposals are already quite a few things in our ministry, but of course I ask you to understand that, until I have the support of my colleagues from the government, with which to continue to go before the National Assembly, it is, of course, unproductive and unconstructive to go forward with these proposals. However, it is of course a fact that, with support from the government, there is a need for support in the National Assembly. And what is crucial in this country is that we must be aware that we have the money at our disposal, as far as we have it, we are trying to manage it most rationally and to the best of our ability to manage state roads. And if we are Slovenians and Slovenes, now I speak as one of the citizens who uses these roads, ready to spend an extra cent on investment in state roads or we will look for other sources of funding, which is a decision at the end of Slovenians and Slovenes. What is further important, of course, I and also the National Gazette absolutely do not support the introduction of new taxes. Any thought in this direction in order to provide funds for state roads with new taxes, of course, I do not support this either, and in this direction we will also design and propose solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Fox, you have a request for a debate, I presume. Here you go, Mr. Lisec. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Yes, thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this point be discussed, for the Minister himself said that this is a so-called All-Slovenian problem, where there are many questions and so far very few answers, so I think that we can all together in this National Assembly find answers to questions about how to make more money to solve this acute recovery, how to do this, in what time dimensions. I, Minister, believe it's not your fault back, and we both know it, but you're responsible for the operation of your services. I believe that many officials have been working or not working, but this is your responsibility in this ministry for several years or decades, so you are also responsible for the operation of your services. Clearly, there will also be a need to talk about their responsibility, for if we do not take responsibility for them, we will have to answer your responsibility as soon as possible. I think that this debate is necessary, because this is also an economic aspect of problem-solving, security or transport, is a matter of local communities, and the question that we have unfortunately not touched today because of the time dimensions, is whether it is possible to draw on European funds – either from the currently closing cohesion policy or from European funds for the period 2013-2020. However, it is likely that this debate will also give an answer whether the new Director of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which you have brought in, will be able to meet these challenges or will be just another one of those who will quickly give up on the Slovenian state of affairs over a state which is catastrophic in the area of Slovenian roads. I therefore propose a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Tomaž Lisec, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Franz Breznik to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The Minister is absent, and I expect him to answer this question orally at the next meeting. My question concerns, in particular, events about 14 days ago when information appeared in the media that ACH or the majority owner of ACH with the Banks Claims Management Company had signed a loan reprogram contract. The loan repurchase with banks of creditors, notably with two state banks – the New Ljubljana Bank and the New KBM, was also signed by Bojan Petan-owned financial holding company. What's most interesting about all of this, especially with ACH and Prote, is that they approved a one-year moratorium, but they didn't want to comment on any of the issues in the Bank's Claims Management Company, nor did the journalists from Finance, Dnevnik and so on. They even stated that they would not comment on specific cases, particularly those in which the negotiations were taking place. However, what is most outstanding is how the principal's debt and payment and the cancellation of legitimate late interest have affected the optimization of the assets, and they have not explained that. They also did not comment on any indications that the conclusion of the agreement constituted an unequal treatment of creditors. In particular, I say that a number of smaller entrepreneurs whose claims have been transferred to a bad bank have been relieved at the moment and there was no possibility of any moratorium on them. So it's a total unequal treatment if we're counting on more than one billion claims being transferred. According to a number of economists, the Bank's Claims Management Company has in this case cancelled at least EUR 100,000 of late interest. If we look at everything I looked at last year, especially with Adria Mobil's business, we can figure out the following. Last year she paid for 27 million euros in dividends. Yes, 27 million dividends, plus 6.5 million dividends from subsidiaries. At the end of last year, last December, Adria Mobil only earned €31.8 million of its own capital, half of which was in the middle of last June and at least after 2003. On the other hand, the financial debt of the New Town Society has risen to around EUR 50 million. I'm talking about Adria Mobile, of course. Thus, according to the informal calculations, Adria Mobil currently has more than 2 euros in debt for each euro. If the Banks Claims Management Company wanted to maximize certain revenues or, above all, look at what its expectations are, because it is a fundamental principle, all these tycoons should literally relax, which is the basis. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: How will the reprogramming of tycoon loans affect the business performance and capital adequacy of banks or the Banks Claims Management Company? What are you going to do to make sure that the bank hole, which made it possible for taxpayers to pay more than €3 billion of recapitalisation last December alone for 3 state banks, will no longer be repeated? I also ask the Minister of Finance because the Ministry of Finance [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. In accordance with your oral request, Mr Franz Breznik, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, will answer your questions orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly in response to questions raised by Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will ask the Minister for Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, who is officially absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings for both ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Real Estate Tax Act entered into force on 1 January this year and has to date been subject to six constitutional judgments. As you know, the party DeSUS and the DeSUS Group were extremely reserved for this law. We have also proposed other solutions instead of this tax, but we have not been heard. All we could achieve was a reduction in social tax and a gradual taxation of housing. That property represents that part of people's property, which is extremely poorly valued, the government itself recognised when adopting the law. In Slovenia there is a strong attachment to home, to home land. That's a fact. A lot of people live in their own houses that they built themselves. Now, however, we have been alerted by people to another major irregularity. The property is part of several records. Land Book, cadaster, GURS. The Earth Book is that trustworthy public record that tells us a lot about the status of the property. However, the data between the Earth Book and the Gursa records do not match. Worse. The owners don't even know about this difference. A so-called fictitious floor property was established on the property inventory. Lawyers don't know what that term means. He can't even be found in our legislation. I hear it's already domesticated at the Ministry of Finance, Durs and Gurs. What's this all about? The census is intended to create, without the knowledge of the owners, individual parts of the property, i.e. floors in one house. These are houses that are built in such a way as: the lower living room, the upper sleeping area. Even though this is the home of one family, Gurs records indicate it as an upstairs house. This bureaucraticly means two apartments, one residential and one non-residential. However, the earth’s book does not establish a level playing field. But we all know that the rate of non-residential housing tax is much higher. Therefore, I ask for clear answers: Does it hold that, as a model for calculating the amount of the tax on these properties, a fictitious floor property will be used, which in many cases will double or even triple the amount of the tax? Do you find it correct that, at the time of the presentation of the financial effects of the real estate law, you did not raise this issue to the public? The Ministry has been using this term for a long time, sort of from the list forward. And the third time: How does the Ministry intend to eliminate this anomaly and when? The decisions are, as we know, right outside the door. I expect an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak, in accordance with your request, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, will give an oral answer to your question at the next meeting of the National Assembly in response to questions raised by Members. Mag. Mr Štefan Tisel will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, who is unfortunately absent today because of the disease, and for the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his capacity as Minister of Health, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	Good-bye to all of you. Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament I have a question regarding nursing hospitals, which I will ask Minister Karl Erjavac, who is also Minister of Health, and the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Since she's not here today, I'm gonna send her a written question. And the rest we'll talk to the minister in charge of health. We know that hospitals try to operate as rationally as possible, so that they convert patients as quickly as possible, as we call it, to order them, and thus reduce their lying down, so that they are provided as soon as possible and released for domestic care. However, there remain those patients or injured persons who need a longer period of care, if we say so, are immobile, need care, help, but hospitals do not have enough room to do so. This led to the development of so-called nursing hospitals, such as Ptuj, Sežana and Ljubljana's old pediatric clinic. However, we know that the homes of the elderly are also qualified for the same work. Already they have many such caregivers, where long-term care is needed, are immobile, have 24 hours presence of a nurse, physiotherapists, working therapists, appropriate equipment, beds, adapted bathrooms and so on. We do know, however, that these services are paid somewhere in the amount of €13, while the nursing hospital costs about €100 a day. Homes are interested in this additional activity, so I ask the Minister, who is also in the role of the Minister of Health: Is it envisaged that older people's homes should also play the role of extended care, especially now that empty beds have already appeared in these homes? Is there also a measure to ensure that the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which pays for this additional activity, also pays this extended care in the homes of the elderly, which would certainly be cheaper than in nursing hospitals?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Member for the question, but of course the question also relates to the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family Affairs and also touches on the powers of the Ministry of Health. I fully agree with you that a certain part of the population does not have adequate care when cases of so-called acute hospital treatment have been completed, but such a patient still needs professional care and cannot be brought home. You asked why it was not possible for homes for older people to do this as social security homes, and you yourself correctly realized that there was no legal basis for it. Therefore, there is always a debate in the air that there will be a need to draw up a law that will allow this to happen. However, it is the law on the long - term care of such persons who have completed acute hospital treatment. I must say, as Minister of Health in office, that at the moment it is not possible to provide financial resources from the Treasury Office of Health Insurance because there are no appropriate legal bases. Why does this marriage involve itself? I have to say, the main reason is money. As soon as such legislation is adopted, this would mean a greater burden for the Health Insurance Office. And you know that at this point, the cashier's office is barely covering all the costs we have in the health system itself. I can tell you that the Ministry of Labour has in its programme to prepare such a law on long-term care is the so-called acute hospital treatment of such patients. However, as long as this law is not available, there is no legal basis. However, I fully agree with you that something will have to be done to enable this part of the population to be properly addressed. At this point, you yourself have found that the matter is being resolved in such a way that some nursing hospitals have been opened, but such a form is very expensive. Therefore, it would be good for us to have this law on a long-term law, because you yourself have rightly observed that some homes for the elderly have all the necessary infrastructure in order to be able to carry out such activities, especially in view of the new circumstances, when we see that older people, especially those who are socially weaker, are no longer able to provide services in nursing homes. If you look at the data on employment in Slovenia, you will find that it is no more than it was before 2008, when there was practically no home for the elderly, but now they find that some capacities are not at the same level as in 2008, they are no longer occupied at all because of the high costs they cannot afford. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Tisel, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Well, we also find that these homes of the elderly are mostly or at least some are really well qualified for this additional activity, and that they are longer than the restless ones of these heavier convalescents, even capable of somehow saying that they are on their feet and then they can go back into domestic care. Of course, I was warned in these homes that the number of providers is declining, no more rushes, especially on the periphery. We know that there are still needs in Ljubljana, so that Ljubljana's nursing hospital will probably still be needed, while in the periphery and in the countryside these homes could also serve this purpose, as I mentioned, would be cheaper. On the other hand, she mentioned the director at the nursing home in Šmarje near Jelšah, where I visited our citizens, that they might even have to forgive the existing staff if the number of caregivers fell. Now they help themselves to have daily care of the caregivers who come in, then the care at home. They are solving these human resources problems for the time being, but in the long run it would certainly be necessary for them to have this option, because it would still be cheaper than is currently being paid by the Institute of Health Insurance in nursing hospitals, people would be closer to home, which is much better for their family to be visited and so on. So once again, I'd like to ask: Do you suppose that you would approach the measures, as mentioned above, the possibility of amending the law and the like, so that those patients with long-term care would also be more comfortable at home and more rational at the same time for a health insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your question. I am sorry that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is not here, because she is essentially the one who has to answer professionally, what solution will she offer on this issue. But I must say that in the homes for the elderly, this has so far been paid by individuals themselves. If this acute hospital treatment is introduced within the home for the elderly, this will be the cost of the Health Insurance Institute, which means that this will result in certain additional costs. Therefore, this situation must also be taken into account. On the other hand, since they will be able to shorten the patient’s lying days in the hospital, as some critical cases are also resolved when acute treatment is complete and it is not yet possible to place the patient in the home environment, care in the hospital continues to be prolonged. In this sense, however, there are certain reserves. So I expect the competent ministry to draw up appropriate professional solutions and the Ministry of Health will have to look at what this means from a cost perspective. I am sure that the reserves could be in the health register, because in some ways they would still further reduce lying times in patients who no longer need acute treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! It is probably not necessary to pay particular attention to the poor situation in the area of maintenance of Slovenian watercourses, which are deteriorating from year to year. In the past, some parts of our country have been affected again by floods, which have repeatedly raised countless questions of responsibility for the consequences. The answer is always and we are looking for it in the absence of financial means that the watercourses are so poorly maintained. That is why the former government, or competent minister Bogovic, also began to systematically resolve the area of leadership, including through appropriate reorganisation. The water management plan has already begun to prepare. The government has changed what's happening now, I'm not familiar, I don't know. I have highlighted the importance of the construction of high-water embankments on the left bank of the river Drava between Maribor and Ptuj several times over the past and the current term. As we all know, the construction of this embankment has been delayed for decades and more. How underestimating the state’s attitude towards this problem has been throughout all these years, it has proved to be in November 2012 when the municipality of Duplek suffered the worst floods in the last 10 years, which have only caused 4.5 million euros of damage in the municipality. Things started to move only after the floods, and a bad year ago, after my efforts, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment announced a public order for the construction of an anti-floating embankment, for which funds from the Cohesion Fund were also provided. And the questions: At what stage is the project for the construction of the Vurberk high-water embankment – Upper Duplek and the drava regulation project in the area of Malečnik and the Dogoša high-water embankment? Does the planned completion of the investment remain mid-2015? What have you done as a minister to improve the state of Slovenian watercourses? At what stage is the water management plan, which was set up at the end of 2012? How much funding has been allocated annually to the regulation of watercourses from 2004 to 2013? How much funding was allocated to the water fund in 2013? Which pledges contributed the most to the fund, and for what investments were the funds spent?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, a greeting from the Member of Parliament and Members! Mr Member, I will reply very precisely, my request is that if we are running out of time, allow me to give you an exact table on the use of money from the water fund, because there are very many items since 2004, as you requested, then I will also deliver in writing. The first question was what is happening at the present time on the Drava basin project, phase one. This is a project where the estimated value of works in the municipality of Duplek is EUR 4.2 million without VAT and EUR 2.4 million in the Municipality of Maribor, i.e. a total of EUR 6.6 million without VAT. The situation is next. In 2013, construction documentation was completed, services were obtained and geotechnical investigations were carried out on the embankment route and preparatory work was carried out on the ground. These days at the beginning of 2014, as soon as the weather allows, the operational start of the construction of the embankment begins. So we are entirely dependent on time alone, all the other conditions are met and it is still valid that the completion of the project is in mid-2015. However, as we have already proposed, we will present to citizens and citizens a forward-looking investment plan so that the information will be the highest. The second question was, we did in 2013 in the field of water. The greatest effort has been made in the area of cohesion projects. I also said publicly that this effort would not have been successful if the previous government had not already provided us with an additional project through the overcommitment, without this cohesion money would not have been saved. The good news is that we only signed €300 million of new co-financing contracts last year, where a large majority is about water-related matters. Further information on cohesion. In November and December of last year, we did as much co-financing as, say, throughout the previous year. But this year will be a turning point, because we have to make a lot of money to make use of all the money that will not be available later. Last year, as far as the Ministry's reorganisation projects are concerned, I must say that we still have a goal, and this is that the Ministry adapts to the water needs of March 1st. There will be no new institutions, but an internal reorganisation, which means that from the Directorate, I simply say, for cohesion and for investment, this Directorate is being upgraded to the Water and Investment Directorate. So everything that happens to water within the Ministry, including money management, will be at this Directorate and other public services will be distributed by other Directorates. The goal at this point is still March 1st. As far as water management plans are concerned. In Slovenia we have two; the Danube area and then the part covering the Adriatic area. Here is the current plan, which we have also discussed on the committee responsible for the Court of Auditors reports, which we are running out of in 2015. This is how we start working on the real plan in 2014, and it must be completed this year as we start implementing it in 2015; this is a multi-annual plan. However, I would suggest that the old one should not be opened because it is running out of time, and if the old group of experts we have at our disposal were involved in the implementation of the new one. However, as far as the financial items are concerned, water management has so far been drawn from two sources. The first source of money was within the budget of the competent ministry and this source is drying up this year, because we are fully transferring it to a specific item that is essentially intended for water management, that is to a water fund. The use of this resource within the budget was as follows: in 2004 – 4,5 million, 2005 – 5,6 million, I am making approximates, I am delivering a precise table to you, Mr Member. 2006 – 6.3, 2007 – 9.5, 2008 was the year most used, that is 22.5 million and from here there are downs, in 2009 – 20.9 million [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which means that time will run out, 2010 – 14,6, 2011 – 13,1, 2012 – 8, 1, 2013 – 7,5 and 8 this year. Then if you give me the option below, I'll read that more complicated table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ribič, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thanks for the answers so far. I would like to say that, so far, every minister who has been in this area has somehow been alerted to the cooperation between the Ministry of Professional Affairs and the local communities, the municipalities that know the most about the environment in which the problem lies. I'd like to present two cases. A solution to the floodgate, as far as the Drava River is concerned. Somehow we all warned that the Drava river should be cleaned, deepened, and in this way we could use this material to build highways around Maribor. But professionally, it's like she worked for a well-known anti-floating embankment contractor. Second experience. For example, the Duplek Hunting Family planted windshields 15 years ago. In fact, the wind lifts this sink and then carries it against the settlement, so we planted these wind bands. Now they're 15 years old. The designer is right on those 10 meters where these wind bands designed this anti-floating embankment and, of course, this wood was cut. Like someone's gonna make money with it or something, I don't know, but we're gonna have a problem again. That's why I want to know: Do you support such solutions? Do you want to check a little, even in the future, maybe for another project? Are you planning to reorganize or maintain Slovenian watercourses? But you've already replied that you're going to hand this over somehow to this directive. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	Member, once again, thank you for complementing the question. But here I just have to make it clear that, as Minister, I am not going into the professional decision-making of the professional services, which was very unfair of politics. But the fact is, they often get instructions to sit down with NGOs and try to find professional coordination. I hope that we are as successful as possible in this area, but if we are always successful, I would not hope to claim this place. Allow now one short report on the water fund, which is the second part of the funding. I will start in 2014 with the most important items and then lead them to including the 2014 plan. For example, an important item is how much money we spend on preparing documentation for such and other maintenance, and this moves from half a million to, say, one million and a half in 2009 or two million in 2011 and implementation of 1.4 in 2013. This year, if necessary, we can do even more for this purpose. As regards the construction and investment maintenance of infrastructure, if 2.6 million euros of money were available in 2004, very much money was then available in 2007 7.8 million, 7.5 million in 2012. But I have to say that in this year's year we have planned for this purpose most so far, that's 10.4 million. After the maintenance of infrastructure and also the provision of public service, this year we have €7.6 million on this item, the supply of drinking water, and the protection of water resources is a supplement to those cohesion projects, that we still have some money available for any emergency projects. This was used annually from EUR 32 000 to EUR million 400, for example in 2007 or EUR 2 million in 2012. We have more at our disposal this year, that's 2.8 million. Of course, the water fund is still most burdened by the Lower Savi Act, which you Members have adopted in this National Assembly. If this burden was slightly less than €1 million in 2004, the burden in 2012 was 31 million, in 2013 26.6 million and in 2014 it is available at this item 20.8 million. This, however, is according to the law adopted in this national assembly. If we look at the total amount of use of the fund; in 2014 we are planning 74 million, and in 2004 we started with 5.4 million. However, Member, if you wish, we will send you a complete table in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Request for a debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you. On the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this issue be discussed in the National Assembly. In fact, I was very interested in how much money is raised in this water fund. Somehow I have a feeling that Drava Power Plants make a lot of contributions to this water fund, but in the area of Drava River and all the tributaries, I'm afraid it's coming back a little bit. What's coming, of course, with a lot of effort. I would also like to talk to you – for example, no one here is involved in obtaining more favourable international financial resources for environmental projects. I have in mind, in particular, the European Bank's favourable loans for reconstruction and development, with representatives of which discussions have already begun in the previous term and it would be good to continue. As a result, favourable loans could make a number of investments in water infrastructure to improve flood safety, help the construction sector and more. Of course, to obtain the European Bank's resources for reconstruction and development, it is necessary to have prepared quality projects and, above all, will do. Regrettably, if it were, everything would be done to first draw on all cohesion funds from the 2007-2013 financial perspective aimed at environmental infrastructure, where the realisation of drawing is only 50%. I believe that these are the real subjects that we could discuss in the National Assembly. These are not political themes, these are topics that touch on each of us, so I expect the coalition Members to support this conversation in the National Assembly, because this is a very, very sensitive area, a pressing issue. I think that you too, Mr Minister, can only help us to bring flood security to a higher level in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In accordance with your proposal, Mr Janez Ribič, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 28 January 2014, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! There has been a lot of talk lately, and it is also written about the abolition of the third quarter of the wage imbalances for public servants. I know, Your Honor, that this is not your sin, that such and similar sins fall out of closets, they have been and should have been abolished in previous governments, but it is so that you, as a department minister, must also do a job that you have not done yourself. However, your district, which you have addressed to public institutions, is the spirit that you somehow expect them to correct matters within their financial means. This means that they are abolishing and should eliminate these imbalances of institutions, which have nothing to do with wages, because according to the law, wages are provided by the Ministry and, of course, everything about salaries should be abolished by the Ministry. The institutions and principals, of course, have some problems, as the annual work plan has provided a framework for action, investment and also for all programmes to be implemented. In current accounts, they may have certain funds that you would expect to be presented to you at the time of the presentation, as well as the balance sheet and the current account situation, you or perhaps the finance ministry may notice that certain funds could now also be used to address these imbalances, but then in the coming months or weeks they would find themselves in an unenviable position. So, of course, I expect an answer from you: How do you plan to resolve these open questions? How did you imagine with this district that these institutions would solve this problem? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Madam President, honourable Member, High Council! It's true, we have a lot of supplies, not least a big problem. As you know, in the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, the funds for payment of the first half of the third quarter are not provided, that is clear. What has been our plan since the very beginning is that we first met with the Ministry of Finance, so we did not just send out the instructions given to us by the Ministry of Finance as a circuit, but we first got together with them and tried to present our very specific situation, which is across schools and institutions, because we believe that our situations are a bit specific. Last but not least, we have different situations and different types of funding across the entire educational and research verticals. Well, in short, the agreement with the Ministry of Finance was that if schools don't have that money, we can guarantee that money for now. What is important is, of course, that this first half of the third quarter will be paid to school workers in February. I think this is what everyone and the entire Slovenian public are interested in; and this is something that will be. What we're going to do is we're going to ask schools to give us, how much of this within the annual work plans, within what they have, what they can do, what they can do, what's on our side. It is crystal clear to me that what you as a former director know is that if someone in the framework of the annual work plan has some activity planned and also defined financial resources for it, then it is not right to go to these funds to pay out the first half of the third quarter. What we're going to do is we're going to review each individual case individually. As it is said, not all schools and not all institutions are in the same situation. It's a big deal for us, but we still think it's worth it. Because if you would tell me now to all schools that we will simply provide money for the payment of the first half of the third quarter, then this requires an immediate rebalancing of the state budget, which is not in sight right now and this is probably not going to happen for a while. So – one soft approach. If it is written in the annual work plan and if the funds are earmarked, then it is clear that they cannot go to the abolition of the third quarter, but it is true that we will look from school to school, from case to case, and thus try to solve, as you yourself have found, even for us a very difficult situation. And it's not just about schools, it's about universities, it's about all the other institutions in our area. These are also specifics. For example, such as that in research projects, on projects that have already been completed so far, of course money will also have to be provided, institutions will probably have to provide themselves and so on and so forth. In short, our specifics are very large in the entire educational and research vertical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. My appeal has just gone this way to talk to those responsible at the institutions, in schools, to look at every case, from case to case. But this is a possibility that there could be that those institutions or schools that have somehow saved and booked certain funds for some superstandard programs – we know that individual students, because of such and different situations in the family, cannot even go to school in nature, pay for an excursion and so on, and schools pay them also from their own resources, so that those funds would not then be earmarked for this elimination of imbalances, and, of course, children would be deprived of certain programmes. Nor should it be that those schools that save should not save in the future and it is better to spend money immediately, for I can happen to them that then such and other "sins" must pay them. We know that it is the duty of those who have set up the school and those who demand school to settle these obligations, as far as wages are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. You're welcome. We agree here; the duty of all of us is forward and key in the delivery of the public service. This is what our obligation is and we must provide the means to do so. Thank you for those warnings. As we say, we have instructions, we prepare instructions, and we will be very careful. Otherwise, we have sent instructions to institutions, schools and so on about these possible requests that they will have to us, and then, of course, this individual treatment follows.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The following question will be asked by Mr Andrej Čuš to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister, like all other colleagues present! In my first question today, I have decided to focus on the National Youth Programme. You are probably all aware that on 24 October last year we almost unanimously confirmed the text of the draft resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022 and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia led by the President has pledged that the first concrete measures for young people in Slovenia will come, will be presented and also some already implemented within three months of the adoption of the text of the Resolution on the National Youth Programme. Today, we can say a few more days than after three months of adoption, I find with great sadness that no action from the programme or from the Resolution on the National Youth Programme has been presented to the National Assembly or to the public, and that, given that this is a very inter-ministerial document, there is a great deal of difficulty in coordinating and drawing up operational and implementation plans. This sleep in this area is worrying, as the number of young people in the Republic of Slovenia is smaller from year to year. For example, in the previous decade, the number of young people decreased by 10% and all of them show or statistics show that the number of older people per youth will almost triple by 2050. Excessive spending and debt at the expense of young people and generations that are yet to come is, in my opinion, an immoral policy and is, in fact, the only policy or action that young people today receive. This is what we feel today in the unfair distribution of the burden of the last crisis, because the young generation is the biggest loser of the crisis, which unfortunately we are still in today. Mr. Minister, given that the President of the Government has spoken so long and wide that after three months we will receive the first measures for young people, and given that this has not yet been heard today, there are even other information in the public that there are enormous problems in this area, I am interested in: When do we get to know or receive at least one measure from the resolution itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	Madam Vice President, nice greeting to you, too. Dear Member, I will say thank you for the question, but at the same time a warning. I must say, I take it extremely well-intentionedly because I think you've warned me of the right thing. It is true that we have adopted the National Youth Programme or that it was adopted on 24 October and that we have discussed at that time three months in which the implementation plan is also to be adopted. And it is right to warn or remind us that within three months we have already reached the implementation plan, but we have not yet begun to produce any results. Allow me just a little chronology on this. We both know that this document, i.e. the implementation plan, is extremely inter-ministerial and requires quite a bit of coordination, if not a lot of coordination. Thus, immediately after the adoption of the NPM, the Youth Office of the Republic of Slovenia prepared extensive instructions on how ministries should prepare individual contributions in their competence. We've done this in 29 years. Ten. 2013 when the Office of Youth sent all these ministries an electronic message with all the instructions; therefore, we are talking about the letter, the letter of the resolution, the annexes, the tables of measures and so on. In this letter we have also set a time limit for the responses or for the preparation of contributions, which was 25 November 2013. For the second meeting of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, we have already prepared the first draft implementation plan and, of course, we have also forwarded it to other organisations in the youth sector, members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, in agreement with other representatives of the youth sector. As you know, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth is at its 1st session, 16. 10. It also adopted a decision to set up a special working group. This working group to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for Youth met for the first time 15. 1. 2014 and has also provided us with all the comments and proposals on this implementation plan, so that the implementation plan, we have received this 20. 1, so seven days ago, and now we're studying them. Of course, at this stage, when all stakeholders made their comments, there was still a stage in the public debate on cross-cutting and, of course, confirmation. That's how this process is going, but with you, I must say, I agree that maybe it's not going as fast as I imagined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you so much for those answers. I am very interested because today the President of the Government herself has talked a lot about young people, and it is really strange to me why there are such setbacks. Given that there are several challenges facing the youth sector in Slovenia, I am interested in: What will you do, and what will the Prime Minister of the Government do to ensure that the new financial perspective is ready in time? Without this National Youth Programme, there will be almost no or no European projects for the next seven years. If I understand from your answers, it seems to me that there will be no NPM itself or measures for a few weeks, there will be no months. Perhaps we are all aware, though, that if we received it in the preceding week, it would be too late, since the text itself was a year late or two later. The youth sector itself has made several comments, and I think it is constructive. On the other hand, I am concerned about the apathy of the Minister of Economy. We haven't had an economic minister in two months. It seems to me that you, too, should step up there and ask Mr. Cuffer to finally contribute to the implementation plan, because at the final stage, which European state today does not have a Minister of Economy for Two Months? I think it's just some guy who's not serious. In view of the fact that for a month or two in public, there is also a debate on the future of the Office for Youth, I am interested in: What is now the final decision on the fate of the Youth Office, which has not known who has been leading it since December? Is this under the authority of the President of the Government, or is this under your jurisdiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Pickalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. As far as the management or competence of the URSM is concerned, it is clear. For the time being, he is placed in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as it will be in the future, but of course we will see. But here our views are very clear. I have to say, I don't care if he stays where he is or goes under the Cabinet of President of the Government. What I'm interested in and what I've also said publicly is that this office is working effectively. That's all. In all the tasks it has and is not so small; from the calls for funds, from representation in international organisations and so on and so on. In short, the integration of the youth sector and so on. If it is on one side or the other, it can be effective. However, if there is fragmentation, then I think it will only increase costs, reduce the efficiency of work and perhaps more. That is why I have also defined this in my first media responses. And secondly, what you ask about the operational programme, or I call it synchronisation of the operational programme with an implementation plan. We are working on or preparing an implementation plan so that it can be synchronized with the operational programme for the new financial perspective, but what you are saying is that these delays are being accumulated and have no harmful consequences yet, but the operational programme is crucial for the implementation of the National Youth Programme Implementation Plan. Therefore, all our efforts, wherever they are stationed, must go in the direction of synchronisation of the implementation plan with the operational programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Hear? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Let me just read some headlines from last week's media in connection with the implementation of the National Youth Programme. In particular: Young Bratuškova should stop deceiving, Paper transfers everything, concrete measures are not yet, if I continue, the Young Critical to the Program of Mrakova Kopač, nor has the Government done anything. I have to say that even today, when I listened to the President of the Government, how young people are the first priority, and then I get to know these things, I'm a little confused. Somehow I have enough, like many others, that the President of the Government is abusing young people for his cheap PR propaganda, and I believe that the National Assembly must hold a debate on the implementation or non-implementation of the Youth Programme as soon as possible or at the next meeting. If, for example, the President of the Government said a few months ago, "We need time," I wonder what we need today or tomorrow. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal on the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Ivan Grill, Minister of Foreign Affairs in his capacity as Minister of Health, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! The water supply at the Oncology Institute is problematic from the very beginning of the operation of this institution. As we can see, the management of this institute is facing the great costs needed to ensure as much clean water as comes from this water supply, as well as a number of defects caused by poor construction of water installations. As we know – and I have repeatedly warned your predecessors – then Minister Kukoviceva obtained a bank guarantee that provided at least some of the possibility of repairing this water network. All your predecessors answered the questions of the Members as if some commissions had been set up to determine where the actual fault was, and that these bank guarantees would be cashed out as soon as possible. As we know, these bank guarantees are subject to maturity, so I'm afraid that more or less of these guarantees have already fallen. In this regard, I am interested in: Is there any other bank guarantee that can be cashed? At least: Will the Ministry of Health in the future — perhaps already — determine the responsibility of those who have allowed these bank guarantees to fall? Are these people responsible? Will there then be any sanctions against those responsible? As is known, the costs of the planned rehabilitation are enormously high, and I am also interested in: When is this recovery supposed to actually take place? Above all: Who's going to be carrying this high cost of recovery? Taxpayers again, or will there be any other possibilities to finance this extremely pressing problem? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Thank you very much for the question. An example of the construction of the Oncology Institute is how it cannot be built. This is the case when a new building is built, at a certain time, to be rehabilitated, regardless of whether it is a new building or a new water system, the contractor was SCT. There were 23 annexes on the contract, which means it was very opaque. This is some health story that relates to investment in health care, how Slovenia deals with these matters. I must say that already in 2012, Minister Tomaž Gantar has also submitted an application to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. This was in 2012. Let me also say that in 2012 a bank guarantee for the correction of errors was also cashed, amounting to EUR 2 million 133 000, which will not be sufficient for the rehabilitation of the water system. You won't believe it. You'll need a new water system in a building that's actually just been built because we've been building such buildings for decades, but not that after two years it's necessary to repair a vital system like the plumbing. I must say that in 2010 these activities in connection with the rehabilitation of this pipeline were launched, a call for tender was made and the contractor Kovinar Kočevje received the invitation to tender. The recovery contract was signed in November 2013 by the Ministry of Health as a contracting authority and as an investor, by the user, this is the Oncological Institute, because the user must agree because the Ministry orders and pays for the user because it operates in the premises of the Oncology Institute. I must say that this contract has been concluded in the amount of EUR 6 million, which is significantly more than a cash guarantee. But it is true that, as I said before, a whole new water system will have to be built. In view of the fact that the contract is signed, it would be expected that activities will begin to rehabilitate this pipeline. I have to say, they didn't start. In this regard, I also convened a meeting where I wanted to clarify why it is not possible to start the rehabilitation of this water supply at the Oncology Institute. The reason is that the director of the Oncology Institute has submitted a complaint to the specialised prosecutor's office because he suspects that corruption would be involved in this call and in this contract. We had a meeting this month with a representative of the Oncology Institute. There was a director, a professional director and a legal adviser who claimed that all this procedure was illegal, that they were crimes and so on. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'd ask if you'd give me a chance to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Mr. Grill, will you give us a chance?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	Yeah, I'm glad I'm interested in how this is going to go down. I would also ask this if you would say: What will be the difference between a bank guarantee of 2 million to these 7 million covers, or an Oncological Institute itself or a state or someone else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	On this point, I can tell you: the Ministry of Health, the budget, because we are contracting authorities and investors. But as it is said, it will also be necessary to determine who is responsible for building a water system in the new building that is not functioning, which is dangerous for patients and is only possible to establish a completely new water system. I am counting on the National Investigation Office, the Anti-Corruption Commission and all these bodies to carry out their business. You know that something is happening that has already been determined, not in this matter, but as far as certain developments in the health system are concerned. However, I think that this matter is ripe for the authorities to investigate intensively why such a situation has occurred and to see such damage. Well, let me get this story straight. You have to understand that as Minister of Health, otherwise in office, I cannot give the green light that the contractor starts working on a contract if the user, the Oncology Institute, considers that this contract is corrupt, that it is contrary to the law and the contract is on the state's prosecution. My opinion is that until this matter is cleared up, I cannot assume the responsibility of implementing a treaty that may be corrupt. On the other hand, there is always a risk for patients if recovery does not occur. I have made it very clear to the Director of the Oncology Institute that if this application in the specialised state prosecutor's office is not successful, it will not be established that the elements of the crime are, that they also assume responsibility for the time when these works did not begin. On the other hand, I must say that we have asked the Ministry of Finance, which has an audit committee, to see if the invitation to tender has been made in accordance with the applicable laws – here I am thinking in particular of the Public Procurement Act. We got an answer that, in principle, as far as this is concerned, everything is fine. To shorten, we have now agreed, at a meeting with the Director of the Oncology Institute, that a third party, an expert, will review the contract, review the invitation to tender and give an opinion on whether there are crimes in there. Of course, we expect the prosecution to find out whether this application is valid or not as soon as possible. Because without it, we can't start. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I cannot assume the responsibility of implementing a treaty that is supposed to be under the suspicion of corruption and even in the handling of the State Prosecutor's Office. [[…]] I'll ask the competent minister [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next. Question for Justice Minister Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! I'm curious, I have a little special question, Mr. Secretary: Does the Attorney-General's Office and his authorities initiate criminal proceedings on an official basis in cases where the public has been called upon to do so? In September, the retired Slovenian Armed Forces Brigadier, bearing the honorary mark of freedom, Mr Janez Schweitzer called for the letter from Mrs Judith Treven describing the inter-war and post-war killings in the Polish Dolomites to serve as an indictment and a basis for the investigation. In fact, Mr Šweincer is also a historian and is actively engaged in this, and that no one will think of him as a left-wing man, says that the partisans in the Dolomites – that in 1942 the Italian military intelligence service of the border units of the GAF of Logatco was actually operated by the partisans in that area under the leadership of the Council of Pehačka, the later general and the national hero, all of which is written in this letter, and that they systematically worked for the people who were favoured by the Liberation Fronts at the beginning of the war, to turn them away from the Liberation Front and to the other side. Now he's demanding prosecution, and since it's an unscrupulous crime, I'm curious: Has the Attorney General's office responded? This is one group of these cases which the well-founded public sometimes expects, and in my opinion the prosecution, under official responsibility, should initiate such matters. Other matters are similar to those of these acquisitions and corporate undermines, as we heard at Odessa last week, when they report that the managers of the financial holding company successfully took over the ACH group and used the profits of the companies in Adria Mobil Group and so on, and so on, as the owners of the Factor Bank, the dividends in those days have already been heavily indebted to the Factor Bank. It is — as many of us write about it — that of persecutive crimes. Are there any procedures in place in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go, Minister Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Jerovšek, first of all some of the introductory explanations on how the State Prosecutor's Office generally works, I believe that you all know that you are sitting here, but that it will be easier to answer this particular question then. So, as a rule, the state's attorneys start the prosecution on the basis of an indictment. This appeal shall be made either by the public authorities or by the police, as a rule, or by what is called the so-called formal appeal, or by anyone else, legal or natural person, the legal representative of the legal person shall file an appeal — this is called a private appeal. Well, usually on the basis of an accusation. Of course, the D.A. can start a prosecution even if there is no complaint. It has this right and duty to know that a criminal offence has been committed, but there has been no complaint, either formal or private, of which I have previously spoken, in fact, to start a prosecution otherwise, even if it comes from, say, a press release. However, it is his opinion that, on the basis of such a publication, if this publication already contains enough information to start a prosecution, if not, he may contact the police and request them to obtain further information on the facts and evidence relating to any criminal record. So, in any case, it is possible to be on the basis of an announcement or in any other way if he finds out about a crime. So there are all these ways. However, when it comes to whether he is pursuing a crime under official duty or on a so-called private action, most of the crimes in our system are such that they are prosecuted by official duty, only some are such, usually less severe, where the prosecutor is not obliged to prosecute, again on the basis of a complaint or if he finds out otherwise, but here is the one who is persecuting him, the offender himself and then this prosecution begins on the basis of a so-called private action. If I conclude, most of the crimes are prosecuted under official responsibility, which means the prosecutor is after them himself, not some injured person. In the vast majority of cases, the prosecution is the one that is the basis for the prosecution of a crime. When it comes to this particular case that you mention or two cases are this, one is the publication concerning Brigadier John Schweitzner, Job 3. 9. 2013, that's probably what you're thinking. The second was the dividend paid by the owners of Factor Bank and ACH. And as you know, I don't have this information as a justice minister. The state's attorney, who, as you know, is an independent state authority, has it. As soon as we have received your written question, we have contacted the State Prosecutor's Office and are waiting for information from them in this regard. As soon as this information is available, I'll give it to you in writing. Now, at this point, I don't have it so that I can "increto" answer what is in these two cases. However, you know that the role of the Minister of Justice is such that in principle it is necessary to avoid commenting on specific matters. However, since you are asking here a purely systemic question about how state prosecutors react to media allegations, and in these two cases in many others, I think this is a question to which the Justice Minister must answer, but on the basis of the information that I will receive from the State Prosecutor's Office. I don't have them right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Otherwise, I believe you have no information; however, how can the public find out whether the prosecution conducts an official procedure, if not through the Ministry. I don't think the D.A. would have divulged any secrets if they'd let you know if it was a question of specific matters. In fact, I think we all understand correctly, this Colonel Schweitzner said that this letter should serve as an indictment for the investigation. For events in Routa and Dolomite in 1942. This letter speaks of some 300 interwar and postwar killings. This General, the Slovenian Army, first to find that he found that systematically local partisans as exhibits of Italian intelligence were working to kill people, to deter people from national liberation. He says it's out of respect for NOBs. I ask this out of respect, too, because these things need to be cleared up. Perhaps in a similar case yesterday, Mr. Stanovnik, when he bowed somewhere to some slaughter, something moved — if that is the case. But, Minister, we need to find a way to find out if our law enforcement agencies are working on this. Tell me how the public or the Members should otherwise address themselves as through the Ministry. I'm asking: Do you not see any way that we need to change legislation or anything? That's what my question is about moving things around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	I am glad that I have an opportunity to further explain this, and I think it is necessary to say this more than once. It is necessary to draw on the legislation in force, as it is now and which also clearly defines the relationship between the Minister of Justice or the entire ministry and the State Prosecutor's Office. This does not mean that I will not then say anything else about the amendment of the legislation, but it is, it is, and under the current law, the Minister of Justice has no interference with the State Prosecutor's Office, except that he may propose a change to the law governing the State Prosecutor's Office and other laws relating to the work of the State Prosecutor's Office: the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and so on. I know and I believe that a lot of people imagine, even from the name it comes out, the Minister of Justice, that the Minister of Justice is the one who is in charge of the State Prosecutor's Office and who has some hierarchical powers here. He doesn't have any jurisdiction. You won't believe it, even less than in relation to the judiciary, but it's an indisputably independent branch of state government, which is not the state's attorney's office. The State Prosecutor's Office, as the Constitutional Court has also found, is part of the executive branch of power. So it belongs to the government that I'm a member of. However, in recent years the legislation currently in force has been such, and it is still that the State Prosecutor's Office has completely distanced itself from the Minister of Justice. Also, when it comes to this particular case, where I fully understand your question and also the expectations of the public, I regrettably have no other choice than to ask the state's attorney to give me information — because, as I have just said before — I have no other option for once. That's the first part of the deal. But the second part of the agreement is that I have been thinking all along, that is, ever since I entered politics and have been the Minister of Justice, that such an arrangement of the State Prosecutor's Office, which is so far away from the executive branch, from the Ministry of Justice in particular, is not appropriate and that legislation needs to be amended here in two ways. The first is that within the Public Prosecutor's Office, a more hierarchical way of organizing is introduced, where those who are led by the State Prosecutor's Office, that is now the Attorney-General's Attorney-General, have such powers, such powers, and thus responsibilities as this organisation is supposed to be – this is not the judiciary, this is the State Prosecutor's Office, which is in many ways similar to the police, and requires a more clear direction and authority, as it is said, of the one who is at the top. This is now completely decentralised and I think this is inappropriate and that is why the state's prosecution has been quite ineffective in recent years and I will propose such legislative changes. In the second part, I think it is essential that the powers of the Minister of Justice in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office be increased in an appropriate manner. Not like in Austria, where, for example, the Minister of Justice is the head of the State Prosecutor's Office, I think it would be too much for this Slovenian space, at least for the moment, but at least a little more than it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Many dilemmas have opened up, and I think my question is an ideal reference to discuss what needs to be done to ensure that the public, when it rightly expects the State Prosecutor's Office to initiate a procedure under official responsibility for the worst crimes – for example, crimes of war crimes against humanity or economic crime – has the possibility that such justified calls will also expect to be actually prosecuted. Now, Mr. Secretary, you yourself have said that you can't do anything here. I believe that legislation is a defence, but that is why we are helping you and the country to make it more effective through the public. I propose that we discuss these answers on the basis of this Rule of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. It is the turn of Dr. Črnak Meglič, who will raise a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his capacity as Minister of Health, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! On 5 November last year, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Health Insurance Act. Part of the amendments also relates to supplementary health insurance, the first part of which refers to the provision in Article 18 that insurance undertakings carrying out voluntary supplementary health insurance must fully use the reserves collected from half of the profits of previous years by 30 June 2014. In our view, the possibility of using these funds is only double, in order to cover losses, as is done by the Insurance Company Triglav, and in such a way as to account for additional health insurance premiums. It has been three months, and we know that these reserves are 30 million, but we do not see anything moving in relation to the use of these funds, especially because the health insurance company is facing major problems in covering its own costs or in fact having to reduce its subsidies to healthcare providers. That's why I want to know: How does the Ministry of Health interpret the article 18 of the Law? What does it intend to do to ensure that the content of the article is realistic or that it will be realized by that date and that these 30 million will be used for supplementary health insurance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you also very much for asking the question. I am convinced that these 30 million must be used to carry out supplementary health insurance. It seems irresponsible for insurance companies to collect these supplementary insurance to spend this money in these difficult times when we know that the health department is having a hard time carrying out all those financial services that would ensure the smooth functioning of the health system, so that the insurance companies spend this money for some other purpose. The law, amended by 18. The Article certainly follows this objective that all these assets, which are profits, be allocated back to those insurers who have paid this supplementary insurance. What will the Ministry of Health do? I must say that we are preparing a meeting with the representatives of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, because they are responsible to carry out this supervision, of course, together with the Ministry of Finance, because the Agency falls somehow under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, and that these issues are clarified. We know what the situation is with regard to medical bills, but it is true that the law is being laid down by June 2014. What matters to me right now is that this money isn't being spent on any other purpose of waiting, but I don't think there's any reason to wait. However, in the long term, I believe that what we also have in the government is to be done in the coalition contract and will also be in the new coalition agreement that supplementary insurance must be transferred to insurance under the Health Insurance Institute, because that objective that we wanted to achieve at the time when additional health insurance was also established in other insurance companies has not been achieved. It is true, however, that here is a directive, a European Union acquis, but I believe that, despite these directives and despite the regulation of the EU acquis, it is possible to find a legal way to bring this together, because these are not supplementary health insurance as they know them abroad. We know that this has also been introduced in order to resolve in some way during a period when this was introduced, the Health Insurance Institute. So you can expect me to hold this meeting and tell the Agency how we understand this provision and I am also sure that this decision has been introduced precisely for the reason that there will be no doubt here. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Dr. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased to share our views on this, especially since we know that we have also written Article 12. Article 12 says that since the adoption of the law, insurance companies can do what they want with profits. This means that, with the system we have, every savings we make in the field of compulsory health insurance is still reflected in the profits of insurance companies that do not know what to do with it or how to use it creatively. What seems particularly important to me is this emphasis on how supplementary health insurance does not constitute a solidarity way of providing funds for health care. We know that compulsory health insurance represents only 70% of health spending and 15, 15% of it comes directly from the pocket, which means that those who are the poorest actually bear the greatest burden of maintaining health care and, of course, that is not fair. That is why, as you pointed out, we have also agreed that we will find a solution as soon as possible. Since you're now in the office of Minister, I'd like to know: Have you, in view of the arrangements we have already concluded and the definitions that we have taken to the individual proposals for the regulation of supplementary health insurance that have already been prepared by the former Minister, already done something and when can we expect amendments to the legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I must say, as Minister of Health in office, it does not seem right for me to start some legislative initiatives because we know that this ministry is limited to three months. I understand it better that I am dealing with those urgent operational day-to-day matters, but it seems unfair to me that, given the limited time in which I serve, I am investing in some new legislative solutions, regardless of whether they are harmonised within the coalition. I think it's right for the new Minister or Minister of Health to do so. Of course, I will organise this meeting operationally, because I would also like to clear up with the Insurance Supervisory Agency, how they understand this article, so that there will never be any problems later with these funds of EUR 30 million, which are in the insurance account, so that this will not be used in any other way; what we are most concerned about is what we are most worried about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič is next in line, with the question for the Minister of Finance in the role of Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Uroš Cufer, who is absent today, but you can ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Slovenian economy is in very poor shape. The biggest problem is financing and payment inefficiencies, as well as the rigidity of labour law and non-competitiveness abroad. Investments, both domestic and foreign, are formerly an exception to the rule. We have an extremely small number of companies that can easily operate from their own cash flow. Moreover, we have the current government of Alenka Bratušek, who, with its operations and new taxes, constantly burdens the business and development of the economy or businesses. It seems completely unreasonable to me that the President of the Government is saying that the situation in our country is improving when everyone in this country is absolutely clear that this is not the case. Unemployment is on the rise, and we hear daily about new forced settlements and new bankruptcys. Well, things are not going in the right direction. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. the EBRD, also reported a few days ago that Slovenia is the only country in the recession in the Central Europe and the Baltic region this year. It is amazing that the government does not hear a call from an economy that speaks very clearly about what needs to be done. It is very clear that the economy will not bring any new burdens anymore, but measures that will help the economy to get out of this critical situation. Among other things, in its coalition contract, the government also listed the second priority under number two, the start of the economy. But until now, she's done nothing in this area. Nothing! Next, he rents the money he spends on everything else, just not what is crucial to the break-in of Slovenia from this situation we are in. This government will have to understand that without investing in the economy and new jobs there is no way to get this country out of the current situation. It is clear to everyone that it will be imperative to reduce public and public spending on the one hand and on the other hand that the money we are investing now there invests in the start of the economy and new jobs. Only then can we expect certain changes to take place here. I hope that this government is so reasonable that it understands how to get the country out of this critical situation. But there is only one way, and these are absolutely new jobs, new added value. So I ask the Minister: What measures does it intend to take to improve the economic situation? When does he finally propose at least one measure to relieve the economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, just one more question, you have not defined yourself, you want a written or oral answer to the next meeting of the oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Pavlič will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Today we had the opportunity to hear the latest figures on the state of the unemployed. There's supposed to be about 124 grand. There would be more if some had not gone abroad, including in the form of day-to-day migrant workers. From Upper Gorenjska, mainly from the vicinity of Jesenic, several hundred, according to some data, up to 2,000 workers drive through the caravan tunnel to Austria every day to work. As a Member, I have been fighting all the time for my upper Gorenjska, which was the first since its development a few years ago, and today it is far behind other regions and is becoming increasingly underdeveloped. That's why it seems to me that the act that Dars committed to irritable tunnels to these day-to-day migrant workers is absolutely impossible. The caravan tunnel is the only transport route that allows these workers access to work. A root saddle like, say, an alternative due to its height in winter time is not transportable. In addition, these people do not have the possibility of using public passenger transport, no railway connections, no bus connections. I find it unacceptable and unfair that these workers are being hit by tunneling for more than 100%, from last year's thousands.075 to this year's 2 000 150, which means one worker's one month's salary within one year. This means that we have deprived this family of about 10% of the family budget. These employees are already at 1 this year. 1. They also become equal citizens and pay all taxes and all taxes under the new legislation, like everyone else. I'm asking you: Have you been informed of this intentional measure by Dars? I want to know: Why has the Interstate Commission not determined to impose the same conditions on these workers as others in other similar European comparable cases? In fact, I leave the solution to you. And I want to know: By what time can you arrange for these people, who are on average two or three other family members, to have the opportunity to reduce these travel costs? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you for the question raised. I must say that from this perspective, how you presented the question and the problem, I see it in a slightly different light. What is important is to say in this matter and in paying for the tunnel for the Karavanka tunnel, that the fact that the price itself has not changed since 1991, except for the transition to the euro. Both Dars from our side and Asfinag from the Austrian side kept reminding them of these prices, so they need to change, especially at the time of the decision to build another tunnel. I am aware that, in fact, for our day-to-day migrants, this really means an enormous burden, given the situation before. It has to be said that when we look at the impressions themselves at the unique transition tunnel itself, and we are not talking now about those who have the map, but for a unique transition, it was already the price of six and a half euros, now it is seven euros. So, for half a euro, this one-off pass has been undermined. What is important and what you are actually referring to in the question is related to non-transferable cards and transferable cards. An explanation by the administrator or the international commission, the interstate commission went in this direction that in fact the technical solution allowing non-transferable maps, the price of which was 2.15 euros for a single transition, was abolished due to technical difficulties. The Interstate Commission, from the Slovenian and Austrian sides, in fact adopted this proposal and then it was also proposed by Darsa. What you are explaining has actually come to the point that today – given that the price of 2.15 euros was earlier for the transition – because there is no more non-transferable map today we have a price for transferable points of 4.25 euros. This actually represents what you've presented. I have to say that I understand what such an incentive means to all migrants. What I can promise at this point is that I will talk or ask Dars to explain to me where this technical problem has arisen, both with the Slovenian and Austrian sides and, of course, the conclusions of this interstate commission, and that we will first see at the level of the Ministry – Dars, what we can do in this direction immediately and of course, that we will also trigger this issue on this interstate commission, to see also the position of the Austrian side – we must be aware that we are partners in some way both the Austrian side and the Slovenian side. As soon as possible, I will give you concrete answers to where the technical problems have been and what you are most interested in is what to do to actually make these 2 000 euros at the annual level you are mentioning, try to get into acceptable frameworks and help our migrants who are going to work in Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the answer is quite encouraging and I would like to add to the fact that my proposal essentially refers to the return of their costs to the existing price. That sounds like what's been going on so far. However, I must reiterate that we are all citizens of the European Union, and I think that if the Austrians can agree on tunnels such as Katschberg and Tauern, it is necessary to work at this interstate level so that this interstate commission can absolutely agree for the benefit of these citizens. But since we need to be aware that this problem is really acute to these people, I'm not going to tell you to approach this problem immediately, because the solution should not be tomorrow, but it should be yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need for a refill. Next up, it's mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. Diana jeedan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to all ministers and colleagues present! In the Republic of Slovenia we have 7 areas where we exceed pollution with so-called PM10 particles. Among others, it is Zasavje. This, of course, violated the cleaner air directive for Europe. Finally, in December, the Government adopted decisions on the air quality plan and, on the one hand, I thank you, Minister, for that, although I must also express great dissatisfaction that this has taken several years. I think it's almost 10. Since all this coordination and this paperwork have taken so long, I am now concerned or interested in performing. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: When can the Zasavci, as well as the people coming from Maribor, Murska Sobota, or from these areas, because you have also adopted decrees, when can they expect any concrete measures or benefits from improving air pollution in this area? I may have been somewhat disturbed by the fact that in this decree, which I have carefully studied, I have seen in several places a verbal link that the measures will relate to awareness, education, communication. Of course, this is also important, but if we are a little sharper, I can say that the mammals are quite well-aware and that we also have practical experience of living in an area where the air is polluted and now we want concrete measures. I'm interested in the financial structure: How much money is allocated for these measures? I also want to know: Will the Government seek to allocate funds from cohesion funds for this area? I know that before I was elected as an MP, there was a plan at public hearing that predicted a total of EUR 5 million only for Zasavje to replace individual hens. Of course, I am concerned that this financial structure is not so encouraging right now, but, above all, I think that what is crucial or what people would have is the Eco Fund's calls. Dear Minister: When can we expect them, both the mammals and the other inhabitants living in these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, honourable Members, a nice greeting, and of course you, honourable Member, have asked this important question. Last year we had four areas, because we were actually before the prosecution of the sentence as an environmental part of the ministry. I must say that three have been saved, and the fourth is also in the recovery phase, so at least we are out of danger here, although the number of proceedings against Slovenia is high. Perhaps the greatest burden in some way was to harm people's health through small dust particles, as we know in the country since 2000, and by the European legal order, we should draw up an action plan within two years at the latest – and we have not. That is also why we have already been close to sayings or judgments before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Last year, at your initiative as well as at the initiative of some other Members and Members, local communities, NGOs, as well as this time very serious work and human resources changes at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment have been able to draw up, in agreement with the local communities, appropriate decisions, which are six already adopted, seven, I think in the shortest possible time, which is the basis for the distribution of money, which we call an action plan. The distribution of money itself is basically drawn from the climate fund and the climate fund is filled with excess CO2 coupons at the level of the European Union, so we have more CO2 coupons – it is true that at this point they only have a quarter of the value that we thought would be – and then divided into countries by the formula. Slovenia has 10 million available in 2014, but we expect this amount to increase from year to year. All this money goes into these areas, i.e. in 7 degraded areas. This year's distribution is this: we have 10 million from the Climate Fund and 7 areas, and it is easy to calculate how much is coming into each area. Within the sum of 10 million, the distribution is 75 per cent for emissions generated within residential units, that is, remote heating, that is better insulation, window replacement, facade replacement, roofing, or some other measures, or in fact heating, and 25 per cent for measures intended for transport, i.e. the use of such means of transport, where emissions of small dust particles are smaller. The money we are transferring to the Eco Fund will go out through the call for proposals, and priority will be given to those who live in regions that are part of the action plans. At this point, most of the calls are ready, so we expect to be out in a few weeks. This will not be the only money that will be available; there will be some additional money, the institution of which is the Eco Fund itself, and then it also counts on cohesion, which is carried by Minister Sam Omerzel. We are aware that the quality of operation over a period of several years is for the Zasavje area alone, which is degraded, somewhere in the size class of 70 million euros. We will come to this money through a combination of state money, European money, the climate fund, public money from the local community and also co-financing from the so-called private source, these are the co-financings that citizens and citizens themselves are investing in, because co-financing of the country is so inviting. In general, what needs to be said is that the effects will be visible somewhere within two to three years, so most other countries have experienced problems with small particles. I think it is also very likely that it will also happen in Slovenia. What's going on right now? At the moment, a copy of the action plans is being drawn up, where there are money distributors for individual actions. These distributions are designed to be coordinated or coordinated with local communities where they are not yet. As soon as they are accepted, they will also be published on the website of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u210	Minister, thank you for this part of the answer and what should I say as if your words were to be gilded or that these measures would also have effects in practice. I was running out of time before, and I just wanted to ask you what you might have already begun with one piece of the answer, this evaluation. Since I am aware of these high penalties that could have affected us if we had not adopted the plans in time, I ask: What do you plan to do if these measures do not sufficiently improve the state of PM10 dust particles? Will this be checked by the way, this evaluation will be carried out? How will you monitor these matters to ensure that the effects in practice are certainly positive? Tomorrow, or this week, Zagorje is also visited by the Ombudsman, which suggests that it is a hot topic. I hope that the ministry will also work with non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment during the monitoring or implementation of these plans. I hope that we will finally improve the situation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Would you like to add? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u212	Perhaps an honourable Member, just more information. The planning of financial resources from the Climate Fund is deliberately conservative, although there are very strong activities at European Union level to return to investment vouchers as planned. Any such movement will in practice enable us to have more financial resources at our disposal than is currently the case. This is the first fact that we may be in favour of in the coming years. The second fact is, as you mentioned, that in essence measurements are carried out almost continuously. We also have graphs for individual areas, where we can see what part of each emission represents within the problems of small dust particles. The following shall apply to Slovenia in general. Almost half of the problems already represent small resorts, this is also some kind of emergency for a large citizen or a citizen when in fact they use wood, such as wood or other types, in inadequate furnaces. These furnaces are low-efficiency furnaces and, after us, the available data of our own measurements actually represent more than half of all problems in small dust particles. That is why it is so important when we talk about measures that we are actually very much observing individual resorts, individual houses and, in particular, what is necessary, thermal insulation, which reduces the need for heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zvonko Lah, who had a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Dejan Židan, and the Minister for Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer, was next. I inform you that Member Zvonko Lah has announced this oral question to the two ministers, of which Master Dejan Židan has determined that he is not responsible for answering your question, while the other Minister, Dr. Cuffer, is absent today. Nevertheless, Mr. Lah, you may ask your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers and colleagues and colleagues! This is cadastral income, of course this law adopts or is the Ministry of Finance's mother-resort, because it is the determination of cadastral income on the basis of calculations, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. This calculation for the Ministry of Finance is probably not done by the Ministry of Defence because it is a field of agriculture. In fact, cadastral income is a flat-rate estimate of possible market income from agricultural and forestry activities on agricultural and forestry land, which could be achieved by an average local normal type and level of production on agricultural and forestry land in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of carrying out agricultural or forestry activities. This cadastral income was established by the old law for the whole year around 60 million, and according to the new law adopted in 2011, which was then postponed to 2012 and to 2013 and, according to these calculations, even 300 million euro. This is more than a billion revenue generated by the agricultural vocabulary, and 300 million is expected to be a profit – this is a greater profit than the Krka drug company has with its medicines, which is of course not correct. And then, on the basis of the decision of the Finance Committee, the Ministry adopted a law allowing an increase of only 10% in 2013. However, I would like to know what will happen in 2014. Since the first calculation showed that it was 300 million, then the next calculation showed that it was minus 60 million, and the third calculation was a hundred and fifty million. However, the Minister responsible for agriculture and the environment, as I know, you promised the vineyards, which were at the radgon fair over thousands, that for 2014 there would be only 10% more than in 2013. But if you hold a calculation of one hundred fifty million, it will be more than once more. That's why I want to know: How much for 2014? If you can answer, if you have this information, if you don't, then perhaps the Minister of Finance won't be able to answer without [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u215	See, we will resolve the matter in the manner envisaged: the Minister of Agriculture claims to have data, but has been identified as unfit for reply. The Minister of Finance is not here, so you will receive an answer or orally at the next meeting, if you so request, or in writing. [[adverts from benches]] Excuse me, do you have to wait, due to technical problems can you please turn on the next microphone? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u216	Then please, if the Minister of Finance at the next meeting responds orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your proposal. We will convey this wish to the Minister of Finance. The next is Mrs Sonja Ramšak, who has a question for the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished ministers, distinguished Minister Plitsanic, Members and Members of Parliament! My question to Minister Plitschani is as follows: Are you planning measures within the Ministry or are you preparing legal solutions to provide citizens and citizens with legal protection in cases where they become victims of organised crime, fraud, fraud and money laundering? In what way will you encourage law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice as soon as possible or to try the courts within a reasonable time? Why am I asking you this question, Your Honor? Last week we were able to learn from the media about a large-scale police action, where there was a persecution of this crime in the area of Maribor and Ljubljana. Let me remind you that this is an organised group dealing with fraud and fraud between citizens and citizens. A similar example can also be seen in the Celje area a few years ago – I think it will soon be ten years ago – but nothing has happened in this area. Recently, however, we were also informed that a similar group, which refers to so-called Celje uniforms and fraud with the same persons, also works unhinderedly in Croatia, where the law enforcement authorities are, somehow has a sense of being much more active than in Slovenia. In order to help me answer this question, I have also provided you with a written question last week. In fact, as you know, this organised group, where certain names are exposed – these names also appear in the media, so I will mention them, although some have been covered in the written parliamentary question - although not by Alex Gradišnik, Marko Romanić, Daniel Kociper, Nino Bevc, Špeglič Dejan, Andreja Škalić and many others. In fact, it appears to be coming to Slovenia that things are not being processed. I've tracked down the press release of one of the prosecutors that they don't have the right methods, so I'm asking you this question. I hope that you can answer me properly, but not in the way that you are not competent or that you cannot get answers from law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dr. Senko Plitchanic, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honourable Members, distinguished Mrs Ramshak! I must say that I am increasingly embarrassed when I receive such questions; in particular, I am thinking about this last conclusion of yours, what I am responsible for and what I am not for, when I have to reexplain this distinction of competence between me as Minister of Justice and whether the authorities of prosecution, that is, the State Prosecutor's Office, or the courts as well as those who form the main part of justice. But something about this then at the end of the answer to your question. First, a few introductory explanations on how the Slovenian law deals with victims of crimes. I think that's one of the main points, so I understood your question. Whether it is properly taken care of at the legislative level first and then how the legislation is implemented by those who have to implement it. These are the ones I mentioned earlier, namely, the police, especially law enforcement, the state prosecutor's office and the judiciary. When it comes to legislation, my assessment that legislation is properly regulated is comparable to that of other members of the European Union. Somehow this means that it is properly taken care of both the criminal law and civil protection of the victims of the crimes you are talking about, namely fraud, extortion and money laundering. How's it taken care of? First of all, how it's taken care of by law enforcement. First of all, there is a criminal offence under the Penal Code for all three offences, for example, Article 211 provides for a criminal offence of fraud, Article 214 of the Penal Code, Article 245 of the Penal Code - all of these articles are articles of the Penal Code - and a crime of money laundering. Also at organisational level, when it comes to these crimes, it is generally the responsibility of a specialised state prosecutor as a specially trained unit within the State Prosecutor's Office to prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes and, at the same time, the specialized departments of the courts in such cases are responsible for the prosecution. In practice, both should ensure faster, i.e. more effective prosecution of perpetrators of these crimes, i.e. at the organisational, criminal level. So at the organisational level of the judiciary. When it comes to civil legal protection, let me say that there is also appropriate legislation here. First of all, victims of criminal offences may have suffered the damage suffered by such offences, with a special claim for property. They may also demand and enforce the nullity of the contract and then also the damage caused to them by it. So they have two sets of civil protection besides the criminal law that I mentioned. As something that could also be defined as protection or the privilege of a victim of crime, we could also define the prosecution of such crimes as an official duty. So the victims need not be bothered to prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes, but should be prosecuted by the State Prosecutor's Office on official duty. So briefly what the legislation is about this. But when we face reality, I believe we can't be satisfied with much. After all, I have been warning this all along since I was a minister in this government, and also in the previous one. Let me say that in general, when it comes to overall efficiency gains, we have recently seen a significant increase in efficiency on the part of the judiciary, even when it comes to judging in cases related to these crimes, so that some of the results are already here. A similar agreement, as a government, with the judiciary on increasing efficiency, I intend to achieve also through the State Prosecutor's Office, and also to contribute as a minister to making the State Prosecutor's Office more successful in the overall prosecution of crimes, especially those mentioned by you, Madam Member. More then in the following answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Minister, I know it is very difficult to answer oral questions. Given that you have probably also received my written question, where I have given this issue very detailed and also selectively, I would like to remind you of Article 177 of the Prosecutor's Act. He's talking about informing the minister. In matters relating to the exercise of your powers, in response to questions raised by the National Assembly and in relation to Members and Members, you have certain powers. I would say, however, that my question was raised precisely because the victims of these rags and cheats somehow failed to achieve their satisfaction in court. If they do not do so in court, this means that, as you have already mentioned, they will be able to claim compensation. Who's gonna pay the damages? As far as I know, the state will pay in these cases. It is sad that this case of cell fraud has lasted for 10 years in the courts and that even the state prosecutor has said that they have no opportunity to prosecute these people, four of whom even fled to America, acquired American citizenship, are on international terror. It is sad that these victims are ridiculed by state authorities and those who should actually help them. Let me say that they also turned to the Ombudsman, to the Anti-Corruption Commission, and no one did anything. That is how I think it is necessary to take care of the victims in the first place and that we will prosecute those involved in such acts in an appropriate and successful manner. This is also my question, and I believe you know that we have also tabled a request in the Group of Members to convene an extraordinary meeting on the effectiveness of the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office. This is one such case. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you. You yourself have given me a good point of view to continue and complete the answer to your question. We all know that the representatives of state authorities must act in accordance with the law. I, as Minister of Justice, fall within the framework of those who must respect the law, which means that it is necessary to have very clearly before the eyes of the powers that the Minister of Justice has in general and, in particular, now in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office or the judiciary. In this regard, this 177th Article is what you are talking about. In fact, the State Prosecutor's Office is obliged to inform the Ministry or the Minister of the matters it is doing with regard to the exercise of its competence. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, if I simplify, to focus in particular on legislation, so it is his responsibility if he finds that legislation is not appropriate – of course the legislation governing justice – for example, if the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, if the Penal Code is not appropriate, the Law on Criminal Procedure, and so on, he can find out on his own, but he can find out on the basis of the warnings of state prosecutors, judges, others who apply the law, so it is his responsibility to propose amendments to such legislation. This is a majority business and a majority of the responsibility and competence of the Minister of Justice under the applicable legislation. In response to your colleague Jerovska's question, I have said that, under the applicable legislation, which I repeat, I must respect, I cannot act differently, I must not, the Minister of Justice in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office does not have operational powers. It cannot require specific data, it must not interfere in management, in specific cases and so on. I have also said in response to the previous question as to how I see the future legislation to be linked to the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office and also what changes I intend to propose in this regard. But that's the law right now. When it comes to these issues, which you are interested in, when it comes to specific procedures and information on specific procedures, I regret that I do not have these powers and cannot ask the State Prosecutor's Office for this information, or if so requested, the State Prosecutor's Office should not give them to me in accordance with the legislation in force. In fact, the relationship between the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor’s Office needs to be seen here — at the moment. Once again, I repeat briefly what I have already said to Mr Jerovšk: I believe that such a legislative regime of the State Prosecutor's Office, which, on the one hand, does not govern the public prosecutor sufficiently hierarchically – this means that the one who is the leader does not have the authority of the leader, as I think he should have it, on the one hand; on the other hand, that the Ministry of Justice has virtually no powers, is not appropriate and I will therefore propose amendments to this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs Ramshakova, also a procedural or proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u226	I would ask that, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this also be discussed in a broader way or in a general discussion. However, I would say to the Minister that this 177th Article, which I referred to, states in the second paragraph that "the State Prosecutors must provide the Ministry with reports and data on the resolution of a particular case or type of case, other than those which could harm the interests of the procedure, the confidentiality of the procedure and the privacy of the persons". And in the third paragraph, "the Public Prosecutor's Office must report to the Ministry in such a way that a timely and appropriate response is possible, taking into account the limits set out in the preceding paragraph", which concerns questions if they are raised in the National Assembly. Thus, I remain in the process of having a general debate under Article 246. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much for your proposal, which will be decided in the framework of the votes. And the next one is mag. Ivan Vogrin, question for Minister of Defence Roman Jakić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! Finally, we had a multi-month debate on the issue of salaries of soldiers and soldiers on the Defence Committee. As you may have found, of course, I have also found that the committee has done nothing. After a few hours of discussion in the presence of about 30 people, the Committee found and adopted a conclusion that it had become aware of the state of salaries in the Slovenian Army. You know, from familiarizing with the state of salaries in the Slovenian Army, the soldiers probably won't get any more pay. We used to swap payment sheets a little bit earlier, but you assured me that you know the state of wages, about €700 is the net salary of a middle-school soldier and such soldiers and soldiers is about 43% in the Slovenian Army. I would not read all these questions that I have asked you, but I hope that at least some of them will get the answers – not me, but those who do. I am surprised that the Slovenian state believes that it is possible to live with seven hundred euros in dignity. Seven hundred Euros, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to live with dignity! The Slovenian state, and in this case the Minister, should still do something, otherwise we are covered in pogroms in Slovenia. At 24 hours, a survey was conducted, about 20,000 respondents or more, of which 32% were respondents or 11 000 730 — an extremely large sample was – answered the question: Where would we put the money if, for example, we received millions in gambling? 32% replied, we must be very happy as politicians, parliamentarians, ministers to move out of Slovenia. One third of Slovenians would move out of Slovenia immediately if they had financial opportunities. How many soldiers and soldiers do you think there are among them? More than 32%! Minister, I hope you do something in accordance with your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Here you go, Minister Jakic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you for the question, Mr. Vogrin. I must say that we sat together on the Defence Committee, where in fact there was a multi-year debate where we addressed the issue of the social situation of soldiers in the Slovenian Army with special emphasis on salaries. Most of this data was presented there. Nevertheless, given that you have put a test on your written question, I would like to answer it. If we first touch the departure of the soldiers, because there is a claim that these departures are large, over 250. It's true. For 2013, these departures were 292, for 2012 and 2011 Pardon, for 2011 296 for 2012 265 and for this year and for the year 2013 292. [[…]] At the same time, I must say that the Slovenian Army has also hired new, 171 employees, and has achieved essentially a staff structure in line with the adopted Staff Plan, namely 7 000 358 members and members. The claim of fear of the collapse of the Slovenian Army's professional completion system due to departure is, in our opinion, excessive and does not really hold back the professional debate. With regard to the salaries of soldiers and soldiers, I have already pointed out in the debate on the Committee that the salaries of soldiers in the face of all their burdens and threats to which they are exposed are certainly not high – I must say that I fully believe – and at this point they provide at least that minimum social security and are comparable within the public sector. You know that when this salary system was built in the public sector, soldiers, police and prison staff were exempted and have more than comparable civil servants in other sectors at the starting point. The average salary according to the figures of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and Mr Chief of General Staff presented this on the Committee, with a net education rate of €814. Of course, we can go from where the range is, but the average wage is like the average salary in the Slovenian Army of a thousand EUR 029 when soldiers are on missions, but the average salary is about EUR 3 000 305. But I must also say that, in addition to the general austerity measures in force throughout the public sector, there have also been systematic austerity measures in the defence system and in particular in the Slovenian Army over the past years in addition to the additions, transport to work and payment of overtime. I think there is the biggest problem here; that on the one hand these revenues have been reduced, because sometimes they drove from Murska Sobota to Koper or to Kranj, that I will not exaggerate and that the payment of travel costs was very high and that on the human side soldiers and soldiers understood him as part of the salary. Now it is not, and only has a basic salary, which makes it difficult to survive, just as it is difficult to survive other comparable public servants and employees. If you'll excuse me, you've asked your question why we're not able to provide a decent payment to a professional soldier. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to introduce a Swiss army by example? Of course, that's very unusual. In 2002, we started professionalization, 2003 introduced it, 2010 abolished compulsory service in reserve composition and it is not nearly a Member State in NATO, but if it already has – you have warned of Switzerland, I will tell you that Turkey is earmarking, in dollars, 18 billion for the military, that Austria, which is not a NATO member, has a subscription fee of 3 billion 200, that Switzerland, which is neutral, 4 billion 800 million dollars, and we are making $788 million. But I will also answer the remaining questions below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much for now. Master Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u232	Dear Minister, you will agree with me that I am not the one of the Members who would try to beat something up in any way in matters. However, you did not answer any of the questions. Look, it's like if I asked you what you think lunch is like, and you'd answer me who made it. The explicit question is: What are you going to do to make the wages higher? Indeed, we can refer to austerity measures for the public sector wage system. The wage system in the public sector is a bureaucratic invention of a bureaucratic murderer, which should be eliminated at least in the field of the army where you are competent. Saving measures, Mr Minister, you are a member of the Government, let these austerity measures be abolished for salaries below 900 euros that provide some existential minimums. Not that we have wages in the public and parastatal sectors where we have already witnessed such problems today, and the President of the Government also agreed that the wage ratio is probably 1:20, where as many people have five times the salary in this country from the tax money as the President of the State or the President of the Government – probably unsustainable! That's what we expect! I am not asking the question of the Member of Parliament – you have also seen that I was not on the Defence Committee who would beat something up and sharpen it because I am not a member of the government coalition. No! No! Pays €700,800 for a professional soldier – he can't survive with it, or else people can't survive. But we're talking about soldiers now. A thousand euros is paid by a high school soldier, which is my opinion and the opinion of many. How we handle this is a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u234	Again, thank you very much, of course, for the additional question. In fact, the answer is somehow simple. If the unions harmonise in the wage system for 2015 and beyond, we can talk about this. On the committee, I said that I would be exempt from the payment system of public servants all the particulars that the Slovenian Armed Forces had and in the opinion of the Ministry, but, of course, we are opening Pandora's box. We cannot separate the salaries of employees in the Slovenian Army without opening a discussion on public health, public education, culture and so on. I just want to say that I have already said on the committee, even if the budget of the Slovenian Armed Forces or the Ministry of Defence were voted in the National Assembly to make it bigger once more. In fact, I do not have a legal basis to provide Slovenian soldiers and soldiers with a higher salary. Because they are passed over by drawers that were accepted in the National Assembly and treated as all public servants. By saying again, when this system was adopted, policemen, soldiers and prison staff were essentially privileged because they were starting with five payment classes more than their colleagues, if I may say so, who were in civilian possession. I hope that when the financial and economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia is better, we will also be able to discuss wage increases in the public sector or the possible exclusion of certain professions that are now in the public sector from this public sector. But, of course, even in the face of a financial situation that is, it is almost impossible to think about any way that we can exclude this segment and further reward it. I would love it, because soldiers and soldiers sacrifice a lot at home, especially abroad, helping people at home and abroad, and I would like to reward them. But unfortunately, the system is what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Minister Jakic. You want a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u236	Procedural proposal. Given that the Defence Committee has not carried out its task, it has not adopted any conclusions, except that it has become aware of the situation. If the board is familiar with the situation, the wallets of the soldiers and soldiers know nothing. I suggest that the National Assembly conducts a general debate in the sense that the Public Sector Wages Act, Mr. Minister, may be amended immediately – do you know how many laws the National Assembly has adopted following a rapid emergency procedure – and arrange that this law states that the ratio between the highest and lowest wages is 1:5. If this is accepted, the lowest wage can be lifted immediately. You know why? Which is a psychological trick. Those who have the highest wages, five times their salary, will also want lower wages to be higher. Because 5 times 9 is 45, 5 times 7 is 35. And we get to the pay system, as it is now, between the lowest and during the pay of the first minister in the Slovenian government. Easy! Money will be found and found if it were ready, but that's the problem with this policy. And that, or I don't have this controversy to accuse you of anything or to think you have a magic wand. That's what I said on the board. But it would be wise for you to take a real stand for this relationship. Because then they won't be soldiers – I have down the payroll, because you kindly returned them to me, the soldiers are carrying home 700, 722, not even the lowest. Then he won't – I'd say that this statement just made you feel a little guilty about having privileged salaries. Look, 700, 800 euros is not a privileged salary, but if we could read that they have billions of holes in banks, 10,000, 20,000 gross, and if it's 700 net, it's gross 1,000 euros. That's it, 20 times it is. Mr Minister, I hope that your coalition will vote on the proposal for a general debate. That'll do you good. The National Assembly should adopt some of these guidelines and you, as Minister, will be able to do what I believe in principle you want: that the lowest wages will be raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much, mag. Vogrin. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now it's mag. Majda Potrat with a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! Dear Minister Jernej Pikalo, your discussions on the budget at any other occasion strengthen me in the conviction that you want to arrange for the financing of higher education and the scientific sphere in order to ensure stable sources of funding, thereby exploiting the development potential of Slovenian intelligence and also ensuring the competitiveness of Slovenian higher education. If the first third of this year passes as a sign of the Higher Education Act, it is likely that the last third of the year will pass when the Law on Scientific and Research and Innovative Activities is considered. However, in parallel with the discussions on the Higher Education Act, the financing of scientific activities in higher education institutions also raises issues. In the media, it could be seen that, on average, 0.49% of gross domestic product, the European Union devotes research activities, is supposed to be much less modest in Slovenia and is expected to be only 0.29% of gross domestic product. That's why I think it's a reasonable question: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport ensure the stability and development of scientific research activities in our country? In fact, in the course of the budget debate, you said a planned approximation to the 3% threshold that Barcelona's objectives forecast for funding for research and innovation activities, of course related to development activity. This could also raise the issue of the rejuvenation of the scientific research sphere, as pointed out by poor higher education institutions. This is certainly a lot of questions that you are thinking about, but I would ask you to mention at least a part of what you can read in the media, and perhaps it is not a very precise reflection of the situation in the scientific research sphere. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Pickalo, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and, of course, thank you very much, Madam Members! There really are a lot of things in this area that we have to do, and I'm going to say, so to speak, do it in sync. And you are right, when you say, on the one hand, the Higher Education Act and on the other hand the Law on Research and Development Activities. If there is something about these two laws that is our goal, it is that they are synchronized, because there is no university without research activity, and one of the things that we want to strengthen in higher education, of course, is a research activity. Without research activities, a short cut of research activities, which are immediately transferred to the educational process on the one hand, and on the other hand, which is also transferred to the development objectives of society, of course there is no such activity. And one of the goals, as it is said, is, if you want to, in the legislative field, to strengthen the research potential of universities, which will, hopefully, translate as soon as possible into development. However, as for the second initiative or other law we intend to amend, namely the Law on Research and Development, I can say that we also have a few goals there, and I would not go beyond all the objectives right now, but I would point out two. On the one hand, it is easier to move researchers into pedagogical status and from pedagogical status to research status, this is in some ways the objective of both laws and, on the other hand, as you yourself said, of ensuring the stability and developmental orientation of the research area. To this end, both laws, including developmental activities and then economic development issues, will have a much simpler and at the same time a much more freer path for so-called secession companies; hence, universities, research institutes and so on, can establish secession companies with their research achievements and thus participate in economic development. However, as far as this so-called financial stability and developmental orientation and scientific research are concerned, I can say that we provide it in principle over three types of activities; one is through an agency that you know too well. So, on the one hand, six-year programmes and on the other hand three-year projects, together with the infrastructure programmes and the assets of the institution, form so-called so-called "sustainable funding of institutions". We have also raised the percentage of funding for research activity this year in the context of budget discussions, as you rightly mentioned, I think the index, I am now referring to, last year, about 104.6. We also want to achieve these strategic objectives of the ministry through research activities, which are the objectives of Europe 2020 and all that is enshrined in the Slovenian research and innovation strategy. Another instrument, as you know – I think in those early times of crisis it was countercyclical and in some ways also a very bold act that turned out to be good – are centres of excellence, competent centres and so on. One hundred and twenty million euro has been invested in these instruments, which constitute a direct link to the economy, and this is what, together with the sheepdogs, together with the support of researchers at the start of their careers, is also part of the story of permanent and but stable funding. Thirdly, it is a supportive environment, a supportive environment that we offer in terms of the network of national contact points for the eighth framework programme or, if you want, Horizon 2020 and everything that is related to it. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. I would continue with the prospect of drawing financial resources from the new financial perspective. But I would ask you: Do you also see any shifts in the fact that Barcelona’s funding targets, investment in research and development, also move towards providing a greater share of private resources from the economy? This is the first part I'd like to ask you on this occasion. Secondly, I would like to ask you that the Council for Science and Technology has expired its mandate and that there is obviously some noise in the communication between the current advisory body of the executive branch and the announcement of the creation of a new world: Is it possible to expect the creation of exactly the kind of world that the resolution, uniform, predicts is for research and innovation? And thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. As far as the Barcelona objectives are concerned, I would not like to be too much of a forecaster, but some statistics show that we are already possible last year, but that we can also achieve this target by 3% this year – investing 3% of GDP in R & D. If I tell you why this might not be so exciting, because on the one hand we are maintaining the level of investment in research and development, and our overall GDP is falling. As a result, we will draw close to or close to this Barcelona goal. I must say that those of us who follow us from the outside because they only see a nuisance, because of this in all these forums or where it is discussed, we are commended, although, I say, it is not exactly what we want to do. As for the new body: yes, we will follow the strategy as set out in the strategy. Besides, it seems to me that the research innovation strategy of Slovenia is the document that is the main strategic document in this area and is not only worth it, but must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. The next is Mr Borut Ambrožič, a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Mr Sam Omerzel's premises. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present. At the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, I am asking the Minister of State a question about the Minister's thinking, or the Ministry of State, as I have roughly defined the issue of state development and poor architectural design of housing. In particular, the question may be: Does the department plan to regulate the issue of state-of-the-art development and the poor architectural image of housing, which is typical of Slovenia? Allow me to explain the reason for this question before the Minister answers. As many of my colleagues generate their questions because of the public interest, I was also encouraged to publish a large article in one of the Slovenian officers, in which I would say that the architectural profession is somehow reawakening after 2007 – which I will also further explain in explanation why I am quoting this year – when an inter-departmental proposal of the Law on Architecture was put into inter-departmental coordination, which sought to resolve open issues that I would like to draw attention to with my question; so I wanted to resolve a wide range of open questions in the field of architecture or the landscape of Slovenia or in general. I am aware that the issue is a big one, perhaps someone will think or say, perhaps the minister too, that the question is therefore too late. At least as far as I'm concerned, it's not my fault, because I'm only a messenger now. However, the fact is that both the lax and the professional public are disgusted, not only in Slovenia but also in many other surrounding countries, when it is found that in this case the legislator does not react to the potential rules that could bring solutions in such a similar order. Perhaps he would also quote the famous architect and lecturer of Professor Reichenberg, who has narrowed his thinking so that the issue of color is only a superficial problem of the global problem. I therefore look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u248	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, thank you for the question. First of all, I'm going to turn to your comment that it might be too late. I believe that it is never too late, especially when it comes to such questions, I think there is a great deal to be done. For this really interesting question and really interesting topic, I thank you. Many Slovenians are asking precisely these questions, such as yourself, in the various objects that we encounter in this space. I am convinced that the policy of space regulation itself, and the construction of buildings, of course, is in this direction, or this is one of the very important objectives, that we want a coherent environment, that we want a structured image in this country. Of course, all the restrictions that come in this sense must be taken into account. It is very important that we be aware of the historical and cultural moments that in some way define the image of this country, as well as the economic effects that in some way also affect what the objects we place in this area are and, of course, all within these powers, which are divided between the State and the local community or communities at this point. At this point it should also be pointed out that when we talk about the assessment of architectural characteristics, this is one moment which is very subjective in nature, and in this area we need to have a very broad view of all different views and also take into account different views. When we talk about competences, it is very important that we are aware that when it comes to prescribing the conditions themselves, it is the state that prescribes what these conditions are, while the original jurisdiction is, of course, on the part of the municipalities when we talk about the substantive part of these conditions – that is, what the objects themselves look like. At this point, I am really happy to have this question, because at this point we are in the process of renovating the whole process when we are talking about regulating the premises and building the buildings, and on the other hand also legislation, and we will be happy to take this aspect into account, to look at what are the optimal solutions and to consult with the profession in this direction. However, I would like to conclude, first of all, in this direction, that when we talk about the compatibility of facilities and spaces, very much awareness is left to us as well as to citizens who invest in our homes, as are those investors who are building demanding buildings in this country. I think that, in particular, all of us, as the Ministry of the Interior in this policy, all Slovenians and all investors, and in the first phase of the profession, must work together in this direction to raise the level of this awareness, and that we are actually all working together to ensure that the facilities that will be set up in this area, in this country, do indeed go in this direction of compliance, to take into account all the circumstances of the space to which this facility is located, and that this facility is consistent with the rest of what is in this space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u250	In fact, I wanted to thank the Minister for an encouraging response. I hope that, in the coming months or years, this path will indeed be a professional one, along with the legislator, either in accordance with it or in parallel. As an example of good practice, at least as far as the colour scales are concerned, it is possible to highlight the example of Nova Gorica municipality, which, as the minister himself said, with a local initiative, could say possible socially responsible, somehow already started with this thinking, which is appropriate to apply, according to the tradition and cultural characteristics of this place, to the facades of objects. Little joke, I really thought years ago that the reason for such a written landscape in Slovenia is the price of these screaming colors. But as far as I know, it's the other way around. It is therefore possible that the role of the legislator may be to give a gentle warning to all of us about what we can put into space. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Diana jeedan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, on 15 November 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for the protection of the environment, which sets out the way in which drinking water supply prices are developed, the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal and waterfall waste water and the management of municipal waste. The new price shall be determined via the laboratory whose composition is laid down in the Regulation. One of the Elaborate points is also a comparison of the proposed prices to prices in comparable areas. This makes it possible to compare prices in a congregation with prices in comparable congregations. In this way, citizens can compare the services and prices of economic public services, which can also make it easier to compare and evaluate the work of the mayor and the municipal council in terms of whether they act in the interest of citizens and citizens or perhaps in any other interest. The transitional provisions provide that the Ministry must establish comparable areas and also average prices in those areas within 12 months of the Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. In 2013, it is said that the deadline for the establishment of a group of comparable areas expired last year. How are you progressing with this work and when will these useful data be available to all citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens? In short, the regulation has been in force for about a year: Have you encountered any difficulties in complying with this Regulation? Are you suggesting any changes? How are you satisfied with this Regulation and the implementation of this Regulation in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u254	Dear Member, thank you for asking. As you rightly stated, on the basis of the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal public environmental protection services, it is necessary to establish groups of comparable areas and for each comparable area to calculate the average validated calculated and charged price and then calculate these average values separately for public infrastructure and for the price of the public service. The Ministry has already prepared data for the establishment of comparable areas which, according to the provisions of the Regulations, must be based on the geographical, settlement and supply characteristics of the areas. Data for the calculation of average values and data for the establishment of comparable areas were obtained by the Ministry on the basis of the reporting of public economic service operators reporting to the system of public environmental service operators, which is also available on the website. Comparable areas and average prices are calculated in cooperation with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development and the main problem, which is also the reason for the delay so far, is the lack of quality of performance reporting. The main cause of the delay is also mentioned, and unfortunately not all congregations will be able to be covered in the first analysis for the same reason. However, I expect that the calculation will be completed at the latest in early February, which is now, for all of these public services, namely: the processing of certain types of municipal waste and the disposal of municipal waste residues or disposal, the supply of drinking water, the collection of certain types of municipal waste and the disposal and treatment of municipal and padavian waste water. As soon as this calculation is made available to me, we intend to send it to interested associations of municipalities and public service providers and, if there is no major opposition, we plan to publish the results in March 2014 at the latest. Finally, the public publication of the results will allow the elaborations carried out by individual public services for municipal structures, which are originally competent to determine the price at the final stage, so that they can also take into account comparable data across regions based on Slovenia. So, let me tell you again. The data are essentially prepared and are expected to be transmitted to interested parties in early February, such as local communities and public service operators. It is appropriate to give them a few weeks of time to react if they detect any shortcomings and then make it official by publishing them; and this will be expected in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thanks for the answer. Just to be perfectly clear, we can expect to identify these comparable areas at the beginning of February, which are then also used in price-setting laboratories. However, I would like to ask another question here: Article 5 of this Regulation provides that the price is to be fixed by an elaboratory and submitted for approval to the competent municipal authority; it is usually the municipal council. Can we understand that the municipal council should be provided with an elaboratory to confirm the price, or is it enough to submit only a price based on an elaborate, which is then, say, a secret document? What's your opinion on this? Is it permissible for the congregation council to confirm the price without having to submit an elaboratory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u258	Your Honor! As it is a public database for public economic services operated by mostly publicly owned companies, i.e. owned by individual local communities or associations of local communities, it is clear that we expect calculations to be presented as well as a comparison to the reference values for Slovenia. But allow me to answer a few more questions that might have been questioned. Often these days the question arose as to whether, through a government regulation, we should prescribe a single price for municipal services, one way or another, by country. Personally, I am very opposed to this, as this would also mean socialisation of non-economic behaviour where it was present. We probably can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u259	Thank you very much. With this we have completed the first round of questions and are moving on to the second round, in which Mr Janez Ribič will first raise the question to the Minister for Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The municipality of Maribor announced last October a project to rebuild the eastern part of Maribor Castle on the third public tender of the Ministry of Culture for Development Investment in Public Infrastructure. Among the 57 projects reported, the Commission selected 6 projects. The results were published on 17 December 2013. The Maribor project was ranked third among the selected projects with 85 points, and 6 days later the Ministry issued a decision rejecting the role of Maribor Municipality in co-financing the project because the estimated number of points for the project was only 75 points. Mr. Secretary, I therefore ask you: Why have you influenced or changed the decisions of the Commission? Another time. For the media, your ministry has explained that the Maribor Municipality will be able to find new possibilities for completion of the reconstruction in the near future. What exactly did you mean by that? Do you not think that you have seriously exceeded your powers as this project is included in the National Culture Programme 2014-2017 and is one of the value projects of municipalities that go beyond local importance? The municipality of Maribor opened an administrative dispute over the lack of funds. What will you do if the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia decides in favour of the Municipality of Maribor? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u262	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable assembly of all five Members Thank you very much for the question. Let me immediately point out that, in my work at the Ministry, I have consistently held the view that the decisions made by the expert commissions do not change. I am following this and you have also read in the media in various procedures to finance public cultural programmes, cultural projects, whether it is decisions on the appointment or resolution of directors of public institutions, and I have consistently advocated this view on the issue of Prešern's prizes. Moreover, just before the end of the year, Members of Parliament adopted a new bill on culture, where, on my proposal, it was expressly laid down that the Minister no longer has discretionary rights, but must follow closely the proposals of the expert commission in his decisions. Of course, it may require an appropriate explanation, but it cannot in any way decide otherwise. As we have already explained, I am very sorry that there has been a complication in this invitation to tender, and in our work it is sometimes in such a way that we must also acknowledge mistakes. In this case, the Ministry made two mistakes, two obvious mistakes. Firstly, the results of the invitation to tender were published before these results even became results. Prioritisation of the notified projects was published before the signed selection decisions were even signed and these decisions were fully in force. In fact, this error was even worse, it was found that the expert commission which assessed the applications was completely wrong, obviously wrong, assessed one of the criteria, namely the multiplier effect of the project on the development of the wider environment in the segment of the impact of the project on the development of culture as a development factor of the municipality, the region. It assessed it completely unevenly, flawedly, on the basis of the mathematical formula for increasing the number of visitors in a particular project, but not substantively, which is the only criterion. At the Ministry we found this error in initialling decisions on co-financing decisions or rejections of co-financing. We found him through reviews at the Financial, Legal and General Secretariat. When I was aware of this, I called on the expert committee to examine exactly what and how the expert committee was doing. The expert committee itself found out and agreed to make a mistake. To say plastic; if the first criterion, which is very substantive and speaks of the project as improving the conditions for the activity of existing activities in the framework of the projects notified, is that the next segment of the criterion is the integration of different areas of cultural creation and that the last, highest segment of this criterion is the introduction of new trends in cultural creativity, then it is clear that this criterion cannot be based on a mathematical formula. We also looked at the other criteria and found that there were no such errors, as the remaining criteria were clear and assessed according to clearly demonstrated evidence as requested by the tender documentation; for example, statements of cooperation with cultural institutions, cooperation with the economic sector, completion of the project, deadlines for completion of the project, commitments by applicants, for example, regarding new jobs. I have therefore ordered the Commission to review the applications and to give them appropriate points, in accordance with the criteria which are clearly based on the invitation to tender published. In view of the findings on the uneven use of the criteria, the Commission has once again scored all the incoming applications and, of course, the new scoring has changed the order of the projects. Three projects, which were put into funding in the published results, fell out of it, three were subsequently put in place. On the question of the National Programme for Culture. At the time of the publication of the invitation to tender, this could not have been an appropriate legal act since it had not yet been adopted. I regret that, on the basis of the invitation to tender adopted by the National Programme for Culture, we could make it much more targeted, much more consistent with the cultural policy that we are pursuing. In view of the issue of the administrative dispute, point out that the current conclusions are such that, in my opinion, they will, of course, survive the administrative dispute. In any case, we will respect the court's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Grilledz. Would you like another word, Mr. Fish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you. Now you're answering one, but you're doing the other. How could the results have been published before it was decided? Based on what did someone report, as reported? I think it's kind of misleading. However, I would like to say that, at the moment, or in my opinion, it is the largest centralisation in Slovenia's independent state. In all areas! But in the field of culture, I feel the most. If I can remember. What our Maribor theater is! I don't know if you've ever gone to see what kind of situation employees are working in. I would like you to be aware that you must become Minister of all Slovenians, not just Ljubljana. This transfer of money back from Maribor to Ljubljana, I must say that all condemnation is worth it. I'm asking who's so powerful that they can change their decision overnight. I have to say I'm worried and I'm scared. In particular, because our Member, Mrs Potter, as chairman of the Committee, does not condemn such action. If we are so far away, I hope that it has the whole area under good control and nothing happens, it can in some way be a new affair in this government. You were Director of the Department of Culture in the Municipality of Ljubljana, from where you came to the Ministry of Culture. You were the founder of the Lutkov Museum in Ljubljana Castle, for which you should now spend this money, which has been diverted back to Ljubljana. You should at least be excluded from the procedure in this case. But that's what other people should be about. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u265	So much for this one. Mr. Dr. Grills, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u266	Your Honor, thank you very much. I also wonder how it can be that what happened happened in the ministry, which is known for its very precise, very transparent conduct of procedures. I also had to act and properly sanction the competent staff. That's a fact. At the same time, I must point out that the evidence of centralisation is rather unusual. Within the framework of the National Programme for Culture, we have established an extremely constructive and substantive dialogue with the municipalities. You know that you Members have adopted a National Programme for Culture, which includes increasing and important investment in cultural infrastructure and in local monuments of national importance, which go beyond the mere municipal level. Moreover, in 2013 the Ministry of Culture implemented a number of very important support via public invitations to tender to local communities. Let me mention the Cultural Home of Montenegro in Koroškem, the Cultural Home of Gornji Petrovci, the House of Culture of Razkrižje, the Chapel of St. Florjana, owned by the municipality of Ljutomer. Let me mention all those investments in local monuments: Kozano – Ambitent houses Kozana, Brežice – old primary school, Dvor pri Polhove Gradc, Šentjošt nad Horjul, Kamnik – house Novi trg, Koper, Kostanjevica na Krka, Brdo pri Kranj and so on not to mention. And of course also houses Maribor, Koroška 2 and Koroška 4 which are both monuments of local importance, Zgornji Tuštanj, Portorož – storage of salt, Solčava – church of Marija Snezne, Vitanje – church of St. Petra and Pavla, Limberg at Novi Gorica, Limberg Castle and so on. Where's Ljubljana? Ljubljana ran on the last call with four projects and came with one of the six highest rated projects, next to Piran, next to Šmarješke Toplice, next to Krske, next to Šentjur, as I mentioned. I think only what I've said is that we can't talk about culture in any way about centralisation. As you stated, I was the CEO, that I was the founder, neither holds the terminological nor the actual. However, with the National Programme for Culture, we have clearly drawn up where the priorities in the investment field are in the future, and we will also follow this through public calls. I believe that given the strong involvement of Maribor in the National Programme with numerous projects, from the art gallery, from the bakery, library and also from the provincial museum, we will find appropriate support, particularly within the framework of European funds. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u268	On the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly on the evaluation of individual projects, on commissions, on the evaluation of the eligibility of each project and so on. I would also like to have: Can you give me a written explanation of the errors and points of all applications and justify them? Actually, there's a lot of interest in these things. I would like to say that in my 17-year internship, we have always applied for invitations to rebuild cultural homes, but we have never been chosen. 17 years, never! There was always a point or a half missing that the funds were allocated to someone else. Of course, I also want to know: Did you make a proposal to retain these funds? If the Municipality of Maribor receives an administrative dispute over the lack of funds, the funds will already be used: What are you going to do in this case? I know that you cannot answer now, so it would be good to have a debate in the National Assembly, not only on a specific case, but also on these calls, on this point. For all those who come from the other end to this center of Slovenia, we feel that we are somehow always transported across the water, but with a clear eye you can see the difference between the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana, as well as between individual areas and municipalities. It is therefore right to discuss these matters in the National Assembly, so I expect you to support Members and Members of the coalition tomorrow when we vote to have such a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr Ribič, for your proposal, which, as you can see, will be decided in the framework of the votes. The question for the Minister for the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, is Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister! Mr Minister, when you spoke enthusiastically about how you would reduce the number of municipalities, the journalist also asked you whether you would take any funds from the municipalities when saving policies, but you said that no, that the municipalities would not be taken because they needed to make various investments. But it's not like that. I believe you will say that the municipalities must share the fate of the other country, but let me tell you that in the Budget Implementation Act, you have already taken 2014 or halved investment funds under the 21st Article, which have been distributed on the basis of the Development Hazard Index, so to speak, to more and less developed municipalities. And for 2015, you're putting an end to this. Let me say that for some municipalities this represents quite a percentage of all revenue, such as the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica 9.2 %, Bovec 19.3 %, Solčava 23, for larger municipalities such as the Municipality of Ljubljana, only 0.4 %, Trzin 0.6 %, Šempeter, Vrtojba 0.9 %. This is said to be taking more developmentally weak congregations and leaving more developed congregations. In addition, there is a property tax where municipalities only receive back as much as the NUSZ has collected; we know that rural municipalities have less collected NUSZ, but they have to pay tax for their buildings and in many rural municipalities they will receive only 20% of what citizens will pay for property taxes. Only 20% was supposed to come back. In addition, the Law on the Financing of Municipalities is being prepared, a new law which also favours more densely populated municipalities and fewer those with larger areas, more infrastructure, in particular [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I want to know: Why did you let that happen, Minister? At that time, you yourself said that there were so many congregation projects and such tasks that these funds were urgently needed. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u271	Thank you so much for asking. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Today this is the only question addressed to me, from which I conclude that the opposition is also becoming pleased with my work, and what you have asked me is essentially a question for the Minister of Finance, because it concerns the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and not the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which is within my purview; but no matter what. Before long, I was asked the question whether we would change the Law on Community Financing in this direction in order to reduce funds for municipalities, specifically appropriate spending. I said no, and I stuck to it. We have not changed this law, we have not proposed any such solution, and even now we do not plan to do so. So that if you have any information about this, it is not correct, we will not change the ZFO in this direction in order to reduce any appropriate consumption for the congregations. However, there will be a more comprehensive reform of the community funding system after we see the impact of the property tax on Slovenian municipalities. In general, however, a comprehensive reform of the community funding system will be necessary, which has proved to be not the best. We have analyses showing that some municipalities are financially malnourished and some are financially privileged. If we were to draw some correlations here, we could say that smaller municipalities are financially in a better position than larger municipalities, but especially in a poor situation those municipalities that have many children for kindergartens and compulsory children because kindergartens and primary schools are the highest cost and these municipalities are financially very, very well fed. As regards the co-financing of investments, these funds were set at 6 % in the Community Financing Act as a target state. As early as 2007 and 2008, this was 3% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities, and then the plan was to increase in the coming years so that in 2011 5% would be 6%. But then, of course, the economic crisis hit and that percentage had to be adjusted. The first adjustment was made in 2011 when this was reduced to 4% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities and reduced to 2% of the total appropriate consumption of municipalities in 2014 and 2015. As you have already found, in these funds, as on many other items, the state budget has to be adjusted to the reality, although for the one who then gets less, of course this is not at all pleasant. It should be stressed, however, that these are not the only state funds for co-financing municipal investments; here are the funds allocated by individual ministries on calls, and here are the funds from the state budget for co-financing those investments where municipalities acquire the resources of the structural and cohesion policies of the European Union. The state here jumps with its share to co-finance so-called own participation. However, if we compare how the budgets of the municipalities and the budgets of the country have moved over the last period, we can find that from 2008 to 2013, the index of the State budget is only 91 %, it is said that the state budget has fallen significantly during this period, while the index of municipal budgets for the same period is 107 %, which means that municipal budgets have increased significantly compared to other public treasury budgets during that period. I do not want to plant flowers, that the situation is favourable for the municipalities because it is not. Surely everyone would be more pleased if there were more money to co-finance investments, but the reality is that right now. We all hope and expect that economic growth will start at the end of this year, that next year we will have economic growth and then, of course, we will be able to think again about increasing the share of these funds for investments in municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u274	Minister, already, but before that, my colleague, Židan, said that he was not responsible for certain answers, that it was from the Minister of Finance. But you are the Ministry of Local Self-Government and in the Constitution all legislation relating to local self-government must also be adopted so that local self-government is aware and participates. The national associations we have, and you are the one who should defend the interest of the municipalities in the government. Let me also say that at the property tax, as you mentioned earlier, it will be necessary to see what the effects will be, in advance to tell you that the fact that the State collects the property tax for 3 years and returns the amount that it has previously collected with the NUSZ is very unfair. For example, the municipality of Velenje collected about 7 million NUSZ and the tax would collect 4 million. It would have a tax return of half — 2 million — and now it will have 6 million and a half because of the tax that must be paid for its assets. So now it will get back from the country more than once more than citizens will pay the tax. But not from the country, but from those rural congregations that will collect significantly more than they will now get back. That's unfair and that's three years in these years of crisis! Those funds, which you mentioned earlier, that the State will give to cohesion funds from the budget, let me tell you that it has to prepare projects already in place for the municipality, building permits, that it already has costs and that it has its own resources, otherwise these funds are no good to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u275	Would you like another word, Dr. Virant?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u276	I wouldn't go down in a real estate tax debate. That's really something I'm leaving to my colleague, Minister Cuffer. With regard to the reduction of investment funds, I told you, I will not make any excuses, nor in the Government myself, because I knew that the Ministry of Finance had to draw up a budget for 2014 and 2015 in order to follow the plan of fiscal consolidation, it is said that the deficit would go down. We must address the deficit of the state budget, because if we do not do so, we know that every deficit is financed by debt. The higher the public debt, the more interest we pay, and I think we all agree together that we must break this vicious circle. That we need to gradually balance the budget and start reducing public debt – in this way, by balancing the budget – by selling state assets. Here I think we are in relative positions, so that in the coming years we will be less burdened by public finances with interest. If you look at it, this year we're only going to pay one billion dollars for interest. If they were not so indebted, they would have a balanced budget without interest. Or if we had the same deficit, we could spend one billion more on a variety of other things: education, health care, investment, bridges, and everything else. So that's how it is. We are now in a period of time when we are all together – a policy currently in power and also in opposition – in fact, our primary responsibility is to reduce this heavy debt. Therefore, we need to keep an eye on the shortcomings outlined. Among other things, this meant the freezing of pensions, including the freezing of social transfers, which included a reduction in public sector wages. We all know that, and unfortunately, the congregations have received it. As I said before, if we have economic growth – and I think we can all optimistically believe that we will get it back so that the economy will start to grow – and we can also think about more investment in municipalities. But there's another thing that seems important to me. We have agreed with the representative associations of the municipalities to submit to us all their proposals for amendments to laws and regulations that would simplify their operations and reduce costs where they are unnecessary. Let’s say that the congregation needs to change the water meter for five years, which has a 10 - year warranty. There's only one stupid thing I've mentioned, but there's a lot of it. Now we're going to collect this and then we're going to have every department in their area take action and clean it up in due course.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u278	There are some things I agree with you, but we also need to draw on European funds, and it would be the most foolish thing to leave a billion of our resources in Europe. Many projects, these projects have been prepared by municipalities, they even have a building permit, they have even selected contractors, and they also have their own resources in the 2014 budget. The budgets were adopted last year, and now they have to execute the rebalancies in the budget, reduce these funds, and note that they will not be able to provide these own funds, and that you probably thought about that at the time when you said that nothing would be taken from the municipalities. Here are the problems, as well as the Government or the Ministry, as intermediate bodies, have identified in their field that the municipalities guarantee that it will be difficult to provide their own resources, that in this financial perspective 2014 and 2015, when you are taking these funds, these projects will be implemented and paid back. In this great problem, and as far as I know, the ministry will also call on all congregations to count. I think there's gonna be even more damage here than taking a couple of million here, and that leaves a billion. I think we should take a look at this. I agree, however, that these problems faced by municipalities – I was 13 years old, but I know that 30% of bureaucratic things are completely overrun by municipalities and that a lot more smart work would be done at a time when municipal workers carry out various reports and records, which tend to double at least for the sake of some officials. I agree, but I think that the municipalities are the ones who do a lot for development: they prepare the basis for economic development, industrial zones, development centres, they have projects ready, and they don't have the money to provide them with communal equipment. With state infrastructure projects, there is certainly no such effect and there are no permanent jobs; they are only temporary for the time when this investment is carried out in practice. Hence, he feels that it is unwise to take money away from those who — now acknowledged — have done the most economically with this money and have done the most. In addition, the country has promised Europe to clean up waste water by 2017 in order to build waste management centres. The projects are ready, and the money will not be implemented for this – and who will end up paying the penalty? Probably not the state, but the users, the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. We understand that you would like to suggest that we discuss the Minister's response. This will be decided in the context of the vote tomorrow. Now it's Mr. Andrej Chuš's turn. Question for Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Good evening to all present, Mr. Secretary! The Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017 advocates or advocates for a quality and diverse media landscape. Since you are likely to have carried out an analysis of the market situation before the preparation of the strategy and before the amendments to the media legislation, as all other European countries have done, and on the basis of which you have decided to amend the legislation, I would ask you for some of the information normally contained in such analyses. In fact, the proposal you published was not accompanied by this analysis. So I'd like to ask you some answers to some questions: Where did the Ministry of Culture, for example, publish an analysis of the situation in Slovenian media? If the analysis is not published: Why is it not published, and where can it be found? But if the analysis isn't done at all: Then why is the Ministry preparing changes to legislation if the current state of the Slovenian media is not known at all? Given the fact that we want to know what it means to know this or to know the situation in Slovenian media, we should know at least the following areas: How many journalists are regularly employed in national media? How many journalists are employed in local media? What's the average net pay for a journalist? How many journalists are working over S.P. in individual media industries? How much of the audience or viewers have a local status of special importance? How much money does a month's local media need to be able to carry out their mission at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u282	Dear Member, thank you very much for the very important questions that I must say are coming a little premature. In the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, which was practically adopted by all the votes of the National Assembly at the end of 2013, we announced a comprehensive revision of the media legislation, both the Media Law and the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which will be based on a national strategy, a strategic analysis document which will also provide guidance on the development of the media landscape in Slovenia, and set the deadline for the implementation of those objectives in 2014. Please note that such analyses have not been carried out so far, but it is true that the national programme includes several of the data you are asking about among its indicators, both on media professionals and on the number and structure of the media of particular importance. These are the indicators that already allow to monitor the situation in Slovenia's media landscape. At the Ministry of Culture in recent months, we have been intensively collecting relevant statistics on the media, and of course we do not have all of them collected. As long as we don't have a complete analysis completed, we can't make it public either. With regard to these data, it should also be mentioned that the Ministry can only obtain information which is publicly available, which is part of the public records or which has an appropriate legal basis. For example, the information you ask in your question about advertising media revenues is largely a business secret, so their disclosure is only a matter of good will for companies in which the media are organised. As regards the calculation of, for example, the threshold of profitability for individual media types and the cost of producing individual content, it should also be stressed that, in accordance with the right to free economic initiative, such issues are within the competence of exclusively media publishers or their owners. The Ministry must, of course, provide an appropriate legal framework for the exercise of freedom of expression and the realization of public interest in the field of the media. In your question, you also refer to the individual provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, as regards the self-regulatory/regulatory area and the i-2010 initiative. In this regard, I should explain that this Directive concerns only one part of the media area, namely the regulation of television programmes or audiovisual media services, and that this Directive has already been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of the Audiovisual Media Services Act since the end of 2011. The objectives of this Directive, which relate in particular to the free dissemination of television programmes, the regulation of television advertising, the promotion and protection of European AV works, the protection of children in monitoring television programmes and the enhancement of accessibility and social inclusion for vulnerable social groups, are therefore already being implemented. The area of self-regulatory or co-regulatory has been present in the Slovenian media space for some time. This field of advertising is governed by the legal source of the Slovenian Advertising Code and the ethical standards in the media are governed by the Slovenian Press Code. However, in the field of audiovisual commercial communications in software content for children, the provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Act are in force, and all audiovisual media service providers are obliged to establish rules of conduct that must also be in line with, for example, the food guidelines adopted by the Ministry of Health. Notwithstanding the above, the objectives of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive or the 2010 Initiative’s objectives are also not directly applicable to other media areas, due to their specificity. The initiative is part of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which aims at getting out of the economic crisis. The main objectives of this strategy are to increase employment, economic growth, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase digital capacity, media literacy. Yes, even the media part and the National Programme for Culture have created those goals that will contribute to the achievement of [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in particular with regard to staff and media literacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you for the first part of the answer. I may have focused on just journalism before, but I'm still curious: Is it possible that the Ministry of Culture can have data on the total number of employees in Slovenian media, whether in the daily press, TV stations or radio stations? As I was able to understand, this year this analysis or the state of the Slovenian media did not take place, but I am interested: Are you going to do it in the next few weeks or months? Is it possible for the Ministry of Culture to make at least some effort or attempt to establish communication with the media? Did you send anyone a questionnaire? But if I just touch the strategy, I'm just wondering: Will the strategy also focus on growth and promotion in the media industry? As far as I can understand from your answers so far, do I feel that marriage will be more than just written in my mind? How, then, can we provide decent working conditions if we do not know the situation at all? At the same time, I would ask you not to try to use this data when summarise media data on how many media there are, but at the end of the day, there are a lot of media that are only on paper today because, unfortunately, many do not work. If someone's operating on such data, it might be a little funny to take this information as a basis for marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. Dr. Grills, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u286	Once again, you can find most of this information in the National Programme for Culture. In the entire area of culture, according to the Statistical Office, there are 23,000 employees, some 11,000 in the media itself, 37 programmes of special importance, and thousands of 700 media are included in the media, you know. 250 journalists are included in the independent press. I must say that this situation, which we do know well, is worse than we know the economic side of the media, and the media are part of a free economic initiative, mostly when we subtract national television, and in this part we have a review of the media market so that we cannot be satisfied. The fact is, however, that media legislation focuses on much more complex issues concerning all media, not just television programmes, not just audiovisual media services, so the forecast is to define public interest in the media field as a new one, to adapt plurality and diversity in the digital media environment to the time we live, to redefine the role of public broadcasting and programmes of particular importance, and to address the concept of editorial responsibility in connection with online media, to the issue of regulating hate speech in the media and so on, issues that need to be addressed in line with the needs of time. The current media legislation, which has been emerging from somewhere since 2001 and has been more seriously amended in 2006, simply does not answer these questions anymore. And of course, of course, I point out the sensitivity to the issue of the position of journalists. In a rapidly changing media environment, there are questions about how media houses are organised, including questions that some new forms, such as media cooperatives, resolve in a rather interesting way, and this is certainly worth supporting. As part of improving the social status of self-employed people in culture, we also mean young journalists, promising journalists, of course. It is very important that, if we want to encourage research journalism, if we want to improve the quality and diversity of the media landscape over a long period of time, the position of the journalist is at the heart of this. But the fact is, once again, I stress that the media [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Dr. Grillz. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u288	Dear Mr. Secretary! Given that I think that in many of the areas you cover, you know a lot of information, data, it would still be worth considering if you did not undertake some analysis of the Slovenian media landscape. Because if we're going to write amendments to legislation, like the Media Act, in mind, then I don't know what we're going to discuss. Perhaps I would appeal to the Ministry of Culture to make some more effort, perhaps to some analysis of the situation – even if a kind e-mail or a call is sent, I believe that there will be great readiness for dialogue on the part of others. How can we, for example, handle decent media conditions if we do not know the situation at all? For example, it's like buying a new passenger plane, and we don't even know if we're going to have two, four, six or three hundred passengers. In our country, we are doing a lot of work, unfortunately, it is the taxpayers who are paying for these decisions that have been made in mind. To write a law on the media without knowing the situation is to throw sand in the eyes and money through the window, so I would like to request that we hold a discussion at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Whether we hold a debate or not, we will vote in the framework of the vote tomorrow. Mr Borut Ambrožič, who has a question for the absent Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u290	Thank you for the words of the chairman, a nice greeting to all present. To the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark, I address the following question: Does the Ministry of State intend to launch a strategy for quality ageing, solidarity and co-existence in Slovenia in 2014? I have defined the issue on the basis of existing strategies, which have already occurred on this extremely important demographic content in the past, but now, at least after publicly available information, I do not have this information. Does the Ministry, which is most called for this content, also think about this strategy, as do we have strategies for other important social issues? In this regard, there is also an explanation of my question, as the demographic data, which are also publicly available on the basis of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and other publicly available sources, shows that Slovenian society, like many others, has become a so-called ageing society. The first data that shows this fact is already the number of inactive sections of the population, or pensioners, that are already going strong over 500 000, as well as longer lifespans, which brings along a number of social, social and economic issues; and from the issue of pension legislation and even social relations to the ageing population in general. In this sense, as I say, I refer the above questions to the Minister and therefore expect, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an oral reply to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. The final question of today's issue is that of Master Majda Potrate to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members! It has already been said that we have adopted the National Programme for Culture with a single vote against the great consensus. Shortly after this express agreement, a new topic entered the Slovenian media space, the topic of events on the Slovenian cultural market. The question of the cultural market is also related to art, music art, and, indirectly, to the Youth Book, it is said to be publishing and bookkeeping, and it would also find more questions that could be answered; but, Mr. Minister, I am only interested in this path because it was actually the most articulated: which activities are carried out or planned by the Ministry of Culture to improve the position of Slovenian music creators and performers. When I talk about articulation, of course I am referring to the review of the state of the cultural market in the Republic of Slovenia, to the material that has also been discussed at the meeting of the National Council for Culture, and I am convinced that with some recommendation that the Committee on Culture also address this issue in the future. And I want to know: How do you see these questions, which I see ambivalently? On the one hand, we like to talk about the importance of culture for Slovenian identity, but when we talk about the situation of creators and performers, who have to taste on their skin how much as citizens and citizens or consumers of cultural services we are prepared to finance, this position is probably more in favour of cutting costs first. I refer to the statistics of the Bureau of Statistics, the biggest decline in resources is unfortunately in the cumulative data of recreation and culture, there is a decline in resources compared to 2010, but data is for 2012, which is 2.5% of the family budget – average, of course. So the question is true in my opinion, I think it is very extensive, but I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u294	Dear Mrs. Potrata, thank you very much for the question and thank you very much for the concern about the situation of Slovenian music creators and performers, as well as also, of course, regarding the situation of Slovenian cultural people, who at this moment, given the tight budgetary options and the declining consumption power, are certainly not in such a position to envy them. Let me add some more information on what you said. Our musical landscape is extremely varied, extremely diverse and of great quality. In 2010, approximately 3,000 500 concert events were performed throughout the country at 170 registered venues where this activity takes place as regularly as possible. This musical event was witnessed by a million.180 thousand visitors. This is a data for 2010; unfortunately, in the following years, according to the SURS data, there is a particularly significant decline in the visit, with an estimated 20 to 30% less than the visit. What does this mean for the position of music creators and for the position of the music industry, of course, we can imagine. In the Resolution of the National Programme for Culture, we have thus set ourselves two key objectives in the field of music, which are directly aimed at improving the position of creators. First, the position of the musician and ballet player and secondly, the strengthening of the music market. True, today we can no longer rely on budgetary resources in culture alone. We know that the majority of Slovenian culture, those linked to quality, to diversity, is vitally dependent on these resources. However, there are, of course, opportunities for us to reactivate certain funds in areas where the country may not have intervened with such and other measures so far. One way is to reach out to the music markets. In recent months, we have also joined in implementing which very concrete measures are being implemented in the context of public calls for co-financing of cultural programmes and projects in the coming period. In preparation, however, there is an extremely important public call for co-financing of cultural projects in 2014, which will be published in February. In the latter, I would particularly like to point out that we are committed to co-financing the music editions of Slovenian music artists and performers in order to devote ourselves to supporting the author projects of Slovenian music artists and work scholarships for self-employed people in the music arts culture. While this year, almost 1.6 million funds are allocated to the field of music, which is, of course, quite a few percent less than in the previous year. However, it is extremely important that we also provide a million euro of European funds this year to support the employment and empowerment of young people and on the basis of which we will achieve one of the important objectives of the National Programme for Culture, namely the establishment of an ensemble of young ballet dancers. I believe the applicants in this part will be successful. However, if we are talking about systemic changes, then I must point out that the ministry has been extremely active in the field of copyright and related rights over the past period, that we are actively involved in the drafting of a new law that falls within the relevant hours, and that this is, of course, one of those options where we can count on an important extra-budgetary resource for Slovenian music. The purpose of the new law is to establish a so-called promotional fund to ensure that part of the funds collected for the use of copyright are transparently reinvested in the development of music creativity and creativity. This legal framework will also be the basis for the operation of the Slovenian music office, which will take care of the preservation, development, international promotion of Slovenian music – another objective of the National Programme for Culture. Let me not forget: changing media legislation, changing the proportion of mandatory Slovenian music quotas, not only in the middle of the night and other impossible hours, but of course in those terms that are appropriate, are the legal frameworks where the position of Slovenian musicians and Slovenian music can be better regulated in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u296	Thank you. Thank you for that part of the answer. However, I would like to ask about the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which you have said is, in most ways, subject to the Ministry of the Economy. Not only have musicians who have had many initiatives and who themselves know how difficult it is to coordinate different interests with regard to this law, but others, particularly the Association of Slovenian Writers, see a greater understanding or opportunity to better reconcile different interests if the Ministry of Culture, not so much as the Ministry of the Economy, is the key ministry in preparing this law. Although I myself am aware that culture is one that contributes significantly more to the budget than we are prepared to think. Recently, data have been published on how many libraries contribute, at least one local library has received such data. Musicians referred to the findings in Iceland or Finland and France. Just for example, you were at that meeting when Dr. Zoran Bozič, state councilman, said that French culture contributed €58 billion to the French budget, of course, to GDP, GDP should be said, and agriculture, for example, 60 billion. These are amazing numbers and looking at culture exclusively as a consumer of public funds is impossible, just as it is impossible to leave the Slovenian culture alone to the market of self-initiative. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I can only agree with your words. I must say that the ministry has not been very active in the drafting of relevant copyright legislation in the past period. This is what we are now changing, we are really very active, last week we hosted a very wide round table on the initiative of musicians, which was fully dedicated to the creation of new media legislation and the detection of certain problems both in the Copyright and Related Rights Act and in the implementation of certain provisions arising from the media law, in particular those relating to the share of original creativity in the field of audiovisual culture in national and commercial television. I think that, of course, we have come to the conclusion that only dialogue with a very wide range of creators, with collective organisations operating in this area and with the relevant producers can ultimately lead to such solutions of the law that will be acceptable, that will be forward-looking and that will also be feasible; in short, which will also be subject to full control. On the basis of these discussions, I must conclude that this is not the case today. Tomorrow, for example, here across the street, the Gloss syndicate organizes a very similar round table on the subject of copyright, which we also participate in. I am sure that, in the end, we will make a new law with some appropriate consensus within the profession in order to develop original creativity and that it will also represent an important income, in a transparent way distributed to music creators. They're the ones who create these content. Of course, we defend the view that it is necessary to take a more cautious and comprehensive approach to all those activities that also operate on the market. The Single Price Act, for example, does so in the field of the book, but does not give any excuse to the State that it does not lead active policy to the field of the book within the other measures. It's like music. Public institutions are those that play an important role in this area. All professional ensembles. The proportion of the activities of NGOs in the field of music is extremely important. We must also not forget the amateur cultural activity that contributes to the lion's share of the music offer. Independent creators, as you know, by amending the ZUIK, we have put in place some new instruments, and on 31 January we are also actually starting to apply the first instrument of the cultural pocket. We expect considerable interest. And the second part; we must be brave and you Members must be brave in changing legislation, which nevertheless regulates the way individual cultural markets operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-27-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Minister. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. With this, we have exhausted all of today's questions, gone to the end of the point, and am adjourning today's 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
