ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Janja Sluga from 12 to 16:00, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Miha Kordišek, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Marijan Pojbič and Dr Matej T. Vatovec until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 7th A-point of the agenda, which is to propose a bill on measures in the area of wages and other costs of work in the public sector for 2015. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government; to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished Members! Allow me to give a brief explanation of the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs, which is the continuation of the process of negotiating with trade unions regarding the reduction of labour costs in the public sector. The basis for this law is the agreement signed by the majority of the representative public sector unions, 29 of the 38 unions with recognised representativeness. The measures provided for in this agreement are partly implemented in the law that we are proposing today, partly in the law on the implementation of the budget, and some of the measures will also be reflected in the changes to collective agreements for non-economic activities. It is important to stress that this law and other acts, which will be amended under this agreement, allow for the extension of the agreed measures in force for 2014 estimated at around 313 million reductions in wage costs; and the additional around 39 million, which are the result of these agreements that took place for 2015. The content adopted in the agreement relates in particular to the extension of the validity of the reduction in the salary scale, the non-alignment of the value of wage classes and the level of other remuneration or remuneration in respect of labour costs, the non-payment of regular work performance in 2015 as well, the reduced payment of the annual leave fee also in 2015 and the limited payment of work performance on the basis of the increased volume of work. In addition, measures are agreed to reduce the amount of resources for labour costs, to further reduce the payment of collective supplementary pension premiums, to further reduce the amount of savings on work performance payments due to the increased volume of work and to reduce the number of employees applicable to an additional 1% in 2015 as applicable in 2016. By this law, which we are proposing today, we are imposing an extension of the validity of the reduction in salary scales, the non-compliance of wage classes, the non-payment of regular work performance, the limitation of the payment of work performance on the basis of the increased work volume, the reduction in the level of labour performance savings on the basis of increased work in the performance of regular work, and the delay in payment from promotion to higher pay grade and titles. It is important that this law or agreement, however, introduce certain stimulating elements that have long been in delay in recent years, and we have also agreed to reintroduce progress, regular progress with the costs that will actually be incurred only at the end of 2015; and progress in titles, also with a one-year delay in payment. It is important, however, that these advances have also gradually started to introduce those stimulating elements and have enabled workers to obtain titles that are a condition for the occupation of certain jobs for which the terms of the condition are used. However, there was also some dilemma as to why this matter is regulated by intervention law and not the Public Sector Wages Act. At this point, I would explain once again that these measures actually affect different laws and should change as many laws as possible, and we have therefore assessed that it is more transparent that they are regulated in one place with an intervention law. And there's another important reason. The agreement for these measures is that they are interventional, temporary, and therefore it is not appropriate to regulate them in legislation that permanently regulates the conditions for payment of public sector wages, but also broader. I hope that you will accept these arguments as meaningful and law, as proposed, and also support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 10th emergency meeting. 12. 2014 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal for treatment and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is 11. 12. 2014 at its 12th meeting decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee took note of the following material: a proposal for a law published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 10. 12. 2014; opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 11. 12. 2014, with the reply of the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 12. 12. 2014 and letter dated 12 September 2014 from the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr Koprivnikar, representative of the Minister for Public Administration, said in a further explanation of the articles that the proposed law was the result of negotiations and an agreement reached between the Government and representative public sector unions. The proposal for a law regulates emergency wage and other labour costs for public servants in 2015, which will help to achieve stable economic growth and a sustainable structural balance of public finances. These are temporary intervention measures which constitute an extension of the measures already in force and are integrated under the specific law. In particular, he pointed out that the proposal for a law, despite the restrictions on the mass of salaries in the public sector, brought about the release of advances, even though with the delay of payment, which is an important incentive element for public sector employees. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the proposed solutions were designed as a special law and were summarised in the provisions that had been established under the current legal regulation of the same or comparable measures. It therefore pointed out that such a legislative practice – in particular for users whose situation is regulated – reduces the transparency and clarity of regulation and thus affects the level of legal certainty and the rule of law principle. The Legislative and Legal Service has drawn up comments on Article 6, paragraph 1 and 2, where, with regard to the establishment of an exception and the reference to an arrangement in the sub-legislative acts, it has pointed out that the principle of the hierarchy of legal acts has not been respected; and Article 6, paragraph 4, which, according to the PSC, is not sufficiently clear. Finally, she pointed out that, by further explanation, the Ministry had responded adequately to the comments. The head of the negotiating group of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, Branimir Strukelj, said they supported the bill. He also responded to claims made in public that the public sector has contributed too little to the stabilisation of the financial situation in our country. From this point of view, the landing of trade unions to extend the measures in force, worth €313 million, is an important contribution to stabilising the situation. The head of the negotiating group of public sector trade unions, Drago Ščernjavič, said that public sector employees are the group that pays all taxes and contributions to the State, which is an important aspect of the treatment of the proposed law. He stressed that the internal savings reserves are elsewhere, not only in the public sector's wages. The Committee also took note of a letter from the Slovenian Military Union of 12. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, Guido Novak, highlighted the Constitutional Court's decision to establish the unconstitutionality of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System with regard to the arrangement of the quorum for the conclusion of the collective agreement in the public sector and its annexes. Since the agreement between the Government and the trade unions, reflected in the bill under consideration, was concluded under such non-constitutional conditions, he suggested that the members of the committee should reject the proposal for a law. In the debate, members and members of the Committee, hereinafter members of opposition groups, expressed some concerns about the importance of Article 10 of the bill, where they highlighted the wage imbalance in the public sector. The coalition members stressed that the conclusion of the agreement was positive and, of course, other forms of rationalisation should be carried out in the long term. An amendment to Article 10 was also tabled to the bill, which was later deleted and deleted by way of explanation. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] He accepted them. [[…]] The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015 be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect! Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we continue to remind the Government of the danger of the third recession, which can be caused by its austerity. Since we're not being heard, I'll point it out again. It repeats Janša's 2012 error when it caused a 700-million-euro decline in GDP with its public sector cuts. The State, which had already experienced a slight increase in 2011, withdrew the savings from then-Janša's government into a second recession, which stretched through 2012 and 2013 and did not return until 2014. In the end, the shortcomings were so great that they exceeded the savings that the economic losses and the social tragedies associated with them were not even mentioned. Anyone who thinks it is a coincidence to look at comparable statistics from other European countries following the austerity model will see a clear trend. The whole European periphery, in particular its south, has been pulled into a second recession and has gone deeper into the debt crisis; both are largely due to inadequate policies. If I am slightly paraphrasing Paul Krugman in my last book — a major recession that began in 2008 — it has been six years and it is not yet in sight. 120 thousand Slovenians and Slovenes are out of work, once again so inadequately employed. At the current level of job creation, the level of pre-crisis employment will not return until the end of the decade. It's a tragedy! Should we just accept it?Oh, my God! No, we know such situations and know how to save them. All we need to solve them is political will. And again in Slovenia we have received a government that has no political will to end this crisis. This government has decided to continue saving, not only economically but also socially unsustainable. In the course of negotiations with trade unions, it has been clear that there are no savings reserves on items where this government is supposed to save. Countless employees in health care, education and the police are already working on an existential minimum. For example, Milena Zupanič wrote in Dnevnik last time about sleeping women in cars that she meets on her way to work around 5:00 a.m. in the vicinity of the Clinical Center. These hot women in cars are nurses who can't afford parking places around UKC, so they come to work in the middle of the night so they can park for free. And these women would still be paid by the government. On the Internal Affairs Committee, we have seen what conditions the police are working under. The average age of a car is 10 years, the computers are 8 years old, their buildings are falling apart. I really don't know where this luxury is in the public sector that is yet to be cut. Let's stop pretending that tightening belts is the poorest way to get money from the government. Let the government take the money where it can really be. Let him lower his wages in a bad bank, where advisers make as much as 20,000 euros a month for 32 hours a week; take on public contracts where private interests are consumed in public and therefore out of the state treasury drain millions every month; raise taxes on capital and the rich, prevent capital from being drained into tax havens. This should fill the government with cash, not by destroying public services and middle-class standards and the poorest who have borne the burden of the crisis so far. Under the line. In the United Left, we are pleased that the government has decided to step back and that it will not suffer the suffering of public officials and shoot down social sub-systems such as education, health care and the police. It should be noted, however, that the claims made in the media are not genuine. There was a public impression that public servants were willing to give up only EUR 30 million, even a big victory for trade unions. However, it has to be said that this data is not real because we are not talking about 30 million euros, but about 330 million euros in cuts because the existing 300 million savings package is added to another 30 million. In the United Left we will vote in favour, but only because we do not wish to mine the social agreement with the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u7	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, on her behalf Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President, good day to you all! In fact, the proposal for a law that we are considering actually means, after the content of the implementation of the already concluded agreement between the public sector unions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on, in pronouns, "saving measures" in the field of public sector salaries for 2015. While the government is trying to present a public sector wage agreement as a achievement and savings in public finances in media performances, the truth must be seen in the eyes. The planned wage savings in the public sector have been much more ambitious on the government side than the current recovery after the agreement with the public sector unions. The plan to reduce expenditure in this area was around € 127 million, and it is negotiated around – you say – between €20 million and €30 million. If I were on the union side, I'd sign off on that one right away. At the same time in New Slovenia we see a major problem – inequality, disproportionateity between public sector unions and their achievements and what the government wants to burden the economy. We cannot help but overlook the fact that the economy has saved much more from September 2008 to this September and, on the other hand, the public sector has become more rich, wages have increased, wages have increased, and the number of employees has increased. Just for example in a school where we have about a thousand and 500 teachers more, with 2 thousand and 500 students less since 2008. This is precisely why Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support or oppose the bill. Not only because the government has failed in the next year's wage negotiations, but also because of the way it negotiated. The government negotiated at one time with all the public sector unions, although this is virtually impossible in a given situation; and that is exactly what we heard on the committee. On the one hand, we have a union of police officers, soldiers, nurses and someone else who, from the point of view of the salary levels themselves, is highly fed and in fact has no place to take them anymore, and on the other hand, we have trade unions representing that part of the public sector that still have staff surpluses and high wages. In our view, the government should negotiate separately with individual trade unions and also look at how much the private sector has actually contributed to the resolution of the crisis in the country. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we are convinced that savings are still possible in the public sector, but the government must find them and then regulate them in specific areas. However, savings must be sought in the field of optimisation of work processes and more rational public administrations. The internal closure of these systems is also a problem that needs to be highlighted when it comes to the public sector. There has been almost no new employment in the last ten years. However, the transitions of public officials within the system are minimal. Thus, the public administration is becoming an increasingly aging and skeletal bureaucratic system. The police union also draws attention to the consequences of the ageing of police personnel, and this is considered a whole or at least a large part of the public sector. It's over. Certainly, the government will also have to engage in greater flexibility of employment in the public sector or at least within this system, and the system of awards and promotions will not only be linked to job systemisation and the number of years of employment, but mainly to the efficiency and quality of work of the individual system or organisation and also of every public servant. We stress the need to introduce a system of public sector remuneration. Systemic measures will also need to be taken to deliver results in the long term. There is no time to delay these measures, and we expect the government to bring a package of measures in this area at the time of the 2015 budget rebalancing. Once again, it is an incomprehensible failure of the government to negotiate with the public sector unions compared to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u9	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u10	A nice greeting in this lovely morning, especially after two introductory speakers who showed how we think diametrically the opposite. And, of course, you also sit properly at your end. This proposal for a law on these measures is urgently needed and it is more than clear that it was only a matter of time before it would really have to be adopted. The question is whether we are satisfied with it. We've seen, in front of the cameras, everyone, the unions and the government, one and the other. How much they really showed it and how honest that was, of course, that is different. The commentators accompanied such coordination as interesting and, above all, showed that the unions were the winners. In fact, this moment was the winner of the budget and no one else, because the only budget is the one who wants to be balanced – and for that both first interlocutors are fighting. None of them said how this really happened. And that's the problem. As long as this is present in this country, we will have a problem all together, all taxpayers and all citizens who benefit from this budget, in one way or another, indirect or direct. For the Alliance, it is particularly important that the government has gone wrong and too hard or, I will say, with too much hope, with the conviction of what will be achieved through these negotiations. First, it would be very good if such negotiations were behind closed doors and without arguing in front of television, because we know that it creates unrest and even passion in the population, especially if we finally find that the mountain was shaking and the mouse was born. That is why it is very important for us, because measures will be needed, especially on the revenue side already announced by the Minister of Finance, what they will be like. And we look forward to these measures, because the 2015 budget will not be as easy to close as it looks. We believe that this is the most difficult step for the government right now. A few things are still open, what can be done, and how this can be arranged. However, there are some types of political stability and also peace between all the social partners that will coordinate further agreements and negotiations are urgently needed. It is a fact, however, that if the government in 2014 had allowed its mission, with the confidence of the electorate, to sign an agreement in July 2014, today would have significantly more and significantly easier time and peace to agree on other measures that were not agreed upon in this hysteria. I believe that in the next year 2015 it will be wiser, with significantly more experience and also with a strategy to achieve this. Where unions and governments agree, real social partners and governments make a point of supporting proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, in its name mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u12	Good morning, everyone! Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, dear fellow Member and fellow Members! I would like to present the position of the Mir Cerar Party on the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015, following the urgent procedure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I certainly do not agree with my colleagues that we are not trying to establish stability and find a way out of the crisis. I believe that the Mir Cerar Party, in view of the legacy it has received, is taking firm and steep steps towards finding a way out of the crisis. I strongly believe that we can do this together. In fact, the reason why we are adopting today the proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs is two. The first is to be 31. 12. 2014 expires the measures set out in the agreement on additional measures in the field of salaries and other public sector labour costs to balance public finances from 1 June to 31 December 2014. The second reason why it is necessary to adopt a proposal for a law is that an agreement was signed on 9 December on measures to reduce the volume of wage funds and other public sector labour costs for 2015 signed by most unions. You probably know that out of 38 unions, it was actually signed by 29, which is what I consider to be a success in these times. The current budget in 2015 is projected at 3%, which is around €127 million less for labour costs than in 2014. Furthermore, Slovenia is obliged to fulfil its commitment to achieve a reduction in the budget deficit of less than 3 % of the gross social product in 2015. That's what we hear every day, but I think we need to make him aware and somehow take it step by step to accomplish that. For if we fail to comply with this agreement, we all know the consequences. Also, if there was no agreement with the unions, the cost of work should be further reduced by at least EUR 349 million. As this would free everyone from the measures in force so far in the field of public sector labour costs, of which, in fact, 313 million from the extension of the measures. Let me just mention that 36 million estimated additional savings in 2015 are from agreed measures with the unions, which I again consider our joint success. In fact, this law constitutes the realisation of this agreement on additional measures in the area of salaries and other public sector labour costs and provides for certain measures to be regulated by law, as they must be regulated. However, the provisions may be governed by the Collective Treaty for the Public Sector and the Collective Treaty for Non-economic Activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the proposal for a law bears the largest part of the financial impact of the implementation of the agreement on measures to reduce the volume of wage funds and other public sector labour costs for 2015 of around 261 million. Here I place the fact that we put everything on the shoulders of the economy. The public sector also shows that it wants to contribute effectively to the stabilisation, consolidation of public finances and finally to the crisis in our country. Let me also mention that the bill extends the validity of the reduced salary scale in the Public Sector Wage System Act to 31. 12. 2015; at the same time as the draft law until 31. 12. 2015 do not harmonise the value of wage classes. Nor will regular work performance be paid in the following year. It will continue to limit the payment of work performance on an individual scale, reduce the level of savings for the payment of work performance on an increased scale and the number of other measures that we have taken on the Committee. Once again, I stress that these measures are interventional, urgent and actually intended to ensure stability and prosperity in our country. For this reason and on the basis of everything mentioned above, the Mir Cerar Group supports those solutions of the proposed law [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] voted in favour. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we were overwhelmed by warm cold feelings when reading this law. We were pleased to see the words recorded in the introduction, which states that Slovenia has already implemented certain measures in the course of consolidation of public finances in the past, but additional measures are needed to ensure long-term and sustainable growth. The measures taken here are probably mainly from 2012, when the government of Janez Janša introduced the ZUJF. Thus, this law has positive consequences, regardless of the fact that certain Slovenian politicians on the European political floor are singing praises to him, and at home they are pouring manure under this law. The government of Janez Janša then promised that the ZUJF would be in force only in 2013 and 2014. When taking real and structural measures, it will not be necessary to extend it and something has happened, not to mention pension reform, labour market reform. It began with privatisation, and the mechanism of the so-called bad bank was set up, but the government of Alenka Bratušek stopped all ideas about structural reforms, defaced the bad bank, behaved strangely in privatisation, raised taxes, set up new bureaucratic barriers, and in particular wrangling in debt. That's why this government has a difficult task ahead of it. But the two parties in this government are the rest of the previous, almost destructive government. The Mir Cerar Party team is also being hunted in the exercise of executive and legislative authority, where it feels like it wants to change, but is also afraid; or it is a lot of talk about these changes, and it does not do much fighting. And when you don't know what you're going to find out, you're going to extend the measures that are already in force because you have no ideas because they're bad or individual ideas don't come true and because they're not brave enough. This has also been the case in a friendly account with the public sector unions, which has resulted in a slow or modest recovery of the negotiations. And the bill will be issued to citizens, probably mainly to the economy, to the municipalities and through other measures. In the SDS we respect social dialogue, but in this dialogue the government has lost and has therefore accumulated new problems in how to patch up the 2015 budget. To talk about successful negotiations, and to give up on almost all points, is just a poor pyar. That's too bad. In the SDS, we believe that the government has kneeled too quickly before the public sector unions. In our view, there is still a great deal of reserve in the state administration, but unfortunately, due to the adoption of linear measures, we will still talk about problems, particularly the salaries of police officers, firefighters, soldiers, nurses. So the most vulnerable will be even more vulnerable, which says much about the so-called social policy of the government of Mir Cerar. It is also significant that all unions are not satisfied because they believe that individual union bosses are exploiting them and that they are partly rooting for their own mill. Therefore, in the SDS, we fear that the poor exploitation of the Ministry of Public Administration will cause even more headaches for his fellow Minister of Finance, unless he goes along the line of least resistance and we will continue to witness the increase in taxes and further debt. We are therefore confident in the SDS that we will meet with the extension of this law at the end of 2015. In short, since the years 2013 and 2014 were two years behind, there is now a law in place of structural reforms before us, which, instead of a new chapter on wages and other public sector labour costs, only prolongs the current situation. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are increasingly afraid that this government is becoming an extension of the policy of the former government. Lots of words, little solutions. A lot of debt and taxes and bad prospects for the future. One opportunity for a different policy was missed. How many exams do we have left? For the reasons stated in the SDS Group, we will not support the law, nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, in its name mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All together a nice greeting, especially to the Minister of Public Administration! The Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015 is a proposal that is expected to enter into force as of the new year. The law provides for the transfer of austerity measures already in force by the end of this year. The measures proposed by the law include, for example, a reduced salary scale, an extension of non-coordination of basic salaries, an extension of the non-payment of regular work performance, a reduction in the amount of annual leave and an extension of the limited payment of labour performance on the basis of an increased volume of work. Although the latter measure will be followed by a new reduction in the volume of savings resources which may be devoted to the payment of the increased workload in the performance of regular tasks. The bill also provides for the suspension of payments from advances to pay grade and titles or higher titles over the next two years. The solutions proposed include a reduction in the payment of collective supplementary pension premiums and a reduction in the number of public servants, which will not exceed 1% at the annual level, as is already the case. This measure would also exempt budget users from the scope of the broadcasting to external operators. There is also a measure relating to the possibility of selective reduction of labour obligations. It is probably not necessary to explain that this bill is the result of an agreement on measures to control wages in the coming year signed by the government and most of the public sector unions on Tuesday, 9 December. Of the 38 representative unions, 29. Despite the fact that all trade unions will not sign the agreement, the measures will apply to the whole public sector. The Desus Group will, of course, support the bill. We are pleased that both sides have been able to do so much wisdom that they have both eased a little and met halfway. As the Minister of Finance said, both sides are dissatisfied, which shows that the deal is a good one. However, in the Desus Group, we expect more work to begin on the revenue side and that the competent ministry will demonstrate a little more skills and imagination in maintaining the sustainability of public finances, once finally exceeding the same framework for many years – reducing the salaries of public officials, threatening to reduce pensions and social transfers and so on. We are confident that, with appropriate measures, we can save a lot of money in such a way that those who already feel the consequences of the financial and economic crisis from which our country has not yet managed to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal for a law on wage measures and other public sector costs for 2015 is the product of negotiations between the government and representative public sector unions. Since the draft law is also accompanied by a signed declaration by 29 negotiating groups on the degree of harmonisation of the text, we will support this law by Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Despite the announced support for the bill under consideration, however, I would like to make a few words about the public servants involved in this bill. Organised public sector, which brings together various professions and organisations that provide public services to all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, is also organised public services. Let me focus on public service providers. There are just over 150 thousand of them, public servants and employees who provide public services in the areas we have and will need – all of them regardless of age, sex, status. We are talking about the areas of education, education, health, social protection, the protection of the elderly, security, public order and peace, and it could also be listed. So just over 150 thousand public servants serve just over 2 million people in the Republic of Slovenia. Are there too many? Is everyone really doing bad? Are they really overpaid? Each individual should be judged on this matter. When we do not need public sector services ourselves, we only remember those that depend on the functioning of the public sector. And if we think about it, the public sector, we need public service every day. Also today, practically in every family, narrower and wider, someone is employed in the public sector — husband, wife, children, grandchildren. Which one of them is too much?Oh, my God! We believe that there is a need to reverse individual work processes and to check where there is an unacceptable use of public funds and the delays in the implementation of individual public services and to eliminate them. The continuous transfer of blame for the crisis to the public sector will not help to improve the situation in Slovenia. Sometimes it seems that the constant criticism of public servants is actually a criticism of those who have participated in the deepening of the crisis or who have gone blind and looked away when they should react. It should be pointed out that the current salary scale is lower than it was in 2006, which means that the public sector is constantly giving up and beating fate with difficult macroeconomic circumstances. As has already been said, Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude with a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances (ZUJF-C) following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u20	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act and it deals with a very important area, namely student work. We would have preferred to have arranged this in another law, but at the moment it was only possible to carry out this law, because the student work regime covers the already repealed Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, which applies only to provisions relating to student work. And the regulation of the student work was only then regulated, the amount of the concession with the law that we are amending today. It's a major change in two parts. We have a major segmentation problem in our labour market. This segmentation in the labour market, which is felt by the most young, is mainly caused by the cost of unevenly treated different forms of work. Until that time, the student’s work had been the most expensive form of work, so it was very often used and sometimes, unfortunately, abused. On the other hand, because it is so cost-effective, it is reprehensible, so it does not guarantee any social rights for students and students who carry out this form of work. With this proposal, we are increasing the costs of this form of work, but we are not increasing them in a way that is to say that something is being paid to pay. Youths also receive a full and recognized retirement age from this title, which is important. The health contribution will also be paid. However, the cost of this work will still be much lower than other forms — business, copyright or employment contracts. The law, which we will also see today when you consider it, significantly reduces contributions from the payment of the employment contract for young people. Interventionally hiring a young person for an indefinite period of at least three months is more beneficial than in the case of student work, which is an important incentive to employ young people for an indefinite period of time. It is also important in this law that we have reached an agreement with the Student Organisation. Many discussions and many words have been about reforming or changing student work for more than a year and a half and a half before, in previous mandates; remember the Small Work Act. This is some process where we have long needed this consensus. I believe that today there will be broad support for these changes and that we will continue in this direction together next year. Maybe I forgot to mention one more thing. An agreement on the minimum hourly rate is also important because students will pay the contribution of the pension from the value of the fee. It was also necessary to establish this minimum base so that employers would not go beyond the full cost of students and students. I want your support. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 10th emergency meeting. 12. 2014 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act, following an urgent procedure. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council, which supports the proposal of the law, the amendment of the three coalition groups to Article 6 of the legislative proposal and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Articles 1 and 2 of the legislative proposal. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the President of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. It follows from the supplementary explanation given by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities that the text introduces solutions that provide higher social and economic security for students and students, including temporary and occasional work of students and students in social insurance systems. It was pointed out that a number of discussions had taken place with regard to the proposed student work arrangements – which to a certain extent represents a social correction by providing certain social security, acquisition and recognition of work experience. On the principle that each work is counted; everyone who works also pays contributions; this is not an additional taxation of students and students, but of the rights acquired from this title. The proposal introduces contributions for pension and disability insurance as well as health insurance for students; with a fundamental emphasis that the employer’s cost does not change substantially, while maintaining the necessary flexibility and without additional administrative burdens. On the basis of the commitment with the Student Organisation, efforts are being made at the same time to recognise the work experience of the student work. The proposal provides for a minimum hourly item of 4.5 euros gross or 3.8 euros net, provided for by minimum wage, which represents the basic necessary security segment for students. In the joint agreements with the Student Organisation, the text undoubtedly results in a high level of coordinated dialogue. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further stressed that the amendment of the three coalition parliamentary groups to Article 6 took into account the Rule 6 warning given by the Legislative and Legal Service. The debate, which focused on the SDS Group's amendment to Articles 1 and 2, expressed certain views, concerns and opinions. The idea was expressed that there was an additional burden on young people, not least with contributions from student earnings, although such work represented a social adjustment. The field of traineeships was further highlighted. The amendments have been presented, after which concession fees to be paid to the Student Organisation of Slovenia and to intermediaries are halved and earmarked for the employment of young trainees, meaning, in the opinion expressed, a comprehensive measure which will eliminate volunteer traineeships and allow young people to enter the labour market by providing the necessary resources for paid and quality traineeships through a sustainable source of funding. It follows from the Government's concluding observations that the objectives set are not only student work but also the area of paid traineeships with the most effective measures within the programme schemes of the competent departments. He stressed that the necessary funding for paid traineeships would be provided in the future within the available framework of European funds. In this context, EUR 24 million is currently available for paid traineeships for 2014 and 2015. However, a consensus is needed in the domain of social dialogue in which they have been complemented. At the time of the hearing, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 6; however, it did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u24	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! A student’s work is an anomaly and is being abused to a large extent. Above all, in the last five years it is clear that it does not serve its purpose. This should be the acquisition of work experience during the study, which is desirable in its field of expertise, which would lead to a regular working relationship with those who show well during the course of their studies. Instead, employers of this form of work serve to a large extent as the most flexible mode of employment, but after the student status has expired, workers are easily replaced with new workers who do not yet have such status. Former workers, however, are often unemployed, without official work experience and without any rights from the health or pension register. In this light, we Christian Democrats think it is good that this form of work is made possible and that a minimum hourly item should be laid down, as there will therefore be less motivation for employers to use these forms of employment instead of regular employment. From the perspective of the New Slovenia programme, however, any regulation can be problematic as it interferes with market freedom. We hope that the proponents have carefully examined all the possible consequences of such a change in the regulation of the area. This is a particularly sensitive matter, as student work is an important social adjustment to a large number of students, especially those with a more difficult social situation. A lot of students are actually able to study with this work. Christian Democrats, however, need to draw attention to one problematic solution to the novelty. We are concerned about the drastic reduction in the percentage of concession fee to be allocated to scholarships after 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After that date, only 2 percentage points of already reduced student work concession fees are to be applied to scholarships on purpose. From 23 % of the concession fee, 67 % of which is intended for scholarships under the ZUJF, the concession duty shall be reduced to 9,59 % at the time of acceptance, of which only 20,86 % are intended for scholarships. Ladies and gentlemen. Is this a smart move in the current situation? From what will the state fund the scholarships? Dear Minister, what will be the sources of the grant in 2015 and 2016, or the criteria for obtaining the grant? Are they the same or will you change them? Let's hope we don't sharpen. We warn everyone responsible about this – we hope – to make a mistake and call for the area to be regulated by the system. It is not negligible that the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn attention to some of the shortcomings and errors of this proposal. The New Slovenia parliamentary group - the Christian Democrats of the novel ZUJF will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u25	The word is given by the Allied Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, in her name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u26	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Not long ago we had before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act. At that time, we considered the removal of the unconstitutional situation caused by the law. And, may I mention, this was not the only unconstitutionality that the ZUJF had caused; nor was it the first remedy for this kind of irregularity. The Public Finance Balance Act is one of those laws that has raised a lot of dust since its adoption in 2012. The procedure for the adoption of the law, which reached into the substance of 39 different laws, was inappropriate — and I am sure that most people here today agree on it — in the National Assembly. Let me recall, the law was adopted by emergency procedure, without prior coordination, without taking into account the comments of the interested public, and, as already mentioned, the law has infringed on the substance of 39 different laws. The intervention law, which was supposed to be in place by the ZUJF, introduced temporary and permanent measures. It touched on the areas of social rights, pension rights, public sector wages and also the way in which rents and interest are taxed, the amount of taxes on water vessels, motor vehicles and so on, not to mention all the measures contained by the ZUJF. It certainly did not contribute to a more transparent legal environment. Not so long ago, to be precise, one month ago we held a broader debate on whether the ZUJF should be complemented and modified and thus prolong its validity. In the Alliance's Group, we feel that it is not appropriate to extend such a law as the ZUJF; even more so. We believe that it is only right that all the permanent measures introduced by this law should be regulated within the framework of the laws of origin, and that the provisional measures should, by their very nature, be extinguished after the time limit for which they have been adopted. That's what he was supposed to do at his reception, but he wasn't. The government has clearly decided that the NUJF is a suitable material for the new measures to be regulated right in it in the infamous ZUJF. Thus, today, on the one hand, we face this intervention law and, on the other hand, the long-term bargaining and negotiation with the students and students that had been initiated since the previous government. The main purpose of today's change and complementarity is actually to reform student work. And I stress that the intervention law is complemented by a reform of student work. I cannot speak on behalf of the other groups of Members, but if I express the position of our Group of Members of the Alliance, then it is at least unusual that I do not express myself in any other way. We certainly do not oppose regulation and the final regulation of student work. Moreover, it is known that we have just started negotiations with competent student and student organisations. It is our government that has recognized the unenviable situation of young people in the programme, and even now in times of crisis, when young people have paid disproportionately high prices. The existing temporary and occasional work of students and students allows young people to gain work experience, contact with the labour market and the possibility of additional earnings. To a certain extent, employers shall be provided with a flexible workforce to cover exceptional human resources needs. The agreement reached will ensure higher levels of social and economic security for students and students involved in student work and will not allow the anomalies we are witnessing today in the labour market. A minimum hourly rate is set, temporary and occasional work will be included in pension, disability insurance and health insurance. Contributions for pension and disability insurance will be paid from the amount on the passport and employers will pay contributions for pension and disability insurance, health insurance contributions, contributions for injuries at work and occupational diseases and concession benefits. In the Alliance Group, we welcome the agreement reached, which was more than necessary. However, there is no way we can accept the arguments for its regulation in the intervention law. Also, lack of time and urgency with the adoption of the law cannot be the reason why a special law has not been drawn up which would further recognize the right status and place in society for young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u27	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, in its name mag. Claudia Markesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u28	All present, once again graciously greeted by my side. However, I would like to present the position of the Mir Cerar Party and to inform the public and all present that the main purpose of the proposal for a law on public finance balance is to eliminate the anomaly in the labour market, which, in the Council's recommendations on Slovenia's National Reform Programme for 2012-2013 and the Council's opinion on the Slovenian Stability Programme for 2012-2015, warns the European Union and is, in fact, one of Slovenia's commitments to the 2013-2014 National Reform Programme; it is not negligible that it has relevant implications for our country's public finances. It is essential in all this removal of the anomalies that the key objective that follows the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance is to ensure higher social and economic security for students and students. It is also important to ensure the inclusion of a temporary and occasional part of students and students in social security systems and to eliminate and prevent existing anomalies and abuse in the labour market. The draft law introduces full contributions from the employer and the insured person for pension and disability insurance, as well as contributions from the employer for health insurance. At the same time, it makes proportionate adjustments to all the essential components of the existing concession fee. I think it is very important that we unify the work of students and students and, somehow, follow the principle that each work actually counts, because this means that through student work we make it possible to pay contributions to the social treasury. We are aware that we are an ageing population and that our social treasury or pension needs certain contributions, so to speak. On the other hand, we allow young people to become equal adults, older people, in the sense that they have a recognised working age and enter a public pension system based mainly on intergenerational solidarity. As a result, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law is new to the recognition of the work experience gained from student work, which is also very important today, because we know that young people do not have the opportunity to work in some way, that their work experience is not recognised, that they are often given less important work. I think we need to give them a chance with this. This measure – The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act is one of these. Students have a major problem when first-time job seekers, since, despite years of student work, they have not been able to make formal studies of these experiences. We all know that they worked, worked up to the early 30s and beyond, but I believe that these are the anomalies in our system that we will somehow eliminate by proposing amendments to this law. In fact, they show the way forward to take a number of measures that will systematically address problems in the work of students and students. I would also like to mention that the student work institute is adapting to the bill in a way that will provide a higher level of social and economic security for the student. However, it is essential that the basic mechanisms do not change. The student work will also be carried out in the future through so-called student services and on the basis of a manual, mostly in electronic form, and without any additional administrative burden. It seems important to me that we definitively set a minimum hourly rate for the work done in order to determine the value of the contribution to health insurance and also the contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases. It is held that a concession fee of 16 % by 1. 1. 2016 is slightly reduced, but this proposal was signed by the government together with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. It is an important agreement in the sense that we are all working together to bring stability and a way out of our country's crisis. Based on the latter and the support expressed in the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party to the proposal for a bill of discussion, I reiterate that the importance of implementing this agreement is very important and will enable us to approach the comprehensive reform of student work, which I think is particularly important. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u29	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary! In the SDS Group, we estimate that the main purpose of the novel is to hit students and students in the pocket of the financial balance law. Not to edit student work, because then it would be regulated in a field law, namely the Student Work Act; but not to regulate student work in an intervention law called the ZUJF. We believe that this is a new tax, which will be paid exclusively by young people, by those who work through a guide — students and students. The calculations show that the student and student who has received EUR 100 to date will pay EUR 15 per cent of social rights contributions, for which 90 per cent of young people today say they will never receive them or will never be able to take advantage of them. So 15 euros less earnings per 100 euros is something, especially for those, because we know a lot of young people who consider student work to be social corrective. We need to know that the average earnings through a student travel in Slovenia for a month is around €225. We can see that young people will be quite disadvantaged. In the National Assembly, many enjoy talking about intergenerational solidarity. But respectable and respected, if anyone says that Slovenia or that we are intergenerationally solidarity and coordinated, we should ask him for his health. Many – sociologists, social workers, researchers – find that due to the economic crisis that Europe or the world is in, above all, a young generation is the one who is described as a lost generation. And I think all of us here, the 90 of us, including the government, should make an effort not to. But unfortunately this proposal goes to the degradation of the situation of young people. At the hearing of the Finance Committee in the SDS Group, we proposed a systemic solution, including two amendments to halve funding for student services and the Student Organisation of Slovenia. These funds would, however, provide for the employment and salaries of volunteer trainees. It was a very concrete systemic measure to ensure funding and payment for each volunteer trainee from the following year. It saddens us that the coalition didn't listen to us. They could probably also be saved by sending the student work to a greater extent to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. You may not know that student work can already be provided by the Employment Service today, but the proportion of the travels issued is miserable, it is not worth mentioning, we can say almost nothing. And if the state had an interest in making money, getting money back, it would do something; not that it is actively at peace all the time and is just observing the situation. Student work – that is, social adjustment, which will be accessible to fewer young people, i.e. students and students, when the student works are encouraged. I would like to point out that the promotion or reform of student work is also opposed by the Association of Employers of Slovenia, and we would also like to point out that concession funds for scholarships are falling. It's an illegal intervention into the right to a scholarship. The scholarship policy in Slovenia is not effective, unfortunately, a huge amount of funding remains due to the inhumane criteria. I think there's a lot of reserves and potentials here. Allow me to conclude, because we're in pre-emptive time, I'll conclude with this thought. Santa is the only bigger gentleman who brings anything; everyone else takes it, just like this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marija Antonija Kováčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u32	Nice greeting, Mr. President. Madam Minister and co-workers, greetings also to Members and Members of Parliament! Student work has a positive aspect in the social field for students and students, as we cannot pass the truth that today's benefit from this title is in many cases actually a social adjustment due to the low or poor economic and social status of the student and the student's family. This form of work is the most favourable for employers at the moment, especially in terms of costs, since, in fact, of this work, there is no payment of any social security benefits or contributions, except for some small-scale concessional benefits and minimum lump sums for special health insurance. As a result, it is understandable that students and students do not have any rights. Student work also opens up the problem of unfair competition and abuse of student work. Due to the low cost of work, employers are mass-serving the replacement of regular jobs with this harsh but totally legal option of work, although many of the student-employer relationships are purely classic elements of the right working relationship. Students often work continuously for months or even years; when they study only. It follows from the studies of the student work that the rate of transition from one year to the other among students active through the student work is much lower than the transition of all others. Let me also recall the recent debate before the Commission on Public Finance Supervision when we discussed the Court of Auditors' audit report entitled Virtual enrolments in higher education and higher education programmes. According to the data presented, the country's fictitious entries have cost at least EUR 50 million over the last three years. If these 50 million euros were allocated to scholarships, what would that mean?Oh, my God! If I play a little bit with numbers representing students receiving a state scholarship – these were 15 thousand 603 in 2013 – and the average amount of the grant amounted to 192 euros in 2013, there could be at least five times as many government scholarships as I calculate in 2013. That's not a small number anymore. The fact that, in addition to abuse of student work and unfair competition and segmentation in the labour market, this form of work does not provide for the social security of students and students, since they do not have any rights from this title, nor do they recognize it as a formal work experience. In the Desus Group, we therefore agree with the objective that the Ministry of Labour and, of course, the Government want to achieve with this law. This is the realization of the principle – each work counts. On this basis, students and students will also receive rights under these headings at the time of the introduction of the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance. It is expected that this new burden of student work is being severely criticised by the economy, as this form will also be slightly undermined by the establishment of a minimum hourly rate of €4.5 gross. In Desus, of course, we do not agree with the opposition. We support the new hourly item if I think that this difference is manifesting itself in the regions as well. For example, in Koroška a student who works as a waiter earns 2.75 euros; while in Ljubljana payments move between 4 and 5 euros. The Desus Group will both support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u33	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž German, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We have before us the amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act, which, after repeated attempts, partially regulates student work. Although we would like to see this finally settled at the systemic level, as colleagues have already found out today, we are satisfied with the solution because we believe that it is still a step in the right direction and a step forward. The possibility of working for students and students means improving living standards, greater self-reliance and learning and competence, and thus entering the social work network, which will enable them to become employed later. Student work enables young people to gain work experience, contact the labour market and the possibility of additional earnings. Unfortunately, it also represents social corrections in these times of crisis. The data show that the volume of student work from year to year is increasing to the amount of hours spent and also to the extent of the income provided for in this Title. Students are a strong competitor of the labour market, as their average remuneration for businesses is lower than the average paid workers. In addition to cost competitiveness, the employer’s decision to employ a student is also based on greater flexibility in employment. In doing so, we must not forget that the seemingly studying youth are trapped in the spiral of uncertain informal works and are therefore significantly more exposed to marginalisation in the labour market in the long term. The extension of youth education also increases dependence on parents and undermines the system of accessible higher education for all, since, due to fictitious enrollments, the state also allocates more resources from the budget than it should otherwise be. However, student work does not provide social security and cannot be implemented either as a work experience or as a retirement age. And we're changing that with a novelty of this law. With the proposal on the table today, the existing student work institute is being adapted to provide students with a higher level of social and economic security, and the labour market will not produce the anomalies we have witnessed to date. The basic mechanisms of student work do not change with the proposal of the law. The student work will also be carried out in the future through organisations so-called student services, on the basis of a journey mainly in electronic form, as has already been said today, and without additional administrative burdens that would in any way inhibit this process. On the basis of a minimum wage, a minimum hourly rate of 4,5 euros gross shall be fixed. The temporary and occasional work of students and students will be newly included in pension and disability insurance as well as in health insurance. I must say that there have been quite a few untruths in this area today, and I hope that there will be an opportunity for the Minister to say more about this. Let me mention just one thing: that grants will in no way interfere with the budget, or that they will be financed in some way, so that we do not interfere with the balance. Despite the inclusion of contributions to pension and disability insurance, contributions to health insurance and a proportionate increase in the costs of temporary and occasional work of students and students, it should be stressed that the temporary and occasional work of students will remain one of the cheapest forms on the labour market in the future. For these and other reasons, the proposed law will also be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u35	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u36	Dear President, the House of Honor! Thank you for your word. In the beginning, I'm going to repeat what I said in this place before the time. I do not understand why this government has decided to rule by amending and supplementing one of the worst laws ever adopted in the National Assembly. With this amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, the government is trying to patch up the systemic problems of the labour market, namely – student work. The proposed corrections should bring the student work closer to regular employment after the burdens and rights arising from the work. Looking closer at the matter, it quickly becomes clear that only burdens, not justice, are approaching the standard of regular employment. If the government followed the recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Service and explained how, for example, the pension period for which students will pay their contributions would be calculated would soon end the apparent peace between students. For one month of recognized retirement, a student who earns a minimum of 4.5 euros per hour will have to work 202 hours per month. This means that the student will have to work for five weeks of retirement. The country should ensure equal access to education for all, but this access is limited at all levels by the social and economic situation; most precisely in higher education. Those students who have to survive without the support of parents and scholarships are forced to do so because of the economic and social policies of this country. Once again, this law does not provide them with adequate social security, but makes their situation worse by increasing the burden. Next. By pushing students into the 18th Section of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, they are classified as second-class insured when it comes to disability rights. Persons insured under Article 18 of this Law, i.e. dissident workers, who do not have any rights on the basis of a third category disability, have only rights on the basis of a second category disability. In the United Left, it is therefore envisaged that the consequences of the implementation of these changes will be similar to those in 2013, when, according to the principle, each work is considered to be additionally taxed income of corrupt workers working on the basis of copyright and business contracts. Employers will find ways to put additional costs on their workers, which means lowering their net earnings. The students here have chosen at least a minimum hourly item to limit competition to the bottom, which rules among reticent workers. However, it is important to look things in the eye and acknowledge that there are many ways to play these rules, which are applied to normal working relationships. Things are going so far in the crisis that some workers, or a number of workers, have to agree, for example, to adjust the number of hours worked so that they can keep their jobs, which is even more common in student work. In principle, in the United Left, we do not oppose laws that enforce an agreement between the government and representatives of social interests; in this case, we do not hope to assume the responsibility for an agreement in which the weaker party, i.e. students, is in our opinion given a significantly less than reasonable minimum that could be required of it. We cannot assume co-responsibility for an agreement in which the same rights for all are hidden only by higher burdens for students, while at the same time lowering the concession funds for scholarships and maintaining the profits from student services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u37	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 7B of the agenda, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, under the urgent procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main objective of the bill before you is to legislate solutions that will enable the country's budget to be implemented in 2015 in an ongoing and smooth manner. The draft law also includes some other provisions which must be applied before the start of the financial year to which they relate and some other provisions which we wish to implement as soon as possible. The bill does not legislate specific new principles or fundamental budgetary principles, as they are already defined in the Public Finance Act. The content of the proposed law can be summarised into a few key points. I only point out the most important. Water and climate funds are recognised as budgetary funds and enable the transfer of funds from the existing dedicated items to both budgetary funds. It is precisely laid down in which year it is necessary to ensure the entitlements of expenditure to payment of obligations under judicial or administrative decisions and settlements where they impose payment of obligations in the coming years. The legal basis is laid down for individual State claims against debtors to be sold under certain conditions and lays down in which cases capital investments and claims do not need to be included in the annual asset sales programme. An additional deficit in the state budget is allowed up to the amount of requests for reimbursement of European cohesion policy funds already submitted to the European Commission at the end of each calendar year but not yet paid. Articles 49 and 51 shall be amended to allow indirect users to agree on a financial plan, a work programme, and a staff plan to be issued by the body exercising the rights of establishment. At the same time, there is a clear legal basis for indirect users of state and municipal budgets to be temporarily financed in 2015 until the country's budget is rebalanced or the municipal budget is adopted. An obligation is laid down to reduce the number of employees in the users of the budget by 1%, which is an integral part of the union agreement. The amount of the annual allowance for pensioners in 2015 shall be reduced, the amount of the resources provided by the State budget for awards to members of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts shall be reduced, and a pre-audit and audit fee shall be fixed in cases of legal protection in procurement proceedings. As already mentioned in the introduction, the Government considers that the proposed changes are necessary for the smooth implementation of the state budget in 2015 and their adoption is necessary before the start of the financial year. Therefore, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that you adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u39	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! At its 11th urgent meeting on 12 December 2014, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 7, 8, 10, 11, 12 and 13; the SDS Group on Articles 5 and 12; and the ZaAB Group on Article 6. A proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 5 was also submitted to the members and members of the Committee at the meeting, which was adopted by the Committee in the debate. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law contained provisions for which the Government had assessed that they should be adopted in 2014 for the smooth and ongoing implementation of the country's budgets in 2015. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the comments made in the written opinion of the Service on the provisions derogating from the comprehensive system-wide legislation and warned that such a derogation from the system-wide regime jeopardised the legal certainty and principle of the rule of law. She pointed out that these exceptions were necessarily limited in time, which should otherwise be regulated by system laws. Regarding the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she explained that they do not remove the basic comments of the service, but that the individual provisions are clearer and more specific on the basis of these amendments. In connection with the amendments tabled by SDS and ZaAB, the representative of the service also drew attention to a non-systemic approach. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed their dissatisfaction with the additional debt, the increase in the budget deficit, the unpredictability of the financial effects of the proposed law, and the large number of provisions leading to a shift from systemic legislation. It was also suggested that the Government should submit all laws governing the budget and public finances, including the taxation laws, in one package, which would help to increase transparency of public finances. The Secretary of State explained that the proposed law contained provisions for which the Government had assessed that they should enter into force before the start of the financial year to which they relate. She stressed that the government is preparing a rebalancing of the 2015 budget, which will be submitted for consideration at the same time as the ZIPRS. The question was also raised about the projected reduction of the average for the financing of municipal tasks in 2015, in which the State Secretary explained that the talks with the municipalities had not yet been concluded and that the government would try to reach agreement with the municipalities by 15 January 2015. The discussion below focused on Article 5 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the proposal for an amendment by the Committee to this Article relating to the amount of claims and the total amount of claims that can be sold without being included in the annual sales programme and without the consent of the National Assembly. More attention has also been paid to Article 6 which allows for an additional deficit in the state budget to the amount of requests for reimbursement of European cohesion policy funds already submitted to the European Commission at the end of 2014. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the proposed amendment to Article 5 in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8. He also accepted the amendments of the coalition groups, but did not accept the amendment of the ZaAB Group of Ambassadors to Article 6 and the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Article 12. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 has become irrelevant. The Committee voted on the articles together and adopted the articles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u41	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Allies' Group, in its name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u42	Have a nice hello to everyone again! At this 3rd regular meeting of the National Assembly, we will obviously deal with and adopt systemic solutions to certain content problems several times. Since the appointment of the government, it has been almost 100 days and today we have already opened the second time the Law on the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budget. In about two months, we and the rebalancing are likely to open the same law for the third time. So in the last six months, we will consider the same law three times, of course, all in the spirit of systemic solutions. And what exactly are we going to accept today? We can narrow the solutions down into a few groups. Those who need to be accepted now and are in a hurry to receive them today. I am talking about the solutions that are the result of the negotiations between the government and the trade unions concerning the expenditure side of the budget. Of course, we all closely monitored the negotiations, which were somewhat unusual. The outcome of these negotiations is almost as good as it would have been if we had already adopted an agreement in July, which was negotiated by another Minister of Public Administration. That was when today's Prime Minister didn't think the deal was good enough. True, even today we do not know exactly what was bothering him at the time, even when we see that he is taking practical identical solutions today. Well, the difference is in the time of year, the minister and also the government that negotiated and adopted this agreement. It's interesting how things turn out in just a few months. The second set of solutions would include two new funds – climate and water and the revenues of these funds. There's nothing to add here. And fees for the pre-audit and audit procedure. There is also a limit to the level of awards for members of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Certainly the content which is not in any way part of the technical law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Solutions for which the Legislative and Legal Service warns that they cause a shift from systemic solutions and have a negative impact on the transparency of the legal system. In our opinion, the third group is one that is somewhat problematic. We are talking here about additional debt, together with an increase in the budget deficit. The reasons presented on the parent’s working body did not fully convince us. On the one hand, of course, we understand that difficulties arise when we have already issued applications for reimbursement of European funds from the European budget at the end of the year and the money is not yet earmarked. For such situations alone, the government would have an additional commitment, but it would not have settled this debt with the same purpose when money from Europe comes into the budget. And that other part of us, of course, bothers us. In this third problem group, there are additional exceptions to the sale of state assets. Here we were disturbed by two matters — the amount of the individual claim subject to such an arrangement, we are talking about 7 million, and the total value of these claims, which fell from 70 million to 30 million on the labour market. The total value has decreased by more than half, and this flexibility in deciding on the total value has surprised us. The arguments, why exceptions and why the exclusion of the National Assembly from the property sale process, did not convince us. In the fourth group, we still have pensions or, more precisely, an annual allowance for 2015. In the Alliance's Group, we have decided to table an amendment, given the systemic and systemic solutions in this bill that we are adopting today. I'm talking about Petrol and having control of the latter's share. We expect to make a decision in this spirit and recognize the importance of Petrol as a society on which it is right for the government to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think otherwise in the coalition, it is only right for the public to know. You cannot say one thing about how important it is to have our property or our economic pearls; and another, to let someone quietly take over Petrol. In view of the debate or your decisions in this regard, we will also decide how we will act in the vote in the ZaAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u43	The SMC Group, Mr Branko Zorman, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u44	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Mir Cerar Party, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the country's budget to be implemented in 2015 in an ongoing and smooth manner. The proposed law establishes a water and climate fund. The proposed amendment abolishes the earmarked items and funds for this purpose will be collected further from the implementation of this law in the budget funds. The law lays down new solutions to cases where a judicial judgment, administrative decision or settlement provides that the obligations of the State must be settled in a number of years. The proposed regulation will, however, show in the year in which the decision or settlement will become legally binding, due to the obligation to pay the deficits of the State sector under the ESA 2010 methodology. However, the deficit of the State budget, which is reflected in the cash flow, will be affected by that decision in the year in which the obligation is actually paid. The law also lays down in which cases capital investments and claims are not required to be included in the annual asset sales programme. The law allows the possibility of additional government budget deficits up to the amount of requests for reimbursement of European cohesion policy funds already submitted to the European Commission at the end of 2014. The law also sets the amount of the annual pension allowance, bearing in mind that the Capital Society of Pensions and Disability Insurance, d.d., will allocate EUR 19 million for this purpose. The Law also amends Articles 49 and 51 of the ZIPRS 2014-2015 in such a way as to ensure that indirect users are always given their consent to the financial plan, the work programme and the human resources plan by the body exercising the rights of the founder. At the same time, an explicit legal basis is laid down for indirect users of state or municipal budgets to be temporarily financed in 2015 until the country's budget rebalancing is adopted or until the municipal budget is adopted. It should also be noted that the amendment to Article 8 contains the addition of Article 51(2), which constitutes the implementation of the agreement on measures to reduce the volume of wage appropriations and other public sector labour costs for 2015, which provides for a reduction in the number of public sector employees by 1%, also for the period January 2015-January 2016. However, the reduction in the number of employees during that period does not apply to budgetary users who reduce their operating costs in 2015 in such a way as to reduce the value of the award to external operators by an equivalent value of 1 % of the employees' labour costs. In the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, we assess the proposed agreement as a positive approach to social communication, but certainly the time it takes to implement structural measures in the public sector and to implement structural reforms that will increase the competitiveness of the economy, employment and higher economic growth. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u45	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask why the second time within one month, amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia should be proposed again. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have not received any direct explanations to convince us why this is absolutely necessary by government representatives. On the other hand, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the purpose of the law governing the implementation of budgets is to implement those solutions that are urgently necessary for the current and smooth implementation of budgets. These provisions should be a necessary and direct condition for the implementation of the budget, in view of the powers of the budgetary users provided for in the financial framework for their operation. Since, contrary to the budget, there are abstract rights and obligations of budgetary users, as set out in Article 5 of the Public Finance Act, the law governing the implementation of the budget should regulate the scope of the debt and any envisaged state guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at national level in a given year and other elements laid down by the Public Finance Act. However, the existing practice of the former and current government is that the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia applies to all other things. It could be said that under the tactics of the current government, this law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia has become a garbage can; what you cannot implement in the budget is what you give in the ZIPRO. I don't think this policy should go on. The second fact is that we have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made comments purely on each Article of the ZIPRO. I have before me the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, where there is more content in comments than in the law itself. And I think that we will not allow this bad practice in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that this is probably one of the key reasons why we will not support the changes and additions to this law. On the other hand, we anticipate that within one month, with the 2015 budget rebalancing, we will also receive a supplement or amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget. What bothers us most about the same proposal? We are most disturbed by Article 5 which provides for the divestment of the state's claims, individual claims without the consent of the National Assembly of up to EUR 7 million. With the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that the individual claim be limited to half a million euros and the total amount of all claims for the entire year of EUR 5 million. The initial proposal of this government was 70 million — a blank currency without the consent of the National Assembly to sell this claim. And what concerns are there for us? On the Committee on Finance, we had a number of questions about these claims, why such high figures of the blank rate are needed for up to 7 million. The Secretary of State has proposed that the meeting may be closed to the public in order to reveal which claims are being claimed, but unfortunately the coalition has not followed this proposal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are interested in what you are hiding, which claim of EUR 7 million will you sell under the table? Are you going to sell under the table or are you going to make public? This is indeed the force of the unusual process of the current coalition. The coalition, which won the elections on the basis of ethics and morality, is now reluctant to disclose, although the Secretary of State agrees that this claim could be disclosed in a closed session. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will re- table this amendment to this proposal or to supplement the amendments to the ZIPRO. Respected, claims are property of the State, claims are property of taxpayers and thus cannot be managed by state assets. On the other hand, we would point out once again that the current government is taking the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a garbage can. Everything you can't put into other marriages, you've decided to put in ZIPRO. And the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is clear. Each proposal, all comments on each article have been made here. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service are, I would say, to a significantly greater extent than the bill itself. And I expect you, Madam Secretary of State, to follow the amendments or to provide an additional explanation during the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u47	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u48	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2014 and 2015. Last month at the meeting of the National Assembly, I presented the position of the Desus Group on the amendment to the 2014 and 2015 Budget Implementation Act, which was adopted simultaneously with the 2014 Budget Rebalance. It is true that this novel was then supported by our side and was not disputed for us, as it was in fact only an implementing regulation for the 2014 budget rebalancing. It is true, however, that I had already warned at this point – the warning was addressed in particular to the government or the competent ministry, namely the finance ministry as the author of these regulations – that the ZIPRO should remain implementing, i.e. the procedural regulation. In the past, we have been received many times, too many times, to interfere with material regulations and the content of individual rights. RTV contribution increase, value added tax determination, pension regress, coordination, hospital, etc. So this is an implementing regulation, and on this occasion I would like to reiterate to the Government that the content matter is the rights and obligations of the individual laws, the individual rules governing these rights and obligations; not the law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, any substantive changes to the rights and obligations in the legislative procedure should be made independently and the law of ZIPro should remain the law of the implementing nature. If I touch very briefly certain indents, certain substantive matters which tangemise that provision. This is a change in the staff plan of indirect budgetary users, which has to be made meaningfully or complemented within the meaning of that minus 1%. Here are the charges laid down in the procurement procedures, which I also think are not disputed in any way. It is an additional debt, as far as EU projects are concerned, up to the amount of requests for reimbursement of cohesion funds. The financial plans of indirect budgetary users should be forwarded within 15 days of the adoption of the balance sheet. Water and climate funds are also defined here. It is the fact that the earmarked funds are poured into those funds and not into individual budget lines. And, of course, an annual allowance for pensioners, which I would like to say a sentence or two about. On this occasion, I would also like to point out the fact that the Desus Group welcomes the government's decision not to include in the text of the draft regulation, I believe that the reduced funding of municipalities would in some way also mean confusion and impossibility before the beginning of 2015 in connection with the adoption of individual budgets of a large number of municipalities in Slovenia. As it is said, I would also like to highlight the content of the proposal, which speaks of the fact that in 2015 it will be paid to pensioners. In this part, Desus made great efforts to ensure that the pensioners received this supplement, and it was the intention at first that there would be no regression this time. It is true that not all pensioners will receive the regression, and all pensioners who are less than €750 will receive it. Our efforts – I believe so – are due to this amount being raised from this year's 622 to 750 euros. We are aware that, today, with such income, it is extremely difficult to survive, so we have advocated the social weakest; because we understand that the budget needs to be closed, and because we understand the public financial situation in which we unfortunately found ourselves; we have also been prepared to accept this compromise somehow. Since it has been a time for me, I would like to be included in the debate on the individual points that have already been highlighted by the opposition's colleagues and are linked to financial assets or the divestment of financial claims. I believe that government representatives will be added again, because apparently there were too few explanations on the parent's working body. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[…]] To conclude, once again, we want to do so in the future, and this should also be a reference for the preparation of a new regulation on the rebalancing of 2015 in order to remain and become only an implementing regulation of the ZIPRO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u49	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, on her behalf Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u50	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! The proposal for a new Law on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015 contains some urgent solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget. It's a custom. It is common for this law to save things that come from the table that life brings. This, of course, reduces transparency, in some ways creates ambiguity and uncertainty; it is difficult to avoid this, according to my practice. It is a permanent task to try to resolve certain matters in sectoral laws, not in some common law; but life brings problems again and again, at least at the time of the outbreak of the major financial crisis, because it is not possible to solve them differently than with such a law as a set of solutions. What kind of solutions are we talking about this time? What would be especially important to me from here? First of all, it is a statement of expenditure on payment of obligations under various judicial and administrative decisions, which are extended over a number of years. Then it is an annual allowance for pensioners of an additional EUR 19 million to be provided by the Capital Society. Then it is about regulating the awards for members of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, it is a charge for pre-audit and audit procedures. The debate on the committee responsible, and also the concerns of Members, in particular came to a halt at the time of Article 5, which is the annual sales programme of the State's financial assets. This is not about equity shares; this is about the claims of the State that have recently accumulated in the face of various regression claims, and the claims made by the State to companies where it has guaranteed different obligations. Therefore, these claims packages are larger than usual, and such amounts have also taken place. After careful consideration, the coalition decided on this relationship, 7 million — one claim, 30 million together, without the government asking the National Assembly further. In this way, it is included in the negotiations of creditors and seeks to achieve the greatest possible result in terms of the fiscal objective, says the budget, which has also been damaged by a guarantee in a certain credit relationship. We believe that the effects on the budget will be positive, and as a coalition party we also trust the government to act as a good host and achieve maximum effects, not only in the short term in terms of payment of claims, but also in terms of maintaining jobs in companies where these guarantees have been given. We are concerned about the reduction in the number of employees in the public sector by 1%, we do not share the enthusiasm of some other groups of Members; vice versa. This is a measure that will harm the young generation directly and quickly. But to everyone else because of the trouble of changing generations later and even more painful. Sooner or later, this will be shown to the whole population in public sector services. The public sector will become human resources, there will be no fresh ideas or fewer and young ideas. Young people won't be able to mess themselves up in a way that they should be mutilated in some normal transition of generations. We respect this provision because it has been defined by the Economic and Social Council in an agreement on budgetary policy this year. It is compensated, as already mentioned in the introduction to the SMC, by a specific measure, that there is no need to reduce the number of employees if payments are to be reduced to external operators and, however, it is possible to switch generations in individual sectors. In future, such regulations are unlikely to make sense. Here we expect young people to be included in the negotiations of the Economic and Social Council; if not in the delegation of the country. Finally, what is not in the proposal is also important: the government has withdrawn the requirement to reduce funds for local self-government and extended the negotiations. We expect that these negotiations will deliver results and that the 2015 proposal for a rebalancing will be effective and acceptable to local communities as well. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you. The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the Secretary of State and the well-respected choir! After almost five months of the work of the National Assembly and three months of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we can say that the government has taken over itself in creating conditions that require the adoption of extraordinary laws by emergency procedures. What else should we think about the law by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia once again derogates from certain types of sectoral legislation and unduly increases certain powers? Two substantive and one principled question must be raised in the law. Firstly, why does the government increase the power of ownership in companies? Obviously because the government believes that it is "essentially that after the restructuring the Republic of Slovenia will exit business ownership as soon as possible", the end of the quote. This is contrary to the principles of the government coalition itself, which, in the coalition agreement, stated that it advocates, again, "smart privatisation," the end of the quote. In the view of the United Left, it is not essential that, after restructuring, the Republic of Slovenia withdraws from the ownership of companies as soon as possible; it is essential that companies operate well. The only acceptable privatisation would be labour acquisitions for us; certainly not that companies are left to the mercy and mercy of hostile takeovers, as in the case of Helios. Another time. With this reason, the requirement to reduce the number of public servants in 2015 and 2016 linearly by 1%, for all indirect and direct budgetary users, as stated in the law. With the logic of economic operators, i.e. managers and capital owners, it is necessary to sacrifice a few more public servants after they have lost tens of thousands of jobs in the private sector. This logic is completely flawed. Private sector workers have not lost their jobs because they would be too busy in the public sector. Services were lost because of the crisis of global capitalism, because of a government that had not taken action against the financial and investment overheating of the economy before the crisis, and because of this same management, which has extended to the Western Balkans and the management acquisitions, to the same extent as they are now called today. By blindly forgiving people in the public sector, you will not achieve anything other than the deterioration of their services. Once again, you will have to hurt the indignant workers, as the leaders will not forgive the employees indefinitely, but they will no longer extend the contracts to the employees for a certain period of time. There are disproportionately many young people and women among them. The number of public servants in Slovenia is neither exclusive nor too high. Once again, it is clear that public sector employees do not consume the work of private sector employees. If you fire these 3,000 and a few employees, it won't give him any of the jobs of just over 115 thousand unemployed. This will only increase unemployment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may have forced such an agreement in trade unions, but the United Left is of course not a union. We don't agree to linear forgives. Maybe there are too many people working at the Ministry of Defence and in the Slovenian Army, but in the health system and much less. Instead of forgiving public servants, make sure that they are able to do their job well. Start at the Ministry of Finance writing laws. I will put an end to the fundamental problem of this law, which concerns the level of democratic rights in this country. Last year, one third, unfortunately now absent, supported the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which prevents citizens from deciding, among other things, on the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. At that time, you reasoned that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget was a technical document that did not affect the content of the State's operation. You now regulate or encroach on this law a number of matters which fall within the regional laws and which, even after this consecration of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are still among those matters which citizens have the right to decide directly. Nor do you heed the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service – and this personally grieves me very much. After all, we have a coalition where the legal lobby dominates, but we are making even more of a legal stunt. On the whole, the United Left Group will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, in its name Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! You're already familiar with the introduction. After one month, when we decided to amend the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, we again received a new amendment and a supplement to this Act; new amendments and additions to this Act will certainly be made to the tables again next month, when the Balance of Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an exclusive school example of a non-systemic approach to finding systemic solutions. The proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2014 and 2015 interferes with the content of various areas governed by system rules, from the Law on Slovenian State Holding, the Law on Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Waters and so on. Although this is not a major change in these areas, and although it is a measure that has a limited duration of validity, such an amendment has an impact on the transparency and clarity of legislation, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out in its opinion. Christian Democrats, in their views, are constantly reminding us that too often amending legislation does not contribute to greater legal certainty, especially if it is not a major substantive change; it is introducing further confusion into the system. We strongly oppose such an approach to amending legislation. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for this time and the addition of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 cannot be supported. In Nova Slovenije, we are also concerned about the announced changes in the financing of municipalities for the following year – in particular about the projected additional reduction in the funds of the average and also of the funds for co-financing of investments. As we know, in the current law, the average for 2015 is already lower than the average for this year, which amounts to €525, while in this year's year 2014 it was €536 per capita. Although the proposed amendment is not yet included in the current proposal for amendments and the addition of this law. Following an explanation by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, negotiations on the level of the average with representative associations of municipalities are still ongoing and final decisions in this area are not yet available; they are to be known by 15 January. We stress that it means lowering funds for the financing of municipalities de facto abolishing municipalities, in particular of smaller municipalities. As we know, in recent years, municipalities have financed the bulk of investments in the country, of course through co-financing from European Union funds. To finance investments, municipalities had to be in debt and now have outstanding obligations to banks. Already implemented, i.e. the realisation of the reduction in investment co-financing to municipalities by as much as 50% – from 4% to 2% – means that municipalities will no longer be able to settle their liabilities to banks and also do not provide funds to finance those projects for which they already have contracts with operators; this means that the majority of investments in the country are stagnating and, as a result, the decline in economic growth. Christian Democrats are therefore calling on the government to withdraw the planned reduction in funding for municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Please check the voting devices. We're starting the application. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you for your floor. In the introductions, I might suggest that the State Secretary provide further clarification on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The legislative opinion of the Legal Service is a comment on each article of this amendment or the amendment of the law, where the reasons are, and how the State Secretary comments that they have drawn up such a bad law in the Government or in the Ministry. And why is everything that the government invents involved in this ZIPRO? What you can't put in other marriages, you put in this marriage. On the other hand, we would like to comment on this amendment made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This amendment foresees that the sale of claims without the consent of the National Assembly reduces the individual claim to half a million euros and to a total of 5 million euros. The original government proposal was a single claim of 7 million, a total claim of 70 million euros. Respectable, respected – €70 million is a considerable amount. Sometimes it is still difficult for the country to find 20, 50 000 euros for any emergency, for the recovery after the natural disaster that Slovenia has experienced with the floods; and here the government would have adopted a blank 7 million euros individual claim and an initial 70 million euro proposal. I am also interested in the reason why, after a constructive debate on the Committee on Finance, you requested a half-life. And after half an hour, you dropped the issue from 70 million to 30 million euros. That means you're quite a retailer, 70 million, 30 million, and you haven't given a reason. But you didn't want to lower the individual claims. The individual claim remained €7 million, which was a shock for the Slovenian Democratic Party. It was also a shock, of course, that, in the debate, the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, was prepared to disclose the name of the claim at a closed meeting and why this claim would be sold. But the coalition voted 6:7 that the meeting should not be closed and that this matter is not important to the opposition. I'd like to know what you're hiding and what your claim is. It's a 7 million-euro debt that you're going to sell. That was clearly told to us. Your Honor, you have said that you are for deliberate privatisation, that you are for transparent privatisation; but today we all know that by purchasing the claim you can also buy the company or that you have an important influence in the company. Dear Secretary of State, I expect explanations from you. In the debate, I also expect coalition Members and Members to state the reasons why they voted against the meeting closing and the Secretary of State revealing the claim here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I think we have a second change or confirmation of the amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget today. In presenting the opinions of the groups of Members, the predecessors presented this error of the government following the fire-fighting measures, rather than systematically changing matters, jumping from one law to another and seeking, and hoping that this would bring a solution to the Government's aimless weakening in times of difficult macroeconomic conditions. What we have before us today is essentially the first direct account or bill to form a coalition – €19 million. If the coalition has agreed on 40 million at the time, this time we have a discount of 19 million euros from Desus – the first cost of this government. And secondly, the obvious direction taken by this ruling coalition, whenever it comes to the issue of the property of the Republic of Slovenia, is clearly less transparent for this government, more important than pure transparency and awareness of all the measures it intends to take. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 5 was also intended for this purpose, which was presented briefly by colleague Pogačnik. If, on the one hand, we heard about the student work in the previous debates about how the government will use students' pockets to drain 50 million euro of extra money; this goes from the state budget for pensioners to an additional 19 million euros. So from a generation that will create added value, to a generation that has its own representative in the government and therefore has significantly better negotiating points to move forward. If we read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, he says, among other things, he criticises or expresses serious doubts about the way in which the decisions of this government coalition are taken, and he writes precisely in Article 5 that exceptions to the system's regime endanger legal certainty and thus the rule of law. Furthermore, in order to determine the investments by which SDH does not carry out its activities, it may jeopardise the purpose set out in Article SDH-1, paragraph 2, of the SDH-1 Act. This is today exactly the third law or amendment of the law, where the Law and Law Service, in the same words, warns the ruling coalition – by adopting non-systemic solutions in non-territorial laws you introduce further confusion and additional confusion in the legal order of Slovenia. And the greatest absurdity of the whole story is, this is done by a ruling coalition led by a lawyer who announced his march to power by fighting against such a way of working. Today, for the third time in a row, we have adopted laws that the Legislative and Legal Service has identified as a threat to the system's legal order and system-wide regulation of matters. The second issue is precisely the point at which the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled its amendment. It is clearly a fully-timed approach by the ruling coalition, which has a single investment divestment plan, EUR 7 million; it is therefore ready to overrun all its principles, which it has included in the coalition contract, which are, however, becoming less active in front of the cameras, but still advocates. This desire to divest 7 million investments is so strong that it was willing to let go even at a total of 70 to 30, but not for that investment for 7 million euros. If I had your words – before you were elected to this National Assembly and before you won the elections, in particular this is referred to the Party of Mir Cerar, after a new transparent moral and ethical work at the level of the Government – you would have accepted your vote as dry gold on the Committee 7:6 if that investment were not discussed at the closed session of the Committee, then I would have believed that today you would either tell yourself or the respected Secretary of State what the investment was. And you will also tell why it is so important that this exception is introduced into ZIPRO, and why it is necessary to take rapid action beyond the system regime. Maybe after that you'll convince us, maybe it's such a good deal, that even we'll vote for it, even though I strongly doubt it. But once again, come with these words a day, say what kind of investment it is, and not then hide behind some expressions such as to reduce efficiency in order to prevent a rapid response to the market. Because you have a comfortable majority, not least you regularly convene extraordinary meetings and you can bring a matter through the parliamentary procedure within ten days. Since you have been in power for 89 days, 10 days is not such a problem to justify hiding and selling under the table, which is precisely what this amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget is forecasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I was also surprised by the Committee on Finance that the ruling coalition in a closed session was not ready to tell us what to do with our common money where there was no public. That's very unusual. I think it would be right for us to hear the opinion of Members not only of the Secretary of State, but above all the opinions of Members of the ruling coalition, why such a secret. I also said to the Committee that I understand that times are such that it is necessary to act quickly if we are to continue to take things in the right direction; so that we do not have a problem with taking certain things quickly. But we can't possibly agree that everything has to be so secret. Perhaps you, respected colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, know more than we do; you might want to tell us why. Of course, I will be fighting the second day alone, not the second day — I have been fighting the coalition for 14 days to prevent the silent takeover of Petrol, and unfortunately few members of the coalition can hear me. Speaking of state property, you are colleagues in the coalition, in fact, in conflict with yourself. On the one hand, you say that state property is important, that it is important what happens to our economic pearls. But unfortunately these are just words, actions show something completely different. On the table, you have an amendment that would allow the government – once again, I stress the government, not the opposition, or perhaps the Alenka Bratušek, but the current government – to prevent the silent takeover of Petrol. To prevent someone quietly, in the way we lost Istrabenz, Mercury, Mercator, from becoming the owner of the control share in the company. It is very difficult to understand that as a member of the opposition, I must convince you to support and give this amendment to the government, to the government, the opportunity to prevent it. It's hard, I don't know if anyone can understand that. And please, don't reject this amendment with arguments about systemic or non-systemic solutions. Because, in fact, all the articles you are going to adopt today under the law on budget implementation are completely non-systemic and so says the Law-Legal Service. Yesterday, your Prime Minister, Mr Cerar, convinced me that you cannot support this, because this is a non-systemic solution. That, I'll say, but it's kind of humiliating for this national assembly and also for people who listen to us. You can do anything non-systematic. If necessary, I will say that I can agree with this in some way; but not then sell and reject all of our things with an argument that it is not systemic, that it is handicrafted solutions. If you really care about state property, if you really care about not allowing Petrol to do what has happened to some of our other economic pearls, I will name them, and today we know where they are – in bankruptcy. Those who did so, more or less after imprisonment or at least in criminal proceedings. It's your responsibility. Our Group of Members has only four Members, we cannot accept this alone. And once again, you will give the government of Mira Cerar the right and the opportunity to prevent it. As I told the president yesterday, it'll be too late to ring the bell. And when these things unfold, neither crying nor groaning helped, but what happened to some of our companies will happen to Petrol. I urge you to support this amendment and help us manage our property rationally. It's really strange that I, as an opposition MP, have to ask you to do this, but okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Two things are currently happening, first of all with regard to the melting of the current government. The current government of tava in the growth of exports, this is the first data, reached plus 9% in October. It was 9% higher than it was last year. With the growth of employment, 10,000 new jobs were created from September to September this year. When unemployment declines, by November this process continues, it is necessary to look at the annual data, as the season is strong, by about 3 000 that number has decreased. Because it's the government? Tava in balancing the public financial balance. And where did this imbalance arise? In the case of unfortunate tax cuts – first in 2007, when it was understandable and then again in April 2012, when it was completely unrealistic not to say childish; which is, we can say, in defence or in favour of those who have reduced these rates, this is the rate of income and profit tax, according to the domestic tax on the income of legal persons; it is that they did not expect negative effects on the public financial balance and, consequently, on recession. What I wanted to say, however, is with regard to Article 5, which is now under discussion. What kind of relationship is this? This is the relationship between the loans made by the State when the guarantees fell, and the State should have settled because it guaranteed certain proportions. The company went bankrupt, became insolvent and insolvent. The State now has an application for this company when it settled the creditor, and this is a regression request. She's entered that creditor's position. In this case, of course, there is no control stake here. The company is in big trouble, looking for partners to put it back on its feet and save jobs. In this context, the sale of claims, together with other claims, is hoped that the company, with the appropriate actions, including the state and the Ministry of Field Affairs, can continue to operate. And here the government must have some flexibility and some autonomy. And at least we as a coalition party trust the government to act as a good master. From here this support for this decision. It is not just one claim, it is a hidden claim, it is expected to have more of the outstanding loans created in the state guarantee process. This will also partly be paid by the state, which will improve the budgetary picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Now that we've already begun with the question of where this government is going. This government melts in mist and darkness. In the fog and in the darkness, as this is, after all, reflected through the proposals for laws proposed by the National Assembly. The Law on amending the Law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015 is a typical example of this government melting in mist and darkness. In fact, it does not know what would or does not have any strategy that could be shown in at least some outline, so here the proposed partial measures – partial measures from the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, to measures in the area of pensions, in the area of privatisation, sale of claims and so on. I am glad if any information indicates that this country is doing better and that people are doing better in particular. However, on the other hand, this government is likely to have some action and some of the tasks that it will have to do; not because of the tax reform in 2007, but because since 2008, 2009, 2010, and so on, it has been spending more than it has actually generated. And it just increased from 8 billion to 30 billion between 2008 and this year. How and why and where is the benefit of this responsibility for people now? He's nowhere, and that's the worst of my personal opinion. We are talking about the law and amendment to Article 5, where the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to reduce the amounts, both one-off and one-off for sale of individual claims. If the amount of sales is higher, then the government must come to the National Assembly — and that is the essence of it all. First of all, here was the total amount that was valid and proposed by the Government, 70 million and for each claim, I think, 10 million. This has now decreased to 7 million for each claim and 35 million for the total amount. But what do these amounts actually show? They show that the government on the one hand does not have a privatisation programme, does not have a classification of investments, does not come to Parliament with a privatisation investment classification programme; on the other hand, in these, invisible ways, a little less visible way to privatise and sell the economy. In fact, through sales or purchases of claims, new owners set up a new management, here we can also talk about state or parastatal shares; and in this way we actually come to the point that privatisation is being done. You know, this is sand in the eyes, of course you can all be against that the Slovenian Democratic Party advocates some greater privatisation of banks and the economy, as well as a greater role for the private sector. Yes, he comes to Parliament, he does it transparently, and he says, "Here you go, we're ready to talk about this." Mira Cerar's client does so quietly. This makes the economy untransparent and quietly privatised through these claims. And it's actually doing what should be done in a transparent way. Most of this is that we, Members and Members of the opposition, have no right to know who will buy any individual claim because it is prevented by Members of the Party of Mir Cerar; while the government even agrees and says, at a closed session, we are prepared to tell you who is behind the claim of 7 million. This is what Secretary of State Dragonja said at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Close the session and we'll tell you. It was then decided whether or not the meeting would be closed for the public. But the position at the head of the Mir Cerar Party, which advocates ethics, transparency, morality in business, simply votes against such a decision. What are you hiding? What are you hiding?Oh, my God! And who will benefit from this? Tell me who will benefit from this! This is some very strange business to actually prevent Members from knowing which claim is actually being sold. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is the purpose and such a rule, which on the one hand speaks of great transparency, morality and so on; on the other hand, all works under carpets, hides data, although the government says, yes, we will suggest it, we will say who it is; and the Members do not. Here I don't even know whether the government has a majority of you or not; you are acting differently than the Secretary of State, who is a government official, who is a political city, but you are voting differently. Okay. It's just here to stop talking about transparency and ethics, about how it's a new wind and stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you tell us why we need to hide some 7 million claims and how much discount is here? How much is such a claim actually worth? How much is the discount? 70%, 60, 50? This is not going to be 7 million, but it's probably going to be a bigger claim. Tell me what company this is about. You can close the session and tell me. You can convene another meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. You can do anything today to operate transparently; but unfortunately, it does not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to reduce these amounts, and we are particularly in favour of making privatisation transparent and in the way it is actually affected. To make privatisation easy in Slovenia, we will know who will buy each company, under what conditions, and that it is actually done. With regard to the other provisions – I will say that it is another speed and probably some kind of sleazy behavior. See, even if we look at, for example, Article 61, where we are talking about a provision relating to the need for budgets to be delivered to the Public Records Agency. Yeah, now we're gonna put two words in there. We will let in that the state budget balance and municipal budgets must be delivered to the Agency. Because you're missing two words. Until when? Look, the mayors are coming back and they're gonna say we don't know when or what year. That's lame. As is already the case, the law can be perfectly clear, but because some mayors have said, yes, whose budgets have now added some explanatory words and so on. But it still doesn't say when to give it to the Agency, which year. By the year 2060? Legally this is again possible, and next time we will get a new law, we will get the Budget Implementation Act again, where even an anniversary may be written and for which budget. In short, it is the government of Mir Cerar, who is probably the Ministry of Finance. A small provision, a minor provision that could be implemented today, will not be implemented today, nor will it be with the budget adopted today, as everyone will ask again, until when. In short, this is how the government gives itself a job, in this way a mop of holes; it does not come with some program, it does not come with some solutions that actually benefit not only the government, but especially citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you. I give the floor to a representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Before I focus on the two amendments tabled, allow me to make some general explanations about other provisions of the law mentioned in the previous debates, because they simply need to be mentioned in order to give you and the public accurate information. First of all, as regards the annual allowance for pensioners and the supplementary payments in this respect under this proposal. It is not true that the State budget for pension funds is increasing, but that the law expressly provides that funds for an annual allowance of 19 million shall be provided by the Capital Company, which, in any event, has a provision under the SDH Act that certain funds must be provided annually for the financing of pension funds. Furthermore, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has been mentioned several times. It is indeed extensive and detailed; it is very detailed and detailed in its interpretation of the individual findings. And it is true that some of the findings have been repeated for several years, but these same findings have been made by all governments, regardless of which side of this national assembly we are looking at today. At the same time, it is worth noting, however, that all the provisions included in this bill have a direct or direct impact on the revenue and expenditure side of the State budget; and I say that they are important for the implementation of the budget in the following year. Perhaps just that, with regard to the amendment to Article 61. If we read this paragraph or this article in isolation, then we are asked the question, as asked by Member Shircelj. However, if we take into account all the other legislation that specifies exactly when the final accounts or annual reports should be submitted to Apes, then there is no doubt in this regard. Let me now focus on Article 5 of the bill, and first of all, I will focus on the existing content of the bill, where solutions under the second paragraph of the proposed amendment to Article 39 are challenged. First of all, I would like to point out that this change relates to claims rather than capital investments, which means that the integration of this provision with the transparency of privatisation is not in place. At the same time, I would also like to warn the Member that it wrongly states that the initial amount of the individual investment should be EUR 10 million – this is not true. The original proposal that the individual amount of the claim that could be sold should amount to 7 million was the same from the start. It is true, however, that we have already said in the debate on the parent committee that it is very difficult to assess the extent of such claims that would be appropriate to be resold in a given calendar year. This led to the initial imposition of a rather broad framework of 70 million. After the discussion, we found that we could set a lower amount at the moment. If, in the course of the implementation of the provision, it were demonstrated that a greater amount of State claims could be made available in this way, this provision could in fact be corrected. Why is this provision important? At the moment, the State may enforce its claim either by means of normal enforcement or by converting this claim into a capital share. Of course, it can also be cancelled or cancelled, but this is certainly inappropriate or an option that can only be applied in exceptional cases. This provision allows the State not only to enforce an individual claim in bankruptcy proceedings, through enforcement forcible settlement or convert it into a capital share, but also to resell it. This is a normal way of managing its claims in the business world and, if this provision is not adopted, the state will not be able to act in this way. And to a number of companies that have experienced difficulties, even because of the debt they owe to the country, they will not be able to help them through appropriate procedures to emerge from their own crisis and continue to operate successfully, but will have to participate in the bankruptcy of such a company. The recovery or payment of the claim in bankruptcy proceedings or forcible recovery, we know that he was generally a prick. We therefore assess that it is appropriate to allow the Government to provide a mechanism whereby it can, on the one hand, assist economic operators, companies; and, on the other hand, provide additional inflows from the sale of claims, which would otherwise very likely remain largely unpaid. In most cases, claims of guarantees or loans, in particular guarantees, could be managed to a limited extent in this way also in respect of claims made in respect of tax debt. There are specific restrictions already laid down by the Public Finance Act. I cannot support the proposed amendment of the SDS Group. Unfortunately, for reasons that have also been explained on the Committee on Finance, I cannot provide more detailed explanations on the specific claims for which this instrument could help pay them. With regard to the second amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek would like to point out that this amendment relates to a specific company, namely Petrol. As a justification, it is argued that the old Energy Act contained Article 56, which limited or stipulated that operators of the public service in energy activities should have in their founding acts provisions allowing for the acquisition of a controlling share in the company’s core capital only with the consent of the Government. Let me point out that Petrol does not perform public economic services in energy activities. Therefore, even if this provision of the Energy Act existed, the new Energy Act could not apply to control or control the ownership of Petrol’s shares. Furthermore, it will not overemphasize that the state in Petrol does indeed have a capital share of 24,87 %, but this capital share does not belong to the Republic of Slovenia directly but indirectly through ownership of SDH and Kad. For this reason, it raises a reasonable question whether, beyond the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the State or the Government can thus interfere with the establishment of ownership structures and, last but not least, with the capital investments of individuals. As a lawyer, I also question whether the proposed solution is consistent with the constitutional provision on freedom of economic initiative and with the constitutional provisions on the protection of property rights. In the light of the amendment proposed above, I cannot support Article 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mag. Andrej Shircelj wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you so much for the replica. First of all, with regard to Article 61 and, in terms of, say, administrative insignificances in particular. We could know all this today, if we could, but it looks like we're not going, and then something's being administered in half again. Here's the thing. However, with regard to transparency, if it is your decision that a budget user should go to watch five rules in order to get a date if this cannot be done in one case. Nevertheless, it is only evident that, according to the local crocheting of how these regulations work in the government of Mira Cerar or in the Ministry of Finance; in short, more by half logic. Second thing I'd like to say, Madam Secretary of State, please tell me which company this is about. Tell me which company this is about, and the matter will be perfectly clear. For that 7 million. My colleague Pogačnik has already asked you to tell us in a transparent manner what company this is about. Because it's exactly one company, that 7 million. Be transparent and tell me. How to buy a company through claims – I think they probably teach it in the second, third year of the Faculty of Economics, but otherwise in all the newspapers, you have all the analyses of how to become the owner through some claim, because it is simply not sold. The fact that someone doesn't own it, you know, reality is completely different. Reality is completely different! The claim actually buys the company today. The talk about it, Madam Secretary of State, that this is not about privatisation, this is sand in the eyes. Sand in the eyes! This is actually about selling state claims, if you want, which someone will buy and, of course, send some or all of the owners of a company. We have a company to manage bank claims that changes ownership right through claims, if we're looking at the system, what kind of system it's made of. Two, three transactions you need, and that's what you do. At the Ministry of Finance, I think, too, who knows how this is actually done. And this is about sand in your eyes, and I think it's about privatisation, which is untransparent. I'm not against privatisation. It's just untransparent. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you. He wanted more magic on a case-by-case basis. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u70	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We're spinning again like a cat around hot porridge. The Secretary of State said she couldn't tell me what claim it was. The State Secretary of the Committee on Finance was prepared to disclose this claim at a closed meeting, but the coalition did not vote on the closed meeting. This is an important matter and I do not know why you cannot support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are not opposed to the fact that a country with some agreement can resell a claim, but to a certain amount. And as my colleague Shircelj has already said, by purchasing the claim, you will also become the owner of the company. This is a quiet privatisation you don't want to expose. Tell me if it's the company of Elan or any other company. Within 10 days, you can make such a proposal to the National Assembly and the National Assembly. I don't know why you're going to such a hideout. The amount of claims for 7 million, I think that's quite a sum. However, we do know that this claim came from a guarantee given by the State. Now we don't know if this claim is already a discount, at what values it will be sold, it can be sold for less, or whether this claim has already been made with a discount. Madam President, I propose that we adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour, that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy be convened in the meantime, and that the Secretary of State at the closed meeting indicate the claim. And if we are to assess here that this is so important that, due to the rehabilitation and business restructuring of enterprises, non-sales of claims could result in job losses or even insolvency proceedings or the like, I am sure that we will support the matter in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose it. But we are opposed to some of the hiding places that this government of Mira Cerar is going to. Madam Vice-President, I propose that we suspend the meeting to convene the Committee on Finance to speak on the Committee on Finance. However, if this is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, because I see that you are already studying what you will say, under which article of my proposal it will not be possible to put to the vote; but I suggest that we close the meeting of the National Assembly for the Public – that is, because we have already had several such cases – and let us say what claim this is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you. Thus, you have proposed that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 4, treat this at a closed meeting, without the presence of the public. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u72	I have made an introductory proposal to suspend the meeting, to convene the Committee on Finance in the meantime and to inform the Secretary of State at the closed session of the Committee on Finance. However, since I have seen that you are already looking through the Rules of Procedure, which article you will interpret to me that you will say, Sir Pogačnik, this cannot be done by this and this Article of the Rules of Procedure, I have given an additional opportunity to close the meeting of the National Assembly at this point to the public and to say so. I think that's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure – yes, I have sought provisions that travel what the work of the National Assembly is in this regard. If you suggest that this should be discussed at a meeting without public presence, we must close the meeting to the public and take a decision on this at a closed meeting of the National Assembly. That's why I'm taking half a vacation until 12.40. We will then decide on this in the closed session of all of us, Members and Members, to close the meeting and to discuss what you have proposed. We'll continue the meeting at 12.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u74	Dear colleagues, others present! We continue to discuss Article 5 and the amendments proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 Anybody else want to discuss this? There's still a desire to discuss it. I suggest you sign up. The word has Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Only the vote we witnessed is evidence of the two-faced conduct of this coalition. In individual laws in this national assembly, we hear that we need to talk, we need to talk, we need to talk, we need to have a broader debate, and some of the others need to rush away from citizens and away from transparency in an unreasonable hurry. This non-systemic approach to solving is a problem, a multifaceted problem. The first is that we are interested in what is happening to these 7 million, respectable. This is of interest both to the opposition and to the citizens. What's going on? What are you hiding? And it is not true that this is not a covert privatisation; of course it is. On the one hand, we are fighting to see that the privatisation will be made in a transparent way and that, of course, would also help the country and you are hiding it. And these aren't small amounts. Remember what you did with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party when we discussed aid in the flood areas. You've turned everything down if we're tossing some change. Today we're talking about 7 million that you can cover up a lot of things. Next time, according to your way of working, I'm sorry, I wouldn't be surprised if this number could be replaced by just a billion. Who's gonna stop you from doing what?Oh, my God! You are not stopped by the initiative to talk about it, to discuss it and to know what it is. And on the other hand, I would like to point out that there is no reason to rush. You need less than 10 days to change legislation, less than 10 days. And by constantly interfering with this law, you also prevent its enforcement — constantly. You've already put everything in there that suits you, and of course it's a year's work. Surely the unacceptable attitude and way of working do not reflect what you promised the citizens. And I really don't know why you're doing this or who you're going after in this case. I hope that the citizens will find out sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For the first time, two responses would be used as a privatisation term for the divestment of claims. Privatisation is of course a change, a transformation of ownership, when ownership is state-owned, into private. It is usually also related to deregulation, to the market autonomy of the privatising entity. In this case, more efficient management is expected, since the entity is sovereign, the company is sovereign and better looking for business opportunities, it is structured according to market needs and so on. What we as a Parliament have forgotten to prevent is a sale. No one sells airports and Telekoms to their competitors because it is clear that they will be dismantled in the synergies processes, limit their development potentials, reduce employment opportunities and eventually reduce the level of supply. We see in the neighborhood how this happened. What we're talking about here is the collapse of a privatised company, a private enterprise that was in debt, the state tried to help with the guarantee schemes or for some time postponed the payment of taxes; and now this is settled when the collapse came to terms. This collapse is what life brings. It's always going to happen. Now it's happening in slightly larger packages because of the guarantee schemes, not because of the tax debt, and that's why these amounts came in. This is not just a business, of course there is expected to be more of these companies, and the government is expected to find a solution here so that as many jobs will be kept and businesses will be maintained. As a coalition party, we trust the government to find these solutions. Secondly, I would respond to the opinion of the esteemed Madam Secretary of State on Petrol. Petrol is, of course, an infrastructure company, an important owner of oil derivative warehouses in Slovenia – Sermina. This is how to offer around as a right to private property – it is a right, but in a diversified society, without being taken over by God knows who. Besides, he owns Geoplin. Geoplin owns the pipelines, and that's the control owner. In addition, with its supply of liquid fuels or petroleum derivatives, as you wish, it covers an important part of the Slovenian market and controls are also established here. It is important that this company remains independent and that it also has transparently dispersed ownership and that the State is inside a minority owner, as it is, that the company remains so. If that were the case, there is no doubt about it, otherwise we would have taken it. It's on the menu because it's just, if I say it's in a noose, it's a money factory. You've seen how the company got rid of it after that unfortunate government 2004-2008 had an irrational management, too expensive to buy Istrabenz shares, and the company could issue bonds and come out of trouble. None of the other, or of the few, are companies that would have been able to get rid of such large negatives as was then due to certain procedures that were not, of course, in honour of this company. I appeal to the establishment here, however, of a state to stand up for this company and to ensure its continued sovereignty so that it is not taken over. What an amendment this is, and I don't understand. What they gave me from the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek is something about drawing on European funds. I don't know if our services missed him. I do not know what we will vote on in this regard today. In any event, I would agree that the coalition, or even more broadly, would support the return of this article, which prevents the acquisition of Petrol, to its dispersed ownership and then to be sold under scattered ownership.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you, Chairman. I was embarrassed by the response of the distinguished Secretary of State when she taught the Members about the two subjects under discussion; first about the non-systematic integration of all possible solutions into the law on the implementation of the budget and then Article 5, which is clearly becoming an increasingly infamous article of the lack of transparency of the Government of Mir Cerar. Madam Secretary of State, the inclusion of all possible proposals in ZIPRO was based on the fact that all governments had already put such measures in the budget enforcement law before the time. However, she forgot to mention that, since the last four governments, State Secretary Vraničar's secretary of state in the three governments of the Ministry of Finance had been respected, which means that she spoke with this argument about her unwise work in the past and that, with this non-systemic work in the hierarchy, at the top of the Ministry of Finance or just under the summit, she has established this practice that she intends to continue. As far as Article 5 is concerned, it is clear to my colleague Križanič that the company is concerned. Apparently, he knows it's four claims. If you have reduced the total value from 70 million to 30 million while doing everything you can to maintain the value of a single sale to 7 million, it means that you have four companies in the plan, four sales of claims up to 7 million; that is, a total of 28 million and some change. However, it is slightly underestimating by the Secretary of State when it explains that it is a necessary measure. It stated that the State would not be able to act otherwise and would not be able to help the economy or individual entities to survive on the market without appropriate measures. Obviously, it is an epochal discovery, which has only been made possible by the government of Mir Cerar, that there were no such solutions before, and that it was necessary for a moral theologian and a lawyer to be at the head of the government, that such measures could be taken — despite the fact that they are contrary to a healthy view of the legal system and despite being reminded of by the Legislative and Legal Service — they have obviously become the only real measures to save businesses. As I understand the Secretary of State, all the efforts made so far by all governments have been unsuccessful and businesses have failed precisely because there were no such measures. But be careful – claims! Here is the main question at which discount rate you will sell these claims; perhaps from friends to better ones, and from others to more reliable ones. And who will be the one to check it out? If we, Members, could decide on this, citizens and citizens would have strong assurance that, at least in terms of discount rates, appropriate transparency is ensured. However, since such decisions are hidden behind the supposed only possible measures allowing the government to rescue individual economic operators, I cannot avoid the view that such action or taking such measures or decisions is more intended to allow any other entrepreneur, an economic operator, any claim that belongs to, say, important influential individuals who have already been present for the ruling coalition, to make it possible for personal or entrepreneurial survival in the future. It is incomprehensible that members of the coalition in this place vote not to get acquainted with anything; that they vote for being ignorant in the future. To vote that they do not need to know which claims will be sold. Sorry, but we have been elected by the electorate and the electorate to act as guardians of the legitimate implementation of the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Not because we're ignorant and don't know what the government is taking. 28 Members are those who want to be informed and obviously 45 are those who do not care what happens to claims owned by the Republic of Slovenia. And if the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister is willing to say why at least the Members of the Party of Mir Cerar, who swears to the highest moral-ethic standards, are on your own – well, I don't know if it's alone, maybe someone ordered it for you – but you agree in a mustache that you don't know. This is probably because the vote was carried out in secret, without the public. But say it again, say it again! There I see that the Mir Cerar Party still has all the time to make its views available. Get up, say, "I don't care where 7 million goes," say it! Tell that to the public. Tell me you don't give a shit how, at what discount rate, the government sells its claims. Tell me! Or will you again claim that you trust the government that it is doing well, that you have given it your mandate; and at the same time, when the accounts arrive and when it is published, who it is, you have become aware that you really did not know it. Today you have the opportunity to ask the government to tell you where 7 million are going. They obviously don't want to say anything from the Ministry of Finance. The Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister is ready to say, but behind closed doors. My friend Križanič obviously knows because he has already announced that there are more companies and he does not want to say. And then you expect the opposition to be constructive and support the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What we are monitoring today is a 180-degree facility of promise, which is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, and a promise that you went to the 2014 elections. Day after day, every proposal, every novel, every non-systemic solution, violates exactly the principles that you have put on the pedestal of the new moral-ethical doctrines of the Mir Cerar Party. If this is a perfectly normal way of doing business for Members of the Mir Cerar Party, given that you have only been established for 120 days, fine; but what about the other coalition partners. Are you happy to accept the doctrine of the desire for ignorance?Oh, my God! Perform the parliamentary profession by drilling, reporting and allowing the Slovenian public to know about all plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because only then will it be able to make a real assessment of the work of this government. And until all 90 members of the national assembly want a transparent part of the government, so no matter what, you are ours, yours, so long in Slovenia we will have a negative connotation about politics, because obviously according to your doctrine – because this is our thing, I don't want to know. We once again call on the Slovenian Democratic Party to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The government gives exactly free hands for rapid action, the government has an appropriate coalition majority for rapid adoption in individual solutions. Colleagues have been mentioned and you will be accepted for 10 days and the Slovenian public will receive the relevant information. Once again, today I expect Members and the Slovenian public to know which company it is for, who, whose claim for EUR 7 million is the one you want to sell. If you have anything to do with the transparent functioning of the government and if you want to maintain some credibility ahead of pre-election time, we will, of course, hear that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u81	Your Honor! Repetio mother studiorum est, the real repetition is not harmed. This is the sum of the claims acquired by the State — these are the large amounts — acquired by the State through the various guarantee schemes. And when the guarantee was cashed, she got a claim on the company. Such a company is, of course, inseparable, in difficulty and before bankruptcy. This is not about any process of ownership restructuring, but about trying to rescue these companies, looking for solutions. Here we must give the government as executive authorities and its authorities the opportunity to find solutions and to save as many jobs as possible. This is not the DUTB that has taken over healthy companies that the banks have taken as a guarantee for these unfortunate debts of financial holding companies – and the biggest among them, I will not mention it, because then the replica will be me. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, I am merely informing the honourable Members and Members that the Group of Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek has sent a new amendment to Article 5. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Secretary of State, Secretary of State! The National Assembly is the supervisory body of the Government. How am I supposed to control the government's work here in the back seat of the National Assembly, number 90, when I don't know what to control? What are these 7 million that we are talking so much about on the Committee on Finance and here today? And when we got the assurance on the Finance Committee that the matter would be explained in a closed session, and then that was not possible. These are elements that do not actually awaken, do not increase trust in the government. I'd like to trust this government as much as possible, but let's agree to play open cards. It seems that others around Parliament and around the government know more than we Members or perhaps more precisely members of the opposition. This debate is not a whim, it is only a result of a study of the report of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has really carefully prepared its opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. And this is our job, the service of this house, the legal and legal service that helps us work to adopt better laws. It is true that many times before this service, until recommendations, we are arrogant to these opinions and wave our hand, ram our heads through the wall, and we have bad legislation. If we took more account of the work of these colleagues and colleagues in the Legislative and Legal Service, our legislation would certainly be better. And what does this report say? That's not what we talked about here today. What does the Legislative and Legal Service say about Article 5 of the Law Amendment or Article 39 of the original law. He's making the next one. Even in the new second paragraph of Article 39, i.e. the original law, or Article 5 of the amendment of the law, it should be specified precisely which provisions of the laws are to be deleted. It can only be concluded that this is an exception to the Public Finance Act regulation governing the sale of financial assets. The question is therefore also raised as to the legal consequences of the provision under which the annual programme for the sale of the country's financial assets for the 2014 and 2015 financial periods does not need to include individual claims of the Republic of Slovenia up to EUR 7 million and the total amount of all claims of each year not to be included in the annual programme for the sale of the country's financial assets must not exceed EUR 70 million. For example, whether or not other provisions relating to the sale of financial assets laid down by the Public Finance Act will be followed. And keep going. The purpose of establishing such a programme, which is to be submitted to the National Assembly for admission, in accordance with Article 80(4) of the Law on Public Finance, in conjunction with the draft budget, is to direct the policy of the sale of financial assets. Therefore, this exception, taking into account the level of claims and the possible exposure of a large number of individual claims up to EUR 7 million, which does not exceed EUR 70 million, to one debtor, should be further clarified or supplemented with exceptional additional criteria. That's the legal and legal service. Therefore, it makes sense and I am convinced that it is on this basis that the SDS colleagues have proposed these amendments to Article 5, the second paragraph, which is of course worth the attention, thorough discussions or answers to all the questions that are being generated here. We, the New Slovenia Group, will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss Article 5? Please sign up. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Colleagues from the opposition have already said most of what was going on about the whole thing. I've run out of time before. I'll be back at the beginning of this matter. Our legal service also says that it is a matter of kicking a matter into this law, which is regulated in other laws, as I mentioned earlier. In short, I'll repeat myself. We have a reference to Parliament in which, I can say, the strongest legal lobby, I will hardly say legal elite; and at the same time, we have some legislation going forward, I cannot say anything but half of it, as our house service warns. This is not to be taken into account. My colleague Horvat said that we have plenty of them as little things, but it would be a time to take them into account, because otherwise we can ask ourselves, who does this and such legislation fit, when we solve a little bit here, we will solve something there – and in the end we will have even more strange legislation if I express myself mildly. If I go back to Article 5. The combined left, like the entire opposition, will support this SDS amendment. I would add that, half a million in Slovenia is a lot of money. I sometimes tell reporters, and they always cut me out, a million is a lot of money when we talk in this byte, specifically in this great hall. After all, 10,000 euros is a lot of money because it's some kind of job of someone who might be unemployed right now. I come from Maribor alone. When I was looking at those discount rates on a portal transferring claims to a bad bank, my first question was who's shaving the fool out of us again. What's the privatisation circle again? We all know what kind of project this is. Most of us know what's behind this 7 million. Most people know that Tina Maze doesn't ski on this company's deals anymore if I can be that direct. And now we're being a little bit of a jerk here. I can't tell you anything else. We are also very disturbed by the United Left that we will now change some legislation on the basis of individual cases. All right, sometimes a case happens, like a prisoner, John Janša, and something has to change. But we will change energy legislation due to lobbying around one and the only particular company. We're not gonna close the session here. We're not gonna know what this is about. I mean, wait, are you making a fool out of most of us in the opposition? Are you making a fool out of people? You know, after all, people aren't as stupid as politicians often think, and Slovenians and Slovenians aren't goldfish and even those who may have some other kind of ethnogenesis. We have some kind of long-term memory. I don't know now, we've all read the rules of procedure, that we've made this up, but I hope that you Members and Members have also read what the tasks of the National Assembly are. I hope that the audience accompanying this will also look at our portal and read it; because we also need to start learning parliamentaryism. I had a conversation with a reporter today. Of course, we are guardians of the public treasury and this is what we are doing today and this vote, when colleague Han says, "Ah, you'd be hit even more if colleague Ksenia voted..." I've got half a minute, and I'm gonna stop here, and the comment doesn't matter, it's not black humor anymore, it's harakiri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. If there is no special need for discussion, then we are going to debate on Article 12, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, two amendments. Anybody want to talk? I'm starting my application. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the introduction of one of the parliamentary groups, specifically by Desus, we have listened to how well and how much effort has been made in this bill, including in order to allow the weaker pensioners an annual allowance. You know, sand in the eyes. You know why? If we had actually made so much effort and we could really believe those words of yours, a respected coalition, then support the amendment, both amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is about two; it is about eliminating the privilege of the former President of the country; we have the President of the country who is privileged, and no one in this country wants to hear or change that. Today, the coalition, you have that opportunity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we also have privileged former Members, and that doesn't bother you. And you know, there's a lot of nice money coming together. You'll find that hard to deny, and it'll be even harder to say that this money is not needed elsewhere. You all know the Constitutional Court's decision, and in fact it would be right that if we are already taking some really stupid and completely untransparent measures to support the one who can actually change the most important. No one in this country can be privileged because of his former role. Not Milan Kučan, not the Remembrance of Hribar, not anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u88	Representative of the Ministry, Mrs. Vraničar, please [[…]] [[background advertising]] A replica? Then I apologize. Please welcome Uroš Prikl. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u90	I'm sorry. You didn't discuss it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u91	Desus was directly invited here, and I think it's correct. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u92	No, no, no, I'm sorry. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u93	With regard to the amendments tabled, I would like to point out that Article 12, which introduces Article 71a of the Act, does not affect the individual rights of members of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, but limits the transfer from the national budget to the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts for these purposes. The extent to which the prize will belong to members depends on the rules of the SAZU and also on other sources of funds to be used for this purpose. Contrary to this existing proposal of Article 12, the two amendments proposed by the SDS Group affect the individual rights of the individuals whom they refer to. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the provision or amendment concerning pensions granted under Article 39 of the Law on Members. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in relation to the decision on the constitutionality of individual provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act, points out that, in such a contraction, we must not refer only to one category or one group of individuals who acquire a certain right, in which case the right to a pension which is not justified in the contributions paid. In its explanatory statement, the Constitutional Court expressly pointed out that the legislator must not interfere solely with the individual category of pensions without a reasoned explanation. I note that, in this case, the proposed amendment is not sufficient for this condition, and I therefore assess that an amendment could be adopted in contravention of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the proposed amendments? No, no, no. Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. With this, I interrupt the 7b item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Employment of Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, dear Members and Members; I apologize. You have before you the amendment to the ZZRZI, namely the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. A key change in the law is to set limits. You all know that in Slovenia we have 141 disabled companies that employ about 6 000 non-disabled people and 6 000 disabled people, i.e. a total of about 12,000 employees, and that, according to the provisions of the law, those disabled companies that employ at least 50% of the disabled have the right to receive the social contributions paid for disabled workers and those who do not. At the annual level, this is about 38 million to 40 million. In this regard, there are also certain questions about the most rational use of these funds. That is why we have decided together in the government to set limits on the level of wages to which non-disabled workers in disabled companies are exempt from social security contributions. This limit is set at three times the minimum wage, which is at the moment, because it will be aligned with the minimum wage growth of EUR 2 000 367. It should be noted that, of course, this does not mean a restriction on the level of wages paid for non-disabled persons in disabled companies; it is only a limit to which the State pays social security contributions for non-disabled persons in disabled companies. Indeed, under the new regime, if confirmed, disabled companies will have to pay the difference between this EUR 2 000 367 and a higher possible sum – the difference in the amount of social contributions. However, the second amendment relates to reporting because disabled companies are required to report on these subsidies they receive in accordance with State aid rules. Individual articles also provide for simplifications in relation to this reporting. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be a work mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Urosh Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In short, I would like to present a report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent, considered the proposal for that law, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government; a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following an urgent procedure, which the College also approved. Representatives of the proposer, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, representatives of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and representative of the Cabinet of the President of the Government participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and also made comments to certain articles. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed measures. Despite the general support expressed for the bill in the debate, the Commission drew attention to some problematic or open points and to the consequences of the proposed solutions. On the basis of the practice of operation of disabled companies, the 2011 measure, which has already strengthened the conditions for obtaining State aid in the form of exemption from the payment of contributions of at least 50% of disabled workers, has taken considerable effort from disabled companies to achieve the new criteria; now their operating conditions are changing again. The Committee also received a proposal to reject the proposal for a law from the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disability Organisations, which was presented by their representatives at the meeting of the Committee. They stress that the measure will affect individual disabled companies differently, especially those who employ a more skilled workforce and use better technology. No amendments were tabled by the motioners within the time limit, but on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, some proposals were proposed for amendments to the Committee, which were adopted by the Committee as its amendments. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the draft law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that they had pointed out in a written opinion some inconsistencies in the draft law, while stressing that the amendments of the Committee had been largely eliminated. In the short discussion, the panellists expressed the view that the proposal for a law should be supported, but that the facilitation of jobs for non-disabled workers working directly with persons with disabilities should be further considered. The representatives of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disabled Organizations objected to the proposal of the law for the reasons already mentioned in their proposal to reject the law. The Committee adopted a proposal for a law including amendments, of course, assuming that the proposed mother is considered in the future and that solutions are adopted that will be in the interest and interest of all concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u99	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished representatives of the Ministry! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act concerns minor changes. The main change concerns the exemption of employers' contributions to disabled workers in disabled companies, which has led to quite a few contradictions among some disabled organisations. Here we would point out that in disabled companies, the salaries of non-disabled workers are usually much higher than those of disabled workers. In Slovenia, 141 disabled companies employ about 6,000 non-disabled workers. Disabled companies with at least half of the disabled and at least a third of the disabled are exempt from social security contributions for non-disabled persons. The bill provides for the highest salary of non-disabled workers, to whom payments of social security contributions continue to be exempt and the border puts on a triple minimum wage of EUR 2 000 367. Therefore, contributions shall only be paid for the difference between the actual salary paid and those three times. It is also important that this proposal simplifies the reporting procedures for the use of State aid, removes administrative obstacles to the way rights are exercised in accordance with which it already operates electronically and employers are accustomed to such a system of business. The draft law also contains a provision which does not allow indirect users of the State budget to apply exemptions for contributions to pensions and disability insurance for disabled workers over the quota. These have had difficulties in using these funds, as prescribed by the European Regulation in order to prohibit double funding. In this way, we believe that the proposal for a law will not affect the employment policy of most of the professional staff to work with persons with disabilities and to carry out development tasks in disabled companies. Therefore, we also believe that there will be no negative effects on the business of disabled companies. We support the draft law in the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u101	Your Honor, Your Honor, Madam Secretary! We have before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced into the legislative procedure following the urgent procedure and from the system of disabled enterprises takes about EUR 3 million; that is, about one tenth of what the whole public sector will contribute to financial consolidation. Initially, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not propose to adapt the existing law by a regulation of the European Commission which redefined the employment quotas of disabled persons by setting the minimum 30 % employment of disabled persons and not 50 % of the employment of disabled persons by the Pahor government in 2011. The new Regulation of the European Union also removes restrictions on the purchase of facilities and equipment for disabled enterprises, which significantly improves the working conditions for the employment of disabled persons. In the SDS Group, it would be expected that the coalition would take EUR 3 million from the disability business system, at least while implementing the provisions of the new Regulation of the European Union, thereby significantly depriving disabled companies and thus contributing to more effective employment of disabled persons. Of course not. Although the coalition by this law lays down a limit for the exemption of payments of contributions only for employees with disabilities in disabled companies, this means a reduction of the resources for the employment of disabled persons themselves. According to the representatives of disabled companies on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, these contributions are accounted for separately and remain intended for the employment of disabled persons. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law containing a solution for the additional burden on disabled companies in financial terms and in terms of added value, since the measure is aimed at those workers in disabled companies who represent added value in terms of employment of highly qualified personnel, from which disabled persons in disabled companies acquire work experience and who create added value for disabled companies. The calculations of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia show that, taking into account all the factors, the state is committed only EUR 27.49 per month to a disabled person, which is significantly insufficient compared with the amounts that the State would give to the jobless persons who are unemployed through social transfers. The proposal for a law on the left-hand side of the policy option has already introduced a second law within four years, which unwarrantedly, without a clear objective and irresponsiblely burdens disabled companies. The bill is not in line with the social partners; the government has no serious intention of finding a common goal with disabled companies; unlike the public sector. Dearly respected, we will certainly not support this proposal of the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye to all of you again! The key content of the amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is the restriction on the exemption of social security contributions for non-disabled workers in disabled enterprises to a minimum wage of three times, which amounts to an exemption of EUR 2 000 367 to a non-disabled employee; and the facilitation of the implementation of the European Commission Regulation relating to State aid, which simplifies the process of reporting on the use of state aid in the field of disability policy through the already existing electronic operating system of the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, at the end of 2013, 140 disabled companies were employed by about 11,000 workers, about half of whom are non-disabled. So there's one non-disabled person working on every disabled person. According to the figures of the disabled companies, the average of all the highest wages paid to disabled persons in 2011 was around EUR 980 gross, and the average of the highest wages of non-disabled persons was around EUR 4 000 70 gross. Let me also mention with this information that disabled companies receive other State aid, for example to cover the costs of adapting spaces to persons with disabilities, to cover the cost of hiring staff for a period spent by staff only to help persons with disabilities, to cover the cost of building premises where disabled persons will be employed, and some such assistance. In the Desus Group, the proposed State measure is understood as acceptable and necessary. It is justified or needed primarily in order to meet the fiscal objectives of the State budget, as it is necessary to save on all segments of national spending. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the law by a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u105	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the new Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The financial picture of Slovenia, which has been giving us for a long time, shows nothing good, requires us to look for reserves that will help stabilise public finances. One such measure is also the restriction on the payment of contributions to disabled persons on a threefold minimum wage. This is therefore a savings of EUR 3 million. Let me take a look at what this is all about. The law provides that disabled companies with at least 50 % of the disabled and those with between 40 and 50 % of the employees of the disabled are exempt from the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, healthcare and health insurance and parental care for all employees, i.e. in addition to disabled persons with disabilities. This measure is without prejudice to the rights and situation of persons with disabilities employed. They are not subject to any change, as disability is still subject to exemption from payment of both employers and employees' contributions. In the process of examining the bill, Members of Parliament also received opposite views on the table, which wanted to convince us that this would have an impact on the deterioration of the situation of persons with disabilities. It is correct that, in order to clarify misleading statements that appear in the public, we should tell ourselves why it is at home. Firstly, the fact is that in most disabled companies, non-disabled people have higher wages than disabled people. Secondly, the employer will pay contributions for non-disabled persons once the law is in force, and that is only for those whose salaries exceed EUR 2 000 367.45 gross. In addition, it should be added that the employer for a non-disabled employee will not pay full contributions, which means that part of the relief, if we can say so, remains for non-disabled workers. The employer will therefore have to pay the employer's contributions as well as the employee for all non-disabled workers whose salaries are higher than the amount already mentioned. If I can sum it up. We are therefore restricting the payment of contributions to all non-disabled persons in disabled companies and will save €3 million in the budget through this measure. We are aware that no measure affecting certain rights is desirable and will not be accompanied by approval; however, this does not mean that it is not necessary. We only hope that all the measures we are now taking will prove justified and that the situation in the country will stabilise and normalise as soon as possible. For this reason, the Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I will say that I do not like the word disabled because it is the word of the 19th century; it bothers me even that it is still written in the Slovenian Constitution. I hope that this will change in due course; but to understand each other, I will, unfortunately, use it this time in the position of the Group of Members. The government proposes to limit the exemption from contributions to non-disabled workers to salaries that are less than three times the average gross wage. This measure is, of course, socially fair at first sight, but if we look at it more closely, any similarity with social justice is random. In fact, the measure is socially unfair and there are no legitimate public financial reasons for it. Forgiveness of the employer's contributions does not benefit employees with high wages, but a disabled company. From the point of view of the disabled company, it is totally irrelevant whose tax is exempt; it is important to reduce the expenditure of these companies, which are difficult to compete with ordinary companies after productivity. State aid makes it possible to employ workers who are not able to obtain employment in conventional companies and are one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. In response to the State Council, the government indicated that disability companies using more demanding technologies would lose around 10% of the current state aid due to the proposed measure. Many disabled companies already operate at the cost of profitability. The Institute of Disabled Enterprises has calculated that disabled companies, without State aid, would be in a high-loss business or would no longer be in business. If the government is disturbed by the salaries of non-disabled workers in a disabled company, then it should propose some measure to compensate for the lost aid. Of course, the government does not propose such a measure. If the government is disturbed that, I quote, "the salaries of non-disabled workers are much higher than the salaries of disabled employees", the end of the quote, then let it set a higher minimum wage for disabled workers. Nor does the government propose to do so, but rather, together with the European Commission and the Economic Chamber, it puts pressure on the reduction of all minimum wages. The measure which harms disabled companies was not proposed by mistake. For the government, the issue of employment of people with disabilities is simply not a priority and is willing to sacrifice it to achieve the Maastricht criteria. A month ago, the majority of the Council adopted a budget rebalancing for this year, in which, for example, defence spending increased by 1.7%, while reducing it on items, on disability support and rehabilitation accounts and equalising opportunities for people with disabilities. Disability companies are an important part of preventing social exclusion. The proportion of disabled workers in disabled companies increased by more than 5 percentage points between 2008 and 2013, making it now nearly 51% of workers in disabled workers. These are companies where the economic function has to be subordinated to the social function and therefore the reduction of aid is unacceptable. The government has consciously decided to save on the weak, instead of managing the public deficit with social justice measures. The budget proposal endorsed by the European Commission is full of counter-social measures. The government is prepared to make the situation of vulnerable groups worse for a few million savings, which are largely overestimated. Can you not see that such measures will not achieve three percent of the deficit. The solution to our public finances is clear and well known by anyone who has gone a little deeper into tax statistics. We have a reserve on income on property tax and capital. Of course, the United Left will not support any measure that would make the situation of already disabled workers worse or make it easier for you to understand — disabled workers. 'Cause I still have a little time to figure out what's going on. We're going to draw seven trucks from Afghanistan, it's going to cost us 350 thousand euros, maintenance of these trucks will cost two, three years of this disability savings. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats are surprised that on the priority list of measures to achieve the fiscal objectives of the budget is a measure that brings about a change or elimination of the exemption from social security contributions, health care, pension insurance for workers with disabilities in disabled companies. Our opinion has been confirmed only by the rejection opinions of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. Both organisations warn the proposers that the proposed measure will affect all disabled companies, despite the fact that the obligation to pay social security contributions to these companies will only be imposed on non-disabled employees. Anyone who has read the company balance sheet at least once understands that. Disability companies are more difficult to maintain competitiveness, but they are mostly, thank God, well-sustained in times of crisis. Since changes in the economic environment are too common, economists also point to the impossible strategic long-term planning for the development of these companies. It is unacceptable that the government is beginning to save on a measure that will affect one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market, namely the disabled. In disabled companies, more than 5,000 disabled people are employed, or about half of all employees in these companies are disabled. More to the point, it is shameful that the government is reducing support for the employment of persons with disabilities just in December, because on 3 December we are celebrating the International Day of Disabled Persons under the motto of Build a Joint Europe without Barriers. And the government is putting up new barriers. In the text of the bill we lack data on the situation in the field of employment of persons with disabilities before and after the adoption of the law in 2004. Only on the basis of these data could the proposed changes be well assessed and decided responsibly to support the novel. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect the government to prepare a timely and substantively coordinated proposal for amendments to the rules contained in the list of measures to meet the fiscal objectives of the state budget for 2015. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that laws are just pouring into Parliament. That list contains an increase in the number of laws that should be adopted this month and therefore it is inappropriate, professionally and politically inappropriate for the Government to first send a law to save less than 1% of the funds needed. The proposed novel will not be supported by the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u111	Your Honor! The current Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities provides that disabled companies are exempt from social security contributions to disabled workers. However, disabled companies with at least 50 % of the disabled and disabled companies with 40-50 % of the disabled are subject to exemption from the payment of contributions to all employees, i.e. to non-disabled persons. In the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we find that after the proposed amendment of the law, disabled people will not be in any worse position. The changes only have consequences for people with disabilities who have a salary of more than EUR 2 000 367 gross. For these, disabled companies will have to pay social security contributions in the amount of EUR 2 000 367 to their actual salary, which means that the proposed amendment covers only directors and the management of those companies whose work is not directly related to working with persons with disabilities and adapting their work obligations to their disability. We support the proposed solution in the Group of Members because we believe that the current regime under which all non-disabled workers are entitled to payment of contributions is inadequate. Nevertheless, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek expects the Government to consider, on the basis of a discussion at the meeting of the parent working body in the future, whether it would not exempt the payment of contributions also for those workers with disabilities who work with persons with disabilities and carry out tasks related to the actual facilitation of work, such as adapting work space, work processes and so on. Otherwise, it is likely that companies will be expected to reduce their number and thus the associated working conditions for disabled persons will deteriorate. However, it is generally worth noting that the proposal will have a major impact on disabled companies which are less labour-intensive in their work processes, or those who create greater added value on an employee, which means that they are more productive and technologically advanced. The country therefore hopes that this will make it easier to bear the loss of EUR 3 million, as far as the estimated financial consequences of the bill are concerned. This law will also prevent a number of abuses and anomalies in the future when companies have set up subsidiaries, through which they have adjusted the balance sheets of parent companies and through which the leaders have accounted for social security contributions that have not been paid by the parent companies to the employees. Notwithstanding the latter, it is worth noting, however, that there are differences between the functioning of disabled companies acting alone and disabled companies where the so-called subsidiaries are involved. As a result of their links with the parent undertaking, they are in a better position than those disabled companies that operate independently on the market and are more exposed to market conditions. It would therefore be considered appropriate to consider the appropriateness of the current concept of State aid. However, in the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments that have been tabled and I will first put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the coalition Members. Anybody want to talk? Representative of the Government, Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. You have two amendments before you, which are based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, in this article, which addresses matters of the content of the law, I will take some time to clarify that it will not remain unanswered. A colleague of the SDS Group's delegation raised the issue of the Block Exemption Regulation, i.e. the European Union rule on why and what the conditions for the use of state aid funds are; and there is talk of 30%. We are not talking about disabled companies, we are talking about any company that can spend money for this and this, precisely defined purposes, because they are rules. We're talking about the distribution of funds, the use of funds. This law, however, refers to the source of state aid — and this is a unique source in Europe — for this state aid constitutes an exemption from social security contributions. Another important thing is when we talk about percentages. The status of a disabled person is defined in our law, so you can have the status of a disabled company if you have 40% of the disabled. In this case, if you have only 40% of the disabled, you are exempt from social security payments only for the disabled. However, if you have at least 50% of the disabled, this exemption applies to all employees of a disabled company. It has also been mentioned that we are seriously interfering with the employment opportunities of people with disabilities, but perhaps one such information is that we have 6,000 disabled people in disabled companies, while we have 30 000 disabled people in Slovenia. So let's set up a little bit of a deal. Perhaps another information was that this law was created without any coordination with the social partners. That's not true. 6. 11. I have accepted representatives of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, and this amount has also been amended on their proposal. First of all, there would be a proposal of 2.5 times the minimum wage, and in talking to them, we've been trying to find a compromise solution, so it's in front of you now. The government has also adopted a proposal to talk about a minimum wage of three times that all payments of social contributions to the gross amount of three times the minimum wage of EUR 2 000 367 are exempt. Prior to this meeting, this proposal was 2.5 times the gross amount of EUR 1000 972. So it is not true that we did not coordinate, we talked, but there was no agreement by representatives of the Union of Disabled Enterprises. Unfortunately, there are quite a few stories with which you and the entire Slovenian public have been informed through the media about abuses in disabled companies. And in this place, I do not want to expose bad practices in disabled companies or in any way black out the reputation of disabled companies. However, this also remains one of these measures when we put a limit on the payment of contributions, and we are not in any way interfering with the level of wages of non-disabled persons in disabled companies, even in some way referring to the problematic practices that have arisen in our space and have been media exposed. By no means did the Ministry or the government want to cut down on the employment opportunities of disabled persons, depriving them of these opportunities or in any way aggravating the situation of disabled persons in disabled companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. I was encouraged to discuss the final answer, explained to the Minister herself. The fact is, the Legal and Legislative Service has said much more about this proposal. You have taken into account one of the technical elements and corrected it, but you have four sides of the shortcomings of this law. Four sides, respectable minister! And that this law still interferes with the work of the disabled, it is also a case that we have received from the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. They say that things are going to change radically, even because we have been successful as a country in terms of hiring people with disabilities. With this proposal, where we have achieved good results within the European Union – good results when it comes to comparing people with persons with disabilities in the labour market, we have been respected at the very top. We were among countries such as Germany, Luxembourg, Austria and Italy. This is also because we have been somehow successful in the legislation of disabled companies and as well as ourselves. Today, by doing this, we are turning this into a marriage. That is how we were warned by the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia. It's true that Minister Six is. 11. met with them; I hope that this was not just one meeting, but no agreement was reached. The fact is also that, in their letter, I think that all other Members and Members have received it, they have made it clear that the claim is that only economic allowances for non-disabled salaries, for fraud are being reduced; as all the contributions in disabled companies are being accounted for as the cost of doing business on the market, etc. So it is not true that you are here with this intervention, which you want to show as just that it is a measure for those non-disabled people who are in business; it is an intervention in the whole system. What you said, Minister, is how positive we have about hiring people with disabilities, you will see that this effect will change. We are reminded of this by many, and I believe that such a 3 million-dollar rush is not justified. Nor is it because at the previous point we have reached a decision on the claims that we will sell for 7 million without anyone knowing what is going on, where they will go, and who will. You know what's the worst thing for me is that I just got a postcard from the Association of Blind and Invisible Slovenia in the post office right now. They want us to have a happy 2015. I can answer them – Good luck to you too! but this coalition takes 3 million euros for the beginning of the year. Let's just think, dear fellows and colleagues, if it's really not possible to find somewhere else. Is it really not possible to cross somewhere else? I believe it, and I'm sure it's possible. That it is possible and that we leave what is well-managed and obviously successful compared to other countries in peace. We prefer to learn from these examples.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. You want another debate? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ivan Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I am a coalition Member, but I will not support this proposal. Why? I come from such a disabled company, I come from one of the larger and more successful disabled companies in Slovenia, and I know how these companies actually work. Look at our case. We started our work with 33 employees. It was precisely on the basis of these decommissioned funds which did not need to be paid that the company was expanding and employed. We got to the top number, 171 at some point. This is for Zasavje, where I come from, a phenomenal number. We've increased the initial state six times. Now there are about 150, slightly over 150 employees, which is, of course, still a great number and employment in view of the swath problem of these job shortages, and I cannot agree that this is a reduction in contributions, which is said to be non-disabled, 100% per triple minimum wage. Now you say this applies only to non-disabled people, not to disabled people. This is not true, of course, because these funds will be taken away from the disabled company and these funds are part of the complete budget or any way that this company operates with. This will certainly have consequences for the further successful work of these disabled companies. See, these funds are of course earmarked, these funds cannot be used for the salaries of non-disabled persons, they can only be employed for the training of these persons with disabilities, they are called additional employment, for the updating and purchase of equipment on which these persons with disabilities, of course, will work, and also for working conditions, are the objects in which these works will be carried out. We have heard that 142 disabled companies are in Slovenia and that about half of them may be less than half of the employees, people with disabilities, and that there will certainly be negative consequences for these companies on this basis. The Minister also mentioned some of the abuses found. Yes, there may have also been abuses in some companies, but in Slovenia, I have already said in the National Assembly that the country is the easiest to say, if there is a finding of abuse, the state does not act in the case of those who are in breach of the law – it is said that sanctions are necessary – and the easiest thing to do is to change legislation and hit everyone, including those who are doing well, successfully. [[…]] I can't agree with this. Thus, I will not absolutely support this amendment of the law for these reasons, as I have stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much, chairman. In view of what my colleague said before me, I almost ran out of words or because my debate will go in exactly the same direction. In fact, I know disabled companies myself, and I cannot agree that we will essentially take out non-disabled people here and we will not harm disabled people. See, even in your debates or your presentation of the opinions of the groups of Members, you have highlighted the fact that they are non-disabled and have high wages. This was so emphasized that in fact it was not heard nor by us listeners and by those who listen on television screens. So you were going to say that someone has high wages and that you're going to take away one part of that salary. No, you're not taking him away. He'll have the salary he has, and you'll take the money from the disabled organizations. As a colleague said, the money that comes from public funds for disabled organisations is dedicated money – it is training, then education, business expansion and so on, and it is not pay or anything else. Stressing high wages, taking away non-disabled people, is misleading the public. Those who know disabled organizations or who have ever hired disabled persons know that this money is dedicated and that it has to be kept in a special account, in a special cost location, to be inspected for inspection and to come and see where you put that money and that you don’t have to just give it away. If you take this money, you essentially take money from a disabled organization, you take money for development, for education of disabled people, for additional employment, for the development of this company. It is also true that there is an irregularity in the disability organisations, and this is being used, and that is probably what we all agree on. We also had a debate on this in the parliamentary group: yes or no. But then why don't we take action where there's an irregularity? No! No! We will now hit nicely precisely on those disability organisations that are successful, successfully benefiting from these public funds that deliberately benefit from public funds. But those who exploit it will continue to exploit it, believe me. Because they're very good at it. In order to save once systematically or by inspection there — but not there! But let us continue to make them rich at the expense of the disabled and take public funds. I certainly am behind this, and that is my explanation for the vote that I will definitely not support this law or amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Another round of applications? Please sign up. Mr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you, Chairman! Today I feel like I'm listening to government representatives here in the National Assembly, feeling like we're witnessing a session that's closed to the public. Otherwise, I cannot imagine the statements made by government representatives when they say that they have agreed with individual stakeholders for a single proposal or amendment. We have had such a case before in each other's law, but now we have the basis for amending the Law on Change and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Each of us has received two letters from two important organisations, where they both refer to the fact that Members should not support these proposed amendments, as these proposed amendments cover their basic activities. On his personal experience, fellow Member Desus presented the issue that we are dealing with today. And earlier than colleague Godec has already pointed out, you have always stressed that this is not a disability, so that people with disabilities will not be harmed, that they have high salaries and at the same time add that some representatives, more visible representatives of disability organisations are in judicial or investigative proceedings. But, look, the same three characteristics are found in Slovenian bankers – they are not disabled, they have high wages and are in individual investigative procedures. Why don't you cut your wages there? We threw 3.6 billion euros into Slovenian banks, we're talking about three million. If you tear down three million dollars, the amount we gave to the banks will come another thousand two hundred such proposals. I call on the government, not to joke on the backs of the most people who fight for everyday survival, and to prepare systemic solutions for those who have, not on the shoulders of those who don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u122	Mag. Ange Logar, thank you very much. So, I guess we've had this discussion. I move on to Article 7 and to the amendment of the coalition parties. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments or amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a law amending the law on intervention measures in the field of the labour market and the ombudsman's protection, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u123	Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal to extend the intervention law adopted last year, I believe that May, and one of the measures applies until the end of this year. This is an important measure that has proved to be so during this period; that we give the opportunity to free the employer who employs a young unemployed person up to 30 years of age if he is registered at the employment institution for at least 3 months and if he employs that young person for an indefinite period of time from paying social contributions for a two-year period. Since last November, when the law came into force with this work, by September there were around 3 000 young people employed under this measure. This measure has been implemented by some 2,000 employers. It is important because of this measure that we promote employment for an indefinite period and reduce the cost of employment and, as I have already said in the student work, in fact now, if we look at the fixed-term employment contract in terms of the cost of the employer for such employment, I think it is about 53 or 54%, while the student work is more burdensome. So, in terms of costs, the employer would have no more reason to serve the student work – in terms of costs, I speak; of course, the flexibility of the student work is significantly different from contracts for indefinite periods, but nevertheless, this is an important incentive for the employment of young people for indefinite periods of time. This also addresses one of the major problems in the Slovenian labour market, where we have a share of jobs for a certain period of time, if we look at how the age distribution is, we find that these jobs are, for a certain period, mainly young job seekers. So we want to encourage not only the employment of young people but also the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. This measure is also part of the Youth Guarantee, a document adopted last year. It may be interesting — I also have some information here about which of these youths were employed under this law. Most of the age structure was between the ages of 25 and 30. Thus, 73% of those employed under this measure are between 25 and 30 years of age and only 27% are between 15 and 24 years of age. Once again, this data shows that in Slovenia the problem of youth unemployment between the ages of 25 and 30 has been the main cause of the Youth Guarantee measure as one of the exceptions within the European Union to young people up to the age of 30, while most of the other European countries also address young people from the age of 15 to 24. I hope that this law will be supported by you by this one-year extension of this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! Allow me to present a brief report to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Intervention Measures in the Field of Labour Market and Parental Protection, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for a review and adoption of the bill following an urgent procedure, which was also endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and announced that it would, in cooperation with the proposer, carry out a minor revision of the editorial character prior to the publication of the draft law in the Official Journal. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, supported by the proposed measures, while expressing the hope that for young people who are or will continue to be employed on its basis, this means a permanent solution, i.e. the maintenance of work for an indefinite period even after the end of the subsidised employment, that is 24 months. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the proposed amendments. In the short debate followed by the bill, the view was expressed that the measures were good and should be supported. While some concerns were mainly about structural unemployment and education policy, some debates could be held in the future. This is not the subject of this regulation. The Ministry of Labour agreed that emphasis should be placed on career orientation, as well as on retraining or retraining. It is also necessary to find ways to reduce the number of unemployed, not just unemployed young people. The Committee voted on the proposed articles of the regulation and also supported the law. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection be adopted as follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u127	The proposal for a law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection is one of the proposals to be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party as it prolongs the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Young people want to take the next step towards socio-economic independence right after school, and they want to work. However, since this step is very difficult for them in modern times, there is a lack of self - control and discouragement among young people. They make family decisions more difficult, and they also find it difficult to regulate living conditions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it seems important for young people to find adequate employment as soon as possible after they have completed their education, so the action ahead of us today must also create special incentives for the economy in order to involve young people in the work process during the course of their schooling. In this regard, we have also proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act to abolish volunteering, as more than 800 young people are still working on such traineeships in the context of employment measures. We also keep in mind the integration of education with the economy and the need to take such measures. Incentives for youth employment will be delivered if the number of jobs in the economy continues to decline. The economy is now engaged in the fight against higher taxes and suffocating bureaucracy. Perhaps that is why such statistics as are submitted by the applicants in the interpretation of the amendment of the law. They wrote that by means of measures of employment of young people up to the age of 30, which has been implemented since 1. 11. 2013 onwards, they aimed to employ 7 000 500 young people for an indefinite period of time. According to the Ministry, only about 2 000 500 young people were employed within nine months. This is a small figure against this figure, which presented the registered number of young unemployed persons in the month of August, which was over 27,000 young people this year. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that the opinion was also expressed by the Council of State. We have a group of young people over 30 who already have families and do not have specific employment measures. So we have some kind of new group that's socially threatened, not one person, but the families of those who are unemployed are also at risk here. It also raises the question of what happens to these young people after two years, when this measure essentially ceases to apply to them; whether they remain employed, whether employers keep these jobs or, in fact, young people remain on the road. We propose an extension of the measure, the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons up to 31. 12. 2015 is just a drop in the sea to help young people in their employment. However, as we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is important for the successful development of society and the State to employ young people and thus all activities that create conditions for youth employment, we will also support the amendment of the Law on Intervention Measures in the field of labour market and parental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor! Allow me this time to present you a position on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Labour Market Interventions and Parental Protection on behalf of the Dessus Group. Since 1 November last year, a measure has been implemented to promote the employment of young unemployed persons under 30 years of age in the framework of the Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection as part of the Youth Guarantee measure. This incentive can be applied by employers who, from 1 November last year to the end of this year, employ an unemployed person who is less than 30 years of age and who is registered in the unemployment register at least 3 months before the date of entry into force of the Regulation. In this case, the employer shall be the employer for the first 24 months, i.e. for 2 years of employment of that person, exempt from payment of the employer's contribution to pension and disability insurance and health insurance, parental protection insurance and unemployment insurance. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as the holder of the measure, has seen the very positive results of this measure and, if memory does not deceive me, there have been more than 2 000 such cases so far when employers have served this measure. Of course, it is expected to be even more inappropriate in the following year. Given that there are still disadvantages to employment in a broader sense, especially for young people, and given the mass interest in this measure, it is proposed to extend the implementation of this measure by one more year both young people and employers. In DeSUS, we assess that this is very reasonable and we will unanimously support the proposal. In the DeSUS Group, although perhaps sometimes someone will say so, of course we are not indifferent to the position of young people. In Desus, we are very concerned about the unpleasant situations that burden young people. As soon as their education is completed, young people cannot go on a separate life course, and instead of creating their own family, they remain dependent on their parents, many times on their parents. Precautious and flexible jobs or forms of work that are mostly available and generally less paid do not provide any or very minimal opportunities for a quality, a person worth living and a decent life. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal to extend the measure, as I have already said, which encourages employers to work regularly for young people. At the same time, we would like this employment not only to be for those two years when it is not necessary to pay contributions, but to actually and in the true sense of the word, this employment will grow into a long-term and indefinite period of time. At the same time, we advocate a serious and complex approach to solving an integrated picture in the field of employment or unemployment in Slovenia not only for groups of young people, this time 30 minus, but also for other categories. As colleagues and colleagues have pointed out, the age group between 30 and 50, 50 plus and everyone else. Of course, all in the desire for intergenerational dialogue in the true sense of the word and to ensure a better, brighter future for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! We have before us the amendment to the Law on Labour Market and Parental Protection Intervention Measures, which will extend the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of young unemployed persons for one year. This is an exemption measure for the employer’s contribution for a period of twenty-four months in the event of the employment of an unemployed young person for an indefinite period of time, and no additional resources will be required to implement it. By extending this measure, we want to contribute to achieving the fastest and stable employment for young people, to encourage employers to work indefinitely and to reduce the imbalances between supply and demand in the labour market. The problem of unemployed young people is large, the anomalies in the labour market cause an increase in precarious forms of work and the unenviable situation of young people in the labour market, which has worsened the most during the crisis. Young people are more likely to work in demanding or flexible jobs than other age groups, so they are usually the first to lose their jobs at the time of the crisis. In September 2014, 23.7% of all registered unemployed persons were young between the 15th and the 19th years. There are more than half of job seekers among young unemployed people, indicating still limited employment opportunities for young people. It is also worrying that 33.3% of unemployed young people are long-term unemployed. The measure has only been implemented for ten months and therefore there are no long-term effects, but the first indications are that the measure serves its purpose and promotes the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. Available data show that during this period, 2 000 438 unemployed persons, 27% between the 15th and 24th years of age and 73% from the 25th to the 30th years of age, were employed on the basis of unemployment relief for an indefinite period of time. Data are certainly encouraging and encouraging optimism to move to the best for young people when implementing the right measures. Young people are the generation that loses the most. Instead of releasing their potentials, knowledge and youthful fervor, creativity in the workplace with the common goal of improving the economic picture of our country, they are too often suppressed on the social edge of society, dependent on the assistance of parents, robbed of the future and hopes. Any measure that provides jobs for young people, and thus the possibility of their self-reliance and family creation, must receive broad support. We hope that the implementation of the measure will also be successful in the coming period and that the age structure of employment will be even more shift towards young people in the coming year. The Social Democrats will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Group Joint Left, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you again for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The bill comes at a time when the Ministry announced a drastic reduction in resources for active employment policy measures. This year there was a poor 105 million and only €47 million will be available next year. The number of persons involved in these programmes will decrease from 35 to 15 thousand 400. In the light of the Economic and Social Council's agreements, it is concluded that there will be no money to subsidise the employment of vulnerable groups and that the number of people employed through public works will be halved. Last year there were 9,000 or this year, in 2015 there were only 4,000 more. Given that cuts will be so radical, we need to ask ourselves whether it is justified to support this particular measure. As you have already said, it is an exemption to pay the employer's contributions if an undertaking employs an unemployed person under 30 years of age who has been registered as a job seeker for at least three months. The measure takes place for ten months and the Ministry of Labour has unfortunately not yet analysed the effects of this measure. Such measures are never uniform; the first question is whether the target group is adequately defined. What follows: Is it really reasonable to subsidize the employment of very young people who have just graduated from high school, or is it not more appropriate for them to take any other measure in the Youth Guarantee Scheme, such as traineeships or education? On the other hand, the State Council has already pointed out the fact that the ceiling of 30 years has been set in a purely formal manner, that they need encouragement from a slightly older unemployed person, often in the case of young families. The condition that the beneficiary must be registered at the office of work for at least three months shall also be established arbitrarily. Would it not make sense to encourage the employment of long - term unemployed young people? Proposers will probably say that the purpose of this law was to reduce the trend of youth unemployment for a certain period of time. This leads us to a general serious question of how we could have fallen so low that something must be encouraged because the law is the norm. Under the Labour Relations Act, employment for a certain period of time is allowed only exceptionally. I will repeat once again: only exceptionally is allowed under the Employment Relations Act. The proportion of fixed-term employment in Slovenia is extremely high in youth at all, which is a clear sign that there are massive violations of legislation and that systematic action is needed. Given that there are no other measures at the moment and that it is likely that the European funds will be drawn up depends on this, we will support the law. However, we expect the government to take unemployment seriously. In short, our support is conditional, for we will not come anywhere in the medium term with these proviso solutions. Now that I've listened, we'll all support this bill, we're going to extend a little bit, we're going to extend for another year, you've all been doing well here for young people, I'd expect from the coalition side some amendments that would somehow cut into this huge discrepancies of reducing funds for active employment policy measures, and I think it would be time, unfortunately there's no young colleagues from SDS here, but also our young colleague, not that we're starting to think a little bit about this issue and introduce some new solutions, and at the same time we don't forget – Desus here has not pointed out – that the problem is also the unemployed older: 55 and plus. How are we going to solve this problem? As I have already said, the United Left will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on intervention measures in the labour market and parental protection conditionally, but we expect the Government to take these matters systematically as soon as possible and to start looking for some long-term solutions, as you know, this extension, which we will be going through next year at the same time when the sausage is cut, will lead to a shortage of bread, let alone sausages.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u135	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Young people are the most vulnerable group in the labour market. The level of youth employment in Slovenia has been declining for the fifth year in a row and is due to the increased prevalence of temporary and less secure jobs. The share of temporary employment among young people is the largest in the European Union. The proposed amendment prolongs the possibility of encouraging employers for a one-year period. One reason for the extension, according to the applicant, is that the target group of young people involved in education ran out of student status as of 1 September 2014 or student status as of 1 October 2014, which means that employers for the employment of young people who have applied to the unemployment register after the expiry of their status this year will not be entitled to that incentive. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that a similar situation will arise at the end of 2015. We ask Christian Democrats how the ministry will ensure that young people who will enter the unemployment and three-month registration conditions in this register on or after 31 December 2015 can benefit from this measure. Many of us are reminded that when designing labour market measures and other policies, the vulnerable group of young people between 30 and 35 or older, who are no longer part of the statistical category of young people, but also face the same problems as young people by the age of 30. These remain in the search for solutions, as they are no longer eligible for measures to raise youth employment. Self-employment exits, often offered as a solution, often end up with severe financial problems and a lack of social security. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Government does not take action on the right side. There are too many subsidy programmes that are expensive and have short-term effects, while exerting great pressure on the state budget and on the sustainability of public finances. This is the most felt condition for young people, since the most taxed is what is created and spent on the opposite side; the young have no other choice. Given that the exemption from employers' contributions, at least according to the applicant's data, gives good results, Christian Democrats are proposed to pay systematically and to take a systematic, comprehensive approach to burdening labour costs. In addition, we propose that the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia be reorganised and transformed in a way that will be more focused on the intervention of work with less red tape and more direct activities with clients with a view to achieving the highest level of effective service for the unemployed and employers. At the expense of the reorganization of the institution, the Labour Inspectorate can be strengthened, which will also check the implementation of an active employment policy at the office and at the agencies. Colleagues and colleagues, young people, economists, the whole public is telling us about the need to change approaches. We attach Christian Democrats to them. We will support the proposed novel because at least it partially solves this difficult problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats – Sorry, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Facilitating employers for young people up to the age of 30 was part of last summer's Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection. The former government wanted to achieve an increase in the proportion of young people employed, while also increasing the proportion of jobs for an indefinite period of time. Young people needed to be given an opportunity, especially because in the years of the crisis Slovenia recorded one of the higher unemployment rates among young people throughout the European Union. It is worth noting that this measure has been relatively successful, as more than 2 000 employers have so far been encouraged and around 2 000 500 unemployed young people have been employed indefinitely. Employers have put in place around €2.25 million incentives in the form of exemption from payment of employers' contributions. On the other hand, income withdrawals on the basis of salaries paid to employees amounted to more than EUR 1 million and EUR 3 million of contributions were paid for social insurance, which means that the net earnings of the country or all of the cash million were EUR 750 000. As early as November 2013, it was said that the State would extend the measure if it proved that the measure would have an impact on the employment of young people. This year, the former government adopted the Youth Guarantee, the Implementing Plan 2014-2015 and the intervention measure provided for in that Act is key in the plan. These guarantees for young people are intended to prevent young people from being left at the edge and longer inactive. In times of crisis, young people, when job opportunities are declining and the demand for employers is declining, want to ensure that they are at least able to enter the labour market first or that they are at least active. Therefore, the guarantees oblige countries to ensure that the young person is included in one of the measures, such as traineeships, job offers, training and others. The problem is that tackling youth unemployment is also one of the objectives of the operational programme from 2014 to 2020. The new government has adopted and forwarded the operational programme to the European Commission in November, which means that until the programme is confirmed, followed by the establishment of measures and calls for them, the European Social Fund will not be able to benefit. Since the State budget is already running out of resources for active employment policy measures, it appears that the extension of this intervention measure will be the only measure in the middle of 2015 to promote the employment of young people and that is why we will support the amendment of the law in the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u139	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parenting for one year prolongs the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time for faster and more stable employment. The draft intervention law was also drafted in 2013 due to a marked segmentation in the labour market. 66% of young people worked on the basis of a fixed-term contract, while among older people, for example, over 55 years of age, this percentage was significantly lower, about 4%. For young people in the labour market, their wages are lower, their jobs are more unstable, and young people today are achieving autonomy to move away from their parents later on and create a family more than the previous generations. This is also linked to the prekerisation of the labour market in which young people play a major role. In order to create a safer environment for young people, the proposal for a law is also extremely important in this respect. In addition to eliminating segmentation in the labour market, the measure maintained by this law is also important in order to encourage faster transition of young people to work, especially for job seekers, who are on average waiting for their first job from 8 to 10 months. So far, the positive effects of the current law have been shown. Between November 2013 and July 2014, 2 000 438 unemployed young people were employed for an indefinite period under the current intervention law and 2 000 17 employers benefited. However, the proposed novelty would allow up to 5,000 new jobs for an indefinite period of time to be realized in the coming year, on the basis of the extension of this incentive. The bill will also contribute to a greater inflow of funds into both social registers. For 2014, the inflow of additional funds to the budget and to the social treasury amounting to €3.1 million is estimated and €3.9 million is estimated in 2015. At the same time, this saves money for unemployment and cash social assistance. As the most important effect of the bill's proposal, however, we stress that the proposed incentive will also make an important contribution to reducing unemployment among young job seekers, which is one of the country's priorities in the labour market, and we will, of course, support this proposal in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, the decision on the bill will be made in about 45 minutes in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. I also adjourn the third session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 3:45 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u141	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 7th A item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015 following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendments and amendments to the assembly could be tabled to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 Members and Members voted against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading of the bill, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u142	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not support or oppose the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. We believe or all know that the novel ZUJF has only one purpose, that is to reform the student work or, as it were, to strike at those we like to hit most; young people, that is, students and students. It seems irresponsible and irresponsible to us that we should have a reform of student work in the ZUJF. If we wanted to make serious changes to student work, we'd be regulating this in the law on the occasional work of students. We believe that this is a new tax that will be paid exclusively by young people, i.e. students and students who work through a student's guide. If student work is a social adjustment that enables students and students to live or study, I would like to say that the average monthly earnings of a student or student is around €225, and if we know that a student or student will now have to pay EUR 15 per 100 per student for contributions himself, we can calculate that it will be a significant part of the funding. We would also like to say that there is little dissatisfaction among young people as they will pay for the social rights and contributions that 90% of young people today think they will never enjoy or benefit from in life. Many believe or speak in the National Assembly that politics in Slovenia is intergenerationally coordinated, that they are intergenerationally solidarity, but those who are such opinions should be asked after health. It's sad that we're going to hit students and students, and we can't agree with that at all. The possibility of saving would also be through the reform of student work in order to issue the fees to the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia and then the country, we could say, would have profit. Maybe a lot of you don't know, a student's job can already be provided by an employment agency. As we estimate that this law will greatly exacerbate the social situation of the schooling youth, somehow we will not support it. But I would like to end by saying, because we are in pre-godly times, and since many Members and Members of the Coalition were not even here before, let me conclude with the thought: Santa is the only red gentleman who brings anything, everyone else is taking it as well as this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u143	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I have to come to this place and explain my voice and also the position of the Mir Cerar Party. In fact, we want to say that by means of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act, we really want to eliminate the anomalies in the labour market; we also want to comply with the warnings of the European Union in our commitment to the National Reform Programme. What is most important to us is that we want to put students and students in an equal position and give them social security and economic security. See, as I have already said in the debate, that we are actually an ageing population, that we have problems around our pension allowance and that the problem is how we will wait for age and how the younger generations will be provided, so I take the view that we want to help students, students; far away that we do not care about them. I would also like to point out that in November the Government signed an agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia and therefore we are really working towards eliminating and preventing existing anomalies and helping students and students to become equal in their work, to be counted within their working age and to make their work experience important. That's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u145	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors — Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We will also support this law in our parliamentary group. Once again, I would like to say that this is far from a systemic solution, that the Minister will probably remember how many words we had against laws, such as the Public Finance Balance Act. We support the solution because it is harmonised, but I think that young people, because in some way we are solving the problems of young people, would deserve to be resolved by the system law and not by the Public Finance Balance Act. Since, to be perfectly honest, this law, by balancing public finances, has little in common, it is not a measure to balance public finances. So you can really try to draw up laws that will have permanent value, if I may say so, and they will not be temporary in nature. However, we will support a solution that is consistent with young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u147	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you for your words, President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! In our position, Christian Democrats have already pointed out the irregularities or problematic solutions brought by the novel, namely to drastically reduce the percentage of concession fees intended for scholarships after 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I know that many of you here have not been present at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, but I am not bragging about my long-standing stock or anything, but I am reminding them of the problem when the Youth Scholarship was accepted in 2011 and was subsequently granted. Thus, this new amendment will now take away additional funding for these scholarships. On the other hand, unfortunately, dear Minister, I do not know what resources will be available for the 2015/2016 scholarship? What will be the criteria for obtaining scholarships? This will not be the support of the MP group of this novel ZUJF. And once again: think about how concession fees from the student work will be divided so that there will not be very little left for those who actually use it in some way. But we know that student work has been a problem for four and a half years in this country, that it can't be arranged systematically, and I think we should look first at why people work, why students work. Probably not because they're bored, but because it's a social adjustment not only for him, but in large cases for the whole family. As I say again, Nova Slovenija will not support this novel ZUJF.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u149	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u150	Yes, thank you for your word. Your Honor! I must say that this issue is not settled on a systemic level, but still, it is being addressed. We often tend to avoid moving anything around our country, but we find that this is not the right way. Sometimes it's better not to do anything, but at least we don't get the critic. But let me just say that this area includes solving the pension issue, the disability issue, the health issue, it is said, a whole range of issues of youth issues or student issues. We're talking about having an item that's kind of limited to 4.5 euros gross. We are talking about certain things moving, as far as critics are concerned about some systemic resolution of a particular issue, being in place, but there is nothing lost. The fact is that certain issues are quickly resolved and are intended to do so. It's better than nothing. Thank you very much. And we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u151	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal of this law is, of course, positive, so we will support it. We are aware that student work has a positive social dimension for both students and students. But we can't get past this, unfortunately just the truth that it's a social correction. Of course, we are aware that in Desus we are still aware that this is not a systemic solution, but it is a solution. However, it helps to ensure that student work is no longer problematic from the field or from the point of, if you want, unfair competition, as well as abuse of student work. In view of the fact that each work counts, we also believe that the separation of contributions to the social cash register and pension register in some way offers and allows students here to take a step further in their work. Of course, everyone would like to, everyone would like to have a lot more time to study and only to study, so that the scholarships are at the highest possible level, so that virtually everyone is entitled to them and so on and so on. Because, of course, this is not possible, sometimes a less bad solution or a better solution must be chosen. That's no doubt it is. At the same time, in the DeSUS Group, we also respond positively to the proposal for a minimum hourly item, because we know that such items, such as now and only left to the market, move in disproportionate ranges, from poor 2 euros, to no one. Of course, it is particularly problematic that in individual regions for practical identical work, students receive a few hundred percent less paid, for example in Maribor, as opposed to Ljubljana. In short, I summarize it all together: no matter what it says, it is not a systemic solution, but we consider it a positive solution to regulating the segment of the student work and we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u153	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then there are individual explanations for the voice, so please apply. Before individual explanations of vote, I would like to read once again, just in case, what is this: "Explanation of the voice is not a controversy, a title, a persuasion, an appeal, and a question which is for the purpose of discussion, but a presentation of the substantive reasons why the Group, in this case, will vote in favour or against the proposed solution." Just in case we all know what it is. Now he has the floor to explain the individual voice of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. High Council! I would like to say that I will vote in favour of this law, including because I expect the level of funding for scholarships to increase, only the resources will be different from they were before the second year. This was not the natural source of scholarships — these concessions — for some work that was extremely low-taxed in this way prevented and competed with traineeships; even more, I expect that funding will increase also for the financing of traineeships and that the problem of volunteer traineeships will be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u155	Explanation of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u156	Your Honor! There is nothing I can do to support the amendment of this law. Finally, the Legal and Legal Service warned of the problem of intervention in the ZUJF, a constant intervention in the ZUJF. This, of course, adds fire to the impreciseness of the law and makes it more difficult to implement. I'm sorry that this time you're interfering with the young generation, and at the burden of the debt it's already carrying, you're introducing new measures to empty your student pockets. Today, Slovenia’s newborn baby is born with as many as 14,000 euros of debt that they did not make themselves, made by those governments that made bad decisions. And it's not right that you're putting a new backpack on your students today. This is bad, and these are not solutions that will bring positive effects in the long term, but negative ones. Already today, young people are leaving Slovenia, and there will be more. Please consider this and step away from such solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u157	Explanation of the vote Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and fellow Members! I will vote against it myself; I will vote against it because I believe that this law is directed against students, against students, and not for their benefit. We just need to know that most of the students who work through student work not to go partying at night to afford no travel, I don't know what luxury trips, but they work to pay rent for housing, rent for student homes, so they can pay food and not least to study at all. You said the matter was consistent with the students, it was consistent with the student organisation, which is not taking anything, so – logically – the matter is coordinated. But we can ask students what they think about the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and we will get very interesting and predictable answers. I will vote against it because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have also given our amendment, which would halve the concession fee for student services that serve well at the expense of student work, and the student organisation, and then we would devote this money to paid traineeships, because we know that we have also introduced a law on students because we do not have just one dead letter on paper, but we follow that. In short, because I said that I would defend young people's views in Parliament, that I would work for the benefit of young people, I would vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u159	Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. I'm going to start in person; I was a student in 1994 and I had a clock set of a thousand hundred, a thousand two hundred. How much is that now? Five euros. This is still a good watch item today – here's Logar laughing, but I've been working [[…]] Why is that? Someone's messed up crazy over the last 20 years – I've been guilty of this for the last five months. Colleagues in the coalition say that this is not a systemic solution, but good; come on, better sparrow than turkey. But after all, we have here a minister who is already a third term in a field; an area that has recently been feudalized by a party in this decade, if I may say so. And if there was a systemic shift, I'd expect it here. Come on, I can buy half a year to get the coalition together. When we take power, we'll be in three months, I promise. And because that is the case, on the other hand, I am talking to my students who say that they will not wait for the pension anyway – it is not even as dense as it seems to be – and I am really in a crazy crossroads. Comrade Chairman, there's also a chance you can press the quorum; I'll think about it and probably press the quorum. But I don't know, as an atheist, I'm going to start praying: let some of the system laws begin to be created, if not, and we're going to go to the elections, and we're going to make some big coalition, and we're going to start doing some system laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u161	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you, President. The December session is obviously a festival of non-systemic solutions of the government of Mir Cerar. This is already, I don't know, the fifth, the sixth law that we're going to confirm today, which is non-systemic; even more. The Coalition is pleased to write in this proposal that it is a temporary and occasional one that does not regulate the matter in a comprehensive and systematic manner. We have always advocated systemic solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have always taken such a stand, and that is why I cannot support this law or novel. The second reason is in a way or a view that I cannot agree with. The left ruling coalition always sees the charging of the state treasury only as raising taxes. If you look at it, in this proposal, at the expense of students, the state raises the tax by 100%. Instead of collecting 60 million, it will raise 120 million euros. They say a non-systemic solution – yet it is a solution! Finally, the argument that the proposal was in line with the student organisation – of course, to the student organisation, you take nothing from its officials! Leave them the $9 million that is, among other things, a quadruple of what the National Assembly spends a year. That is why I believe that a student official agrees with this decision. The question is whether the student who works agrees with the solution that he will receive only €85 from today or from the publication of the Official Journal instead of €100 at the expense of his work. Dear country of Mir Cerar! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u163	Explanation of the vote, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! A key problem with the proposed amendment is disproportionateity. Thus, when the predecessors have already said, they are not students, not young ones who will solve this crisis; but you think the opposite! To fill the budget at the expense of the student work, which has become a social adjustment due to the hardship of the people. This is why we are talking in Novi Slovenija about the systematic regulation of the entire education reform and in such a way that the student would not be forced to work so that he could study. But more. You dared to go in the direction of strengthening the monopoly of student organisations by taking less money for student organisations for 2016 compared to scholarships. You are strengthening the monopoly of student organisations, which is why they have also gladly signed this document, this agreement with the government and are not here today before parliament with the dice in hand. I would like to stress this, that in such a way that we will not accept systemic solutions – even as far as the field of student work is concerned, I have done a lot in the past – we will not come very far. Easy; that is, if you put a scholarship policy on your right hand and on your left hand student organisations and agencies that provide student work, you have taken more money for scholarships. Instead of saying: we take away student organisations that don't need this money because they're getting rich, and instead of agencies that are transferring student work, I would forward the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Would that be so hard? This rest of the money could be spent on scholarships. Unfortunately, you've decided to make peace, and you've left these financial resources to the student organisations. I will not support this law for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u165	It's obviously still an interest in explanation of vote, so I'm asking you to apply. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thanks again for saying that. Now it didn't matter whether he was a member of the coalition or a member of the opposition, we all somehow realized that it was a non-systemic solution and that we should do things in a different way. It saddens me that this is the practice of Mira Cerar as a matter of fact since he became Prime Minister of the Government. In my previous explanation, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have forgotten to say or I have run out of time to point out the important aspect of the reduction in concessions allocated to scholarships. Slovenian scholarship policy, I must say, has enormous potential, especially because it is weak and should be improved. However, I would like to say that we did not agree with this law, we were proactive, we introduced a new Law on Working Relations into the National Assembly and, of course, in the context of the adoption of the novel ZUJF, we proposed that funds for the Student Organisation of Slovenia as well as funds for student workers, namely student services, be halved, thereby providing a permanent and systemic framework of solutions for paid volunteer traineeships, or that volunteer traineeships should be abolished. Unfortunately, the government of Mir Cerar or the ruling coalition has not listened and we will still face the problem of volunteer trainees. It's something to say, but to do something else. But when it comes to talking, you're very good, but when there's something to be done, unfortunately he's very limping. By acknowledging that the measure is not systematic, you also acknowledge that the only purpose of the novel ZUJF or student reform is to fill an empty budget. All because of keeping the peace, some support. Look at how many unjustifiable privileges we should pursue — nothing!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u167	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this bill or vote against it in particular because it is not here that the situation of students will improve in any way in our society, in our country, in order to actually give students some hope to give them hope for better employment, for better status, so that they can actually create in this country. This is actually about, if you want, as they say, a partial budgeting measure. However, nothing will be done on scholarship policy and nothing will be done to ensure that students get to their first job faster. Probably through paid internships, which could be one of the forms. But the government of Mira Cerar is not going this way. It is only to provide 58 million more in 2015 and some 42 million in 2016, which means that the government is already planning to drop this work in order to reduce its work. Since it is easy for students with such solutions that the government of Mir Cerar does not give perspective, I will vote against this law. But the perspective for young people is crucial for this country to develop and, in the long run, for it to actually remain, but not for young people, because they do not have a perspective, to go abroad. Even when we are actually taxing, and we are not looking for any other measures in the field of scholarship and in the field of job security, permanent work, the work that provides a basis for further action, such a law is not actually to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u169	Explanation of the vote, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you, President. At least five reasons why I can't support this marriage. Firstly, it is a non-systemic solution, and the non-systemic solution of the Government, which thus refers to the rule of law, cannot exactly write or file any legal law. Another time. I find it extremely unfair that the student organization has betrayed its members and students. Third time. I do not agree with the fact that grants for scholarships are being reduced, but nothing is being taken from student organisations. Fourth time. I've been in the National Assembly for ten years and we've been hearing about intergenerational solidarity all the time, but this intergenerational solidarity is always paid by younger people, and they're getting older ones in particular. In short, I feel that the privileges of certain groups are increasingly hanging on the shoulders of younger people, especially students. Fifth. We have given an amendment where we wanted to make more money out of this mass for paid traineeships, and less money can be given to the student services that are the designated rakrana of this unregulated system, and that is to say less to the student organisations, but you have rejected this amendment. In short, the reasons why young people are moving out and especially the elderly in this country are becoming more and more. I do not share or agree with such a policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u171	Explanation of the vote, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. Once we get evidence that we don't pass system laws, then we get evidence that we're putting out fires, etc. If we look at this marriage, I'll say one thing. Students who work for my notions of unfair work get a lot with this law. They receive a minimum hourly rate — they often do not get 3.8 euros, as stated in this law. Then they'll get social security contributions, health insurance, and they'll count every student's job, every hour of retirement. If that's not enough for students, then I don't know what's enough. I respect your arguments, but I do not respect the arguments of individuals, especially from the United Left, who believe that they may not have read the law, nor have they read it, and because of their politics they are attacking the Minister from day to day, the only minister who knows what it is about in this country at all. I must say that I am extremely disappointed, Mr. Trček, over your attitude towards the distinguished Minister. I will absolutely support this law; I absolutely support and I believe that this will protect, in particular, students and young people who work to study, but will work at least with dignity and will also have paid contributions and will be able to go to a social cash register, to a pension register, and this is a bigger reason for my understanding than all other political words in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u173	Before we proceed, before I give a procedural but no replica, I would not like to remind my colleague Han, but, above all, point out the meaning of the explanation of vote. Certainly not the controversy or the addressing of another Member. The appointment of another Member is not even justified in this context. Procedurally had Mr. Trcek first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u174	Comrade Runk would be more beautiful. This time I'm not gonna ask you to kick my buddy Han's ass. I love him so much. Look, it's very simple. A colleague is a top expert in Slovenia for this and I expect more from her. A lot more! Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u175	However, this was an abuse of procedure, so that in essence the misuse of explanations of voice and abuse of procedure would be eliminated. Okay. Apparently, we still have an explanation for the voice or the Procedural. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u176	I respect your admonition, I take it, I'll say it to my soul, but you know, in this national assembly sometimes you can't listen to everything, hear everything, so I did a little bumping of Mr. Duck. Unlike him, I respect him, but I don't like him that much, so thank you very much. [[…]] [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u177	Good. What makes us laugh is sorry. I guess we still have some explanation for the vote, so I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of Mr. Jože Tanko's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against the law. I will vote against the law because I already have a few kilometers. The current Minister was the Secretary of State at the time of Pahor's Government, and similar projects were then sold to us under an even distribution of burdens. She is also a minister in this mandate, she comes with a new law, and here you are selling us a project under the abolition of anomalies in the labour market. Nice slogans that have no basis for reality. If this law takes 15% of every hour to the student, then it is not about eliminating any anomaly, but it is about putting extra burden on the dirty work. On the other hand, there are a whole bunch of privileged groups – you will also have the opportunity to vote on some in the next law – who receive from the pension fund from the budget any way they do not deserve. And we'll see how the vote goes. In short, I cannot agree with the fact that further taxation of larceny works, student work belongs to this category, improve the situation in the labour market or improve the social situation of anything else. He's making them worse! And: no group, no group belonging to the department of the Ministry of Labour and Family, was burdened with an additional 15% loss of income. No groups but at least privileged. That's why I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u179	We have thus concluded our explanations of vote and can vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance in accordance with the urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 56 for the vote and 21. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th B item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 16. 12. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u180	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment. We estimate that by reducing individual claims to half a million euros and, in total, to EUR 5 million, we will also give some room for manoeuvre to the Government in order to enable effective and quality restructuring of Slovenian companies – in particular the claims arising from the guarantee made by the Government or the Republic of Slovenia. However, we absolutely cannot agree that the individual claim amounts to EUR 7 million. Seven million euros is, say, a significantly higher amount than the sugar tax proposal or the initial proposal, which was 70 million for the annual quota. Only when we sold 50% of the airport's share, we got about 118 million euros. At the same time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned about what the government of Mir Cerar hides, what the coalition hides, that the second time at the meeting of the National Assembly was voted to close the meeting to the public today. The same happened on the Committee on Finance, despite the fact that the Secretary of State made it clear that he would disclose the claim, the name of the company and what was going on in case the meeting was closed. However, this coalition does not want the opposition here to receive information about the claim. I think the masks of this coalition, the SMC's masks, have fallen over hundreds of days; on the one hand, you're advocating transparency, you're calling the opposition to cooperate, and now on, I'd say, a project way of concealing information in important matters. The claims are property of the State and in some ways, by reselling the claims the buyer can obtain a significant ownership of the company or control the company. You had two opportunities, two opportunities did not take advantage, you have another opportunity: to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think the amount of an individual claim of half a million euros is high enough. In any case, in recent months, you have filed all the laws by emergency procedure. If such an urgent matter is so urgent, you can invest, I would say, as well as a claim worth more than half a million euros and we will gladly confirm it. We are not opposed to the procedure, but we are opposed to the amounts and hiding places that are ruled by Mira Cerar or by this coalition. If we were to convince us why this claim is, why it is so important quickly, we might even support it. But at the moment, in the event that our amendment is not supported, we will also not support the amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u181	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then we can move on to the amendment decision [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] In your own name? In this case, I'm asking you to apply. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reduces the sale of claims or the amount of individual claims that the Government can make on its own. This does not, of course, mean that the Government cannot even propose selling a larger claim, a higher claim. Then he must come to the National Assembly and then the National Assembly must also vote. However, I am in fact very negatively surprised or aware of the fact that, given that part of privatisation can be carried out through such transactions, the government of Mir Cerar or this coalition does not wish to do so transparently. On the one hand, a privatisation strategy is being prepared, on the other hand, a new law or legislation is being drafted in this area, and on the other hand, everything is actually already going on. It is known that the purchase of the claim can also become the owner of the company's work or of the whole company, and I think that this should be done in a transparent way in the National Assembly. Of course, I support this amendment, which reduces the value of this option, this claim. This is 500 000, and I think that's enough, and on the other hand, I actually suggest you support this amendment, because after all, the transaction behind your amendment or this proposal will probably come out to the public sooner or later, if it's not already in the public eye. However, I think it is a guess about different companies, which only harms not only you, but also the Slovenian economy. That is why I propose that you do this in a transparent way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u183	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. The provision in Article 5 on which the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing its amendment raised the eyebrows of many people in the National Assembly – for example, for the first time, I have heard that the United Left will support some amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party – which testifies to the great dilemma ahead of Members at the beginning of this mandate. In fact, if the Members do not confirm the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, they themselves report black and white to the public that they do not want to be informed about what is going on with state property, that they do not want to see the government under their fingertips. For example, in the Mir Cerar Party or not in the party anymore, but in the parliamentary group there is a Member who strongly advocates that the government and the National Assembly are not the same entity, but that the National Assembly must look at the government at all times and must carry out its function. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party makes this possible. That is why I will support this amendment, and therefore I expect all those who care about the taxpayer's money and all Members who believe that it is the task of the government's national assembly to look under the fingertips to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u185	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. I would like to report that the Government, as a proponent of the law in the explanation of the article, has stated, inter alia, that, due to the increasing demands of companies after the conversion of claims in the Republic of Slovenia, it makes sense for the capital of these companies to sell certain claims in our country. These are the sales procedures of the country, which includes these claims and are linked to the annual sales programme. The consent of the National Assembly is needed, and this procedure is therefore too long for companies in need of immediate action. I think that this is why meaningful action and simply no other procedures can be carried out in the current situation. This is why the Government has also made such a proposal, which we support, and I will not support the amendment of the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u187	Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. My colleague Logar's words are surprising, but of course I will support this amendment. I would also support him if he was proposed by a colleague who loves me asymmetrically. Somehow you've written in a coalition agreement to advocate prudent privatisation. I mean, if this kind of hiding is a prudent privatisation, if privatisation is what a colleague of Klaudius had to read – it's some sale from a pious sale that you go to in a coalition, and we, the people, are not goldfish. I read the interview – I regularly read the Reporter and I also buy it, I contribute to the gross social product – an interview with my colleague Bojan and I took it seriously. I'll also go see how he'll vote if I take seriously what my colleague Bojan said there. And if you read the 82nd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, at least the first indent, even if you have not read the Reporter, you will be as supportive as I am of the SDS party amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u189	I guess there'll be some more explanation for the vote, so I'm asking you again. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment by ourselves and my fellow Members in the Group. That we are doing the right thing when we break this down, but in fact, I was proved by a colleague who read in the law the explanation written by the Government. And, fellow Member, with the support of this amendment, you will give the National Assembly a measure of validity and procedures will be exactly as they were written in the law to manage state property. That's how you do it if you want to. Everything can be done if it's not just our words, it's our actions. And in the management of state property, in the three months since you've been running the government, you've really proved that you're just words and words. Do not allow the National Assembly to learn about what the Government is doing with our financial assets; but this is not only yours, it is our common property and read as an argument of the Government's argument that it is not otherwise possible, but – I mean, if I say funny, it is a very kind word. With this amendment, you will ensure that there is another way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u191	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u192	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will support the proposed amendment. But I think we can only imagine the interpretation of a colleague from the SMC Group. Because she listed at least five arguments, which makes sense to support the SDS amendment. You also note that, given the current situation and the situation of Slovenian companies and the guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia, we can expect in 2015 that the Republic of Slovenia will have much more claims than we have at the moment. You are probably aware of this and the goal is that the privatisation or disposal of state property takes place in a very non-transparent manner. On the one hand, we have now listened to one of the coalition parties when we wanted a classification and public presentation in the Slovenian Democratic Party in a transparent way to show which companies were to be sold, this was the place, it was the sale; today, when you consciously hide claims, you are legally hiding claims, but everything is fine. And you're saying something, you're doing something else. I think those masks that fell off your faces, I think the voters and the electorates will soon come to that realization. This way of working, I don't think it leads to the good of Slovenia. And then don't call the opposition to cooperate. The Secretary of State himself, your man was prepared to disclose information at a closed session both on the Finance Committee and today in the National Assembly. I'd like to know who instructed you to vote against it. Who's the background that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And that's not a good way to work. [[…]] And claims are property of the state, not your property. This is taxpayers' property. But you have to take responsibility for all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u193	Explanation of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u194	Of course, I will support the amendment and say something out loud: all those who do not support it prove that something here smells very bad. It smells really bad. You know, the SMC gave an explanation when, uh, all claims have to be sold. No one's against it! All that matters is how they're sold. By implementing this amendment of the law, you will literally allow those representing you to sell these matters under the table. It stinks! Finally, the proof that it smells is also that you have halved the total amount of claims in a few moments. But when it came to these seven million, you didn't give up. I wonder what's going on, and I urge you to support the amendment; because it's urgent and let's flush out this smell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u195	Before I open another round, I would ask Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert not to call again, because this is literally the word I used to not be in explanation of the voice. It wasn't the first time, it was the second time, I've noticed before, but I went through, and this time I'm afraid I can't. Now I'm gonna give you another chance to apply, because apparently there'll be more applications. Great. Then we can vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 and 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a decision on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 5 [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance of Mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. We, myself and we will, of course, support this amendment because we are assessing that state property must be managed responsibly. For about fourteen days now, or perhaps even more, we are trying to convince the ruling coalition that Petrol is an important company for Slovenia, that it is necessary to ensure that the government has — not the opposition, but the government, respected colleagues in the coalition. Here we would assure the government something although I now feel like I am a coalition to convince the opposition that something is urgently needed. [[…]] In short, the government would be given the right to decide whether the concentration of one owner is more than 25% good, appropriate, acceptable – however you wish. The asset management strategy will not solve this, looking for solutions by January, as I had heard before, or in fact, I do not know what will be different from today's 16th, 17th December to January. Please, let's really start with action and not just with words. If you really care about the cooperation that you have been stressing in recent days between the coalition and the opposition, and if you really care about this property, which I have already told you is not just yours, it is ours. But ultimately, the responsibility for the Petrol case will be yours. Today by pressing the "no" button you will show how much you care about this property. Unfortunately, we cannot vote for ourselves in the opposition, so I hope you will consider this amendment, which once again gives the government some additional opportunity to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u197	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u198	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Initially, this provision was in the Energy Law and fell out of the Energy Law when the government of Alenka Bratušek was in power. However, I am sure that with this amendment, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek is aware of the mistakes that were made at the time and that this error is being heeded now. The fact is that this amendment does not in any way threaten any privatisation. In some ways, however, this provision of a protector is primarily against wild privatisation and against hostile takeover. That this coalition and the government of Mira Cerar do not know what this is about is probably proof of the answer given yesterday by Prime Minister Mir Cerar to the question put by colleague Alenka Bratušek, when he answered quite a third of what was actually the question. You should be told that this amendment and this provision on the government's agreement on the control share in the sale of Petrol has no connection with the State interest – what the President of the Government explained yesterday or what you probably have been explaining today. It has nothing to do with strategy. This provision of agreement to the government with respect to the control share, additional agreement, is only a safeguard against wild privatisation and against hostile takeover. I think we are all aware that there is a need to make some transparent privatisation, privatisation in the interest of everyone. On the other hand, we read from the media that around 14% of Petrol already went to some fiduciary accounts in the Czech Republic. If you do not support this, I think it will come to realize once again that those masks of yours fall down: on the one hand, you are talking about deliberate privatisation, on the one hand, you are talking about how to deal with state property, on the other hand, and on the other hand, you are seeing that you are in some way supporting some wild and quiet privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u199	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer said that he was not schizophren and would not support the decision to revoke the Government's decision to privatise 15 companies. When we received a proposal from the Energy Act, which is in fact similar to the amendment we are talking about now, we had little doubts about this statement. Someone might say that this is some kind of opportunism, but I believe it is some legitimate reaction to public opinion towards privatisation. We know that many or most people strongly oppose the privatisation of companies such as Petrol and Telekom, and not least the public banks, although they appear so notoriously in the media. Although the proposed amendment is to a certain extent insufficient, it will still be supported by the United Left in the Group of Members. It is not sufficient because, in fact, it gives the government the opportunity to give this consent. But I think we can have some legitimate reservations about our governments. If we only take the current and previous government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, who accepted this package of business sales and then rejected it a little later. Similarly, Mr Cerar in the campaign against privatisation, and immediately after the elections, of course, he began to recall privatisation. And here we are again at this schizophrenia. Nevertheless, as has already been said, we will support this amendment, because in some ways it involves at least some interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u201	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name? I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. As colleague M.T.V. said, we're going to back this up. Although, as I said before, I am getting more and more — not to say what — some fact that we are now going to be squeezing laws from case to case — perhaps there is an exception to a Member there as an example — when we have to change laws. Mr Cerar was in some of the negotiations that we had when we were negotiating – a colleague said that we had negotiated well and then he had to deny everything by eating weed – he said somehow that we would not just sell strategic infrastructure, privatise. See, Petrol is a strategic infrastructure directly, plus as indirect owner of the pipeline network. After all, we can ask ourselves how it all came about. The reservoirs in Sermin probably didn't pull Super Mario, so he put them there. According to income, we know where Petrol is if we look among Slovenian companies. Speculators are, of course, very much already explaining how they would liberalise the pricing of oil derivatives. The sale is likely to make a branch of some major oil corporation, and in this light, of course, you know our relationship to privatisation. I will support and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u203	Explanation of the vote Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I find that too, of course, is not a systemic solution. In the introduction, when presenting the opinion of the parliamentary group, I said what we picture in Desus, what kind of law ZIPro should be: technical, procedural and, above all, it would not interfere with certain substantive solutions and ideas in other substantive regulations. At the same time, I note that the proposal of this amendment seeks to correct in some way the inconsistencies, shortcomings, inadequacy, as we call it, in the Energy Act passed in the previous government. At the same time, I also note, at least for me, that there is a significant fear here of so-called wild privatisation, which I personally and also the party Desus resists with all means, because wild privatisation is not the right way to transform ownership of certain economic operators, but at the same time, there is a great fear of the so-called hostile takeover of this amendment, which means death for the economic operator taking over. On the basis of everything I say, I will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u205	Explanation of the vote by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I will not tell my colleague Vatov whether I love him or not, because otherwise they will say that there is something in the air; but what he said of course has nothing to do with what we voted on at the time. However, I am glad that he will support this amendment, which is to be welcomed. However, I must say that I am extremely disappointed because the President of the Government does not want to have a weapon and in fact wants to act in a Gandhiian way against those who want to privatise certain things. Therefore, I find it extremely unusual and unreasonable that this amendment should not be supported, but even more so that it is rejected in fact by an instrument under which, in fact, the government and exclusively the government would ultimately decide what will happen to the stake in Petrol; and Petrol, because everyone has already said how important it is. The second thing that seems even more important to me is that in fact, I am increasingly and more aware of what we find together in the National Assembly, more or less. That is, we never know what's sooner: chicken or egg. However, I am afraid that the President of the Government, with yesterday's performance, has in fact proved that he has either lousy advisors who could not explain to him what this is really about or he can't choose advisers. This will now remain an open question. I hope that this amendment can at least partially correct what is said to be normal ignorance and ignorance of what this amendment actually wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u207	Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Alena Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much. True, we are correcting the mistake that has been made in the energy law. Unfortunately, however, things cannot be regulated in return, but from this law, things can be arranged as is necessary from the adoption of this amendment. I am very disappointed whether I will say quite sadly that a single Member or Member of the largest government party, Mir Cerar, does not say what he thinks about it. You don't say what you think about state property, you don't say what you think about Petrol, you don't say what's important to this country and our people. You'll just be against it because it's not your proposal. This is unacceptable; it is unacceptable for democracy and also unacceptable for this national assembly. If we make a proposal in the opposition that, according to our assessment of matters, rules as best as possible, while in fact you are convincing us that there is a need for sound action in the area of the management of state property, today neither of you has given an opinion on this amendment. I think it's the least unacceptable. And nothing the opposition can do to itself. The government, the government of Mir Cerar; and the Party of Mir Cerar will not give this opportunity to the government of Mir Cerar. I really don't know who in our country can understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u209	Ma'am mag. Alenka Bratušek, part of the invitation does not belong to the explanation of the vote. Please hold on to this. I'm asking if there's any other explanation for the voice. I think there's only one reason I'm not going to apply. I give the floor to explain my voice to the Magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u210	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will support this amendment because this amendment, on the one hand, can also protect this state share from grading. In some ways it is a security guard that we will not get overnight privatized by Petrol, and on the other hand that this share indirectly owned by the Republic of Slovenia will be significantly less valuable than it is today. On the one hand, I have learned in this debate that Prime Minister Miro Cerar, with yesterday's reply, has not only convinced me but also that he has not convinced the coalition Members and Members. As I understand it, Desus will support this coalition proposal, I think this amendment and I think it is also worrying on the one hand. Indeed, we can be saddened that the President of the Government answers such a question quite a third, which has no connection. Once again, this amendment has nothing to do with state property, but in some ways it has the indirect role of an anchor against insurance, so that the state share is substantially less valuable than it can be. And another way: to prevent wild privatisation or to reduce the risk of some hostile takeover of this society.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u211	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to ask for a 20-minute recess before the vote. There's more than one reason. One reason is that it is an extremely important thing to sell Slovenian property, which in some ways we now want to solve in technical law. The amendment is made by a party or by people who had the opportunity to regulate the matter before it came a little late. The second thing I want to point out is this: because I am a politician, I have little problem with the fact that this mastic opposition has begun to gather in one pile, and I demand a twenty-minute recess to express our position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u213	First, before I answer, I ask if anyone else has an explanation for the vote. No, no, no. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Ducky, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u214	As part of the rainbow coalition – a future coalition – I support my colleague Han's proposal; and, of course, the rainbow is open, it is full of colors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u215	Okay, that wasn't procedural, and I'm not going to consider that procedural. I'm definitely assigning 20 minutes, we're moving on twenty minutes in five.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u216	We're continuing our session. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much, President. In the SMC Group, after further discussion, we have found that we need some additional information because of the complexity and in particular the history of this topic and the potential lack of transparency and corruption that can be at the back of this proposal, so we ask for an additional 30 minutes of time to prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u218	I'm suspending the session. We'll pick it up at 6:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u219	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. First, I ask the proposer of the last procedural proposal whether she wants to explain the proposal. [[No, no, ……]] Then we can cross [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Han, you want to explain? Please. [[advertising from the hall]] First, after a break, he must be given the opportunity to respond to the request for a procedural proposal and then to you. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, small customers are looking for their space under the sun. Interestingly, liberal parties are becoming very social, we, the Social Democrats, who have had a tradition for 20 years, are happy. In spite of all the problems we have had in the last hour, the Group will support this amendment to the ZIPRS proposed by the ZaAB Liberal Party. It grieves me that we did not find this wisdom a year ago, and we would not have come to such complications today. Otherwise, when we talk about the sale of property, the sale of property, it is very good that Slovenia has a strategy and that it determines which company is strategic, which is portfolio, which is important, but not that we extinguish because of the political peaks of some individuals. But the Social Democrats with such an amendment have no problem and we will support this amendment due to an uncontrolled sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u221	Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much, President. If I was at the beginning of my bad will because of the break that one and then another parliamentary group took, I must say that I am increasingly satisfied because I learned more in this hour than I knew in one year and a half about the problem itself. In view of the fact that, during the procedural statement of colleague Simone Lipicer Kustec, I am now very seriously interested in what it is, it has been said that it is even a matter of corruption. Of course, I have to point out that she's been dumped here, and I'll say, one piece of garbage everywhere — given that I don't know which way. I myself know the next thing – and I will tell you this – that if this amendment is not adopted, I will suggest that the NPU investigate this matter a little bit. Because now I am interested in who lobbied where he was lobbying and when he lobbied that this proposal was not adopted either at the time of the law being drawn up in the Janša government and, of course, because of the fall of the Janša government, it was not even sent to the procedure and was not considered. And then at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek was discussed for one year – I am talking about a law that has five hundred members and where more than one hundred amendments were submitted, and where three leaders of the coalition coordination in the National Assembly, the law was only about cards that were the biggest problem at the end and were also the most talked about. Therefore, I seriously warn you, last but not least, we are all Members committed to lobbying applications, that all those who have experienced a phone call do not support this amendment to report it to the KPK. Because I think it's time for this rot to be cleaned up a little bit, because it's not going anywhere anymore. I won't allow it either because it was too much, I'll say, suspicions have already been cast on that something was going on around this marriage. So, procedurally, I expect that if a procedural procedure is abused, I will say, it is proposed and a little helps everywhere to get at least an answer to know what we are, to know what we are deciding. So I would ask, President, that in the future, when someone throws a suspicion that you ask him what he's talking about. Because I still don't know what colleague Simona Lipicer Kustec was talking about today. What kind of corruption?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u223	That wasn't procedural, that's my judgment. It was mostly a procedural abuse for some other purpose. In this context, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will support this amendment. We will support it for a number of reasons, the amendment now represents an equalization of the remuneration of all former Presidents of the Republic, who are received or received by the Presidents of the Republic under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic. The whole package was adopted in the context of the reduction of funds for the so-called privileges adopted in the context of public sector savings and public expenditure in general. The current regime, without any real reason, constitutes an exception compared to other former officials whose so-called privileges have been reduced after the end of their duties, and it also leaves indeed unjustified positive discrimination in comparison with public servants whose payments have been reduced by payment grade without exception in 2012. The adoption of such an amendment is an opportunity to abolish such an unjustified privilege. I also expect that this will be a step in consolidating public finances, in balancing the budget. I think the SMC Party has chosen the wrong way to save. You save time in the National Assembly, report, I'd say, a quota of time, but actually you don't spend a few minutes of that quota. This is not a way of saving, which will save Slovenia, because you would also like to hear some argument from time to time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u225	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. An explanation in your own name? I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this is a measure that will equalize the income of all the former Presidents of the Republic, and this is certainly one of the reasons why this amendment should be supported and I will support it. After all, it is right that former public officials have the same income or any same income-generating system. This concerns both constitutional judges, Members, Prime Minister, Presidents of the Republic, Presidents of Parliaments. In short, I think this should be equal. After all, such an equation also means some kind of symbolic solidarity with the real sector. In the real sector, we have lost more than 90 000 jobs in recent years, according to the Economic Chamber. It would therefore be a symbolic act that would actually also contribute to making the public sector easy to know to people, that we are also against privileges in this public sector, against certain extraordinary incomes arising from some legislation adopted at different times or adopted in a way that may not have been the most appropriate or most appropriate at some time. I will support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I mean, even if we were talking about the burdens of students on the one hand, there's nothing wrong with taking one privilege. I don't think that's gonna cause any headaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u227	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment. As I have already said in the debate, it is a solidarity measure, on the other hand, that no one is privileged in this country. We were also reminded of this by the Constitutional Court. If you have taken money away from students today by means of individual measures, if you intend to take it into account in one of the following proposals of the law to disabled companies and make it impossible to work for these people in some way, then it would be appropriate to support this amendment and to show that it is actually wrong that in these difficult times, when the crisis has literally reached everywhere, we have a structure that is privileged. These are former Members and, of course, one of the former Presidents of the country. That's not right. It would be wise to support this amendment even in the light of savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u229	Now I'm asking you, when I give you a chance to sign up, why don't you sign up? You both raise your hand and then don't sign up. I'd like to ask for a little more accuracy. When I actually give a chance to apply, I would like to ask those who want to explain their voices to apply without raising their hands for others. Since the explanation of vote is personal, there is no more explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Now, why don't you explain to the voice without a report? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this amendment. If we want the measures that you intend to process, and some of them have already been taken, when we have dealt with ZIPRS and student work, it is also right that in this case we reach out to those areas which are still under the country's normal conditions. If, in the next step, we reach out to the disabled companies and you take it from them, I can also say, the social entrepreneurship money and the budget, then there is absolutely no reason to remain certain groups that are financed by the state budget or also by the pension fund, as an exception. There's absolutely no reason. And there are some groups, one of which you regulate, and there are at least two remaining groups, or one is the former President of the Republic, and the other is those who have retired under special conditions, under the law that the Constitutional Court has also abolished or corrected in these provisions. It is right that everyone contributes to the resolution of the crisis. Those who participate in the budget, but not just some vulnerable groups, as you have set out in your concept of amending the legislation that we are witnessing to them these days. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u231	Explanation of the vote Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment myself. There was a lot of talk before when we accepted the novel ZUJF, when there was talk about student work, that this was also done because of the pension allowance, and it just doesn't seem fair to me to say what the problem is with the pension allowance, and on the other hand we don't take those who have privileged pensions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated the thesis, or the fact that pensions must be based on paid contributions. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Slovenia, which is why we have the situation in the pension register that we have. I will support this amendment because it just doesn't seem fair to me that we have privileged pensions on the one hand and, on the other hand, pensioners who have to live with 400 or less euros. Last but not least, I will support this amendment because it does not seem fair to me to take students and students who are the future of our country, and, on the other hand, with a few hundred euros, we reward someone who was not only against the independence of Slovenia, but also was one of the opponents of the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u233	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 21 votes against, 54 votes against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u234	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, in addition to paying the awards of members of the Slovenian Academy and Science, this amendment includes the benefits of former officials. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is subject to 39. The Article of the Law on Members was repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 30 June 1994 and found that such a privilege of a Member's retirement was an extremely unconstitutional one. The examination of the constitutionality of Article 39 showed, according to the Constitutional Court, that the benefits referred to in Article 39 were based solely on the existence of a Member's function, irrespective of its duration, that there were no other commonly known reasons in the process of adopting the contested legal provisions, nor were the reasons given. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that support for this amendment will also help to abolish certain privileges and, of course, to balance public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u235	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of individuals? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. With the amendment to Article 5 or Article 5, you took the student through the student's work 15% of the hourly rate. You took 15% out of the sinister form of work, which is to many in correction, to help them to even be employed and to work and study. In this case, we have a group that is privileged, which in addition to regular pensions receives about as much as pensions, an allowance for pensions. It's about a thousand 500 Euros of supplement. I think it is right that, in accordance with the rules of this society, if you are defending them in this way, these burdens would be distributed evenly. In fact, those who are less in need and who already have a virtually extreme or the highest possible pension without an allowance can make more money. There is absolutely no reason to advocate such an anomaly. As for me, I will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u237	Any other explanation for the voice? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Again, I said before, I will support this amendment, which is somehow similar to the previous one. It is to eliminate on one side the privileged status of those who do not have the right to do so. Finally, this amendment of the law also took away part of the prize from representatives or members of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. On the other hand, we allow ourselves to have Members with a privileged position. That is why I will support the amendment, and I believe that in this way I can contribute to the fact that no one will be privileged and that we are all tightening the belts. Of those who are the lowest, who are unfortunately the most worked and most taken away from them, to those who do not have these privileges to live without.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u239	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are voting on the second amendment of Article 12 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 53. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? No, no, no. So we can go to the third reading of the proposed law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u240	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party is that the proposed amendments or additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported. But there's more than one reason. The main reason is that this government has begun to continue the practice of the former government, namely that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is actually being abused. In this law you try to impose from every end of the line. If you had listened earlier to the interpretation of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who said that the law on the implementation of the budget included everything that had budgetary implications, that means that we can explain to ourselves that we do not need any other laws, but we can only have ZIPRO, in which you will put everything. Another argument why we will not support this is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The Legislative and Legal Service has made substantive comments on each article of the law you have proposed and submitted to the National Assembly. The third argument is that you did not support any of the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It started with claims. We estimate, with regard to the claims you are proposing that the amount of the blank currency that the National Assembly gives to the Government is significantly too high. We estimate that such a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 may have a wider negative impact both on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and on the competitive position of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also true that you brought an addition or amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget to the National Assembly a month ago. It's not been another month since you're proposing a new change. And in the next month, in January, we can probably expect another change and addition. The respected government of Mir Cerar, a respected coalition, is not doing so. And in these nearly a hundred days, the face of this government and this coalition has proved to be clear. In some ways, you are calling on the opposition to cooperate, but in these 90 days, you have not accepted a single proposal from the opposition. You never once invited the opposition. Such cooperation is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u241	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Yeah. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u242	President, thank you for your word. In the Mir Cerar Party, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. We will support it because the basic purpose of this law is to narrow down the solutions that will enable the country's budget to be implemented in 2015, which we undoubtedly need. Among other things, this law also provides for new budgetary solutions regarding the deficit of the state sector, or the way the deficit of the state budget will be shown after the cash flow, i.e. when the expenditure is incurred. At the same time, the law also allows for an additional deficit in the state budget, up to the level of requests for reimbursement of European cohesion policy funds. The law also sets out the amount of the annual pension allowance, bearing in mind that the Capital Society of Pensions and Disability Insurance will provide EUR 19 million for this purpose, as set out in the SDH Act. It is also very important that this law contains the addition of Article 51(2), which constitutes the implementation of the agreement on measures to reduce the volume of public sector wage and other public sector labour costs for 2015, which provides for a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector by 1% for the period January 2015-January 2016, while that reduction does not apply to those budgetary users who will succeed in reducing their operating costs by the same amount in 2015, i.e. the value of the labour costs of 1% of employees at the expense of external operators. In the SMC Group, we view the proposed agreement as a positive approach to social understanding and it certainly takes time to implement structural measures in the public sector and to implement structural reforms. In view of all of this, the SMC Group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u243	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? I'm going to ask for an application. To explain his voice, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. It's a bit of a randomization, even though I've waited until the end, I'm first in line, but good what we want, my friend Jože says the future will be an information society or not. I'll vote against it, of course, and I'll repeat why. Since this proposal is derogating from a whole range of sectoral legislation, I will explain this abroad in the end, because the government is increasing the power to have ownership shares in companies, because it is a shame that this amendment to Article 5 of the SDS has not been adopted because the number of public servants is decreasing linearly instead of going to open up this public sector. I think it's about as much as we say, let's make the National Assembly even more sparse, and let's cut the number of Members and Members by two. I don't know if we're gonna draw or how we're gonna do it. What really hurts me here is that the folk can't do something like this intellectual laziness. Now my colleague Han will say I'm teasing someone again. In particular, because, as I mentioned earlier this morning, everyone in this one, who would be the law of some slightly more technical nature, is caught up in a whole series of matters that should be regulated in laws that are actually intended to do so. Legal and legal services have repeated this twice, but obviously, I'm just going to end up saying, "Someone doesn't hear well," so I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u245	Before I give my word to the next one, let me say that technology obviously works for us and chooses randomly. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u246	President, thank you for your word. And I'd rather talk in front of my colleague France because we're both French because I'd feel a little better. He's on stage a little bit like that, and I don't have these qualities, and it's so much harder for me to perform for him. But let's just leave it. My opinion will be a little different from his. I will personally support this amendment of the law, and I will also support it because this way the 2014 budget can also be closed. I am particularly pleased that in this proposal there is also an annual allowance for pensioners, it is said that the regression is that those who are actually the poorest will also be able to afford heating, health services and, of course, nutrition costs. If the economic growth indicators are 2.5% or more, we will be in the budget rebalancing next year and, of course, I am sure that the new law on budgetary increases will also require the harmonisation of pensions to be introduced into this law. Of course, this must be more than 2.5% for economic growth, as I have already mentioned. I do not want to repeat this, and we have heard this many times in this Chamber that pensioners have contributed a lot to the stabilisation of public finances in our society, the real older population, and the simple future will no longer be able to cut. Thus, we have not coordinated pensions since 2010. That is probably something that anyone sitting here today can say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u247	Mr. Andrej Shircelj has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, for your word! I will not support the draft law on the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budget. The key reason is that the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment on the sale of claims has not been adopted, where it would actually limit the possibility that the Government itself sells claims at the level it sells. The second reason is that this coalition does not want this to be done transparently, to be done essentially in public and that the opposition in the State Council is also aware of this. As we know, this is probably where the transactions have already been arranged. In 2014, this sales will probably amount to around 7 million and it is probably already agreed on and probably only you know which company it is and probably also know whether Tina Maze skis on these skis or not. Probably not. In this regard, it must be said that such a way of functioning of the coalition is not an honour for Parliament and is not an honour for all of us, because people simply do not know how their money will actually be spent. That's why I'm so against it. Of course, I believe that it is impossible to save the entire law and that everything that is actually in it is also somehow being excluded from it, but I do not think that this way we will definitely manage public finances and in this way we will not reduce the deficit or debt. And there is no progress in the budget itself. The budget is still measured on the basis of cash flows, not on the basis of events. So there's no progress made here by this government. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u249	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this law in particular because the measures we are voting on today are very unbalanced. On the one hand, you took almost 60 million or half a percent of the budget from the previous law to students, and on the other hand you avoided and did not vote that other social groups, in particular those or only those who receive supplements from the state budget, would participate in the coverage of the budget or even budget gaps. Expectations that the coalition will act roughly in the same way as all social categories in terms of this relative relationship have failed. We are still faced with cases where, far from being the worst hit by the most socially weak group or by the socially weakest economic society, as we will see in the next reading of the law, when you decide on disabled companies. In short, to expect the government to take these measures in a way that is not necessary for the survival of an individual or group, and to leave them where they are walking on the brink of survival, obviously there is no point in this case. This is similar to Mr Pahor's previous government, and Mr Križanič, when all social transfers were packaged under a well-known scale of even burden distribution. You're talking about anomalies here, but the key anomalies that are related to privileged groups, you keep and defend, and that's completely wrong in these cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u251	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u252	I cannot support the proposal for amendments to the law. I cannot support it because these changes will allow you to sell claims under the table and will allow you to remain privileged in the country. Of course, I welcome the fact that you have also advocated this law for pensioners. You know, but these pensioners are gonna get just as much as grandparents are gonna give these same pensioners now for the students you took their money from before. So I can't break this law in any way, because it's just another proof of the untransparent functioning of this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u253	The explanation for the vote is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u254	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I cannot support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the implementation of the budget. I can't support it for a number of reasons. One reason is that you have not followed the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, on the other hand, the opinion given by the Legislative and Legal Service and that in fact this coalition and the Government of Mir Cerar are using this law for some of their privileges, for some of their reasons. I am also personally surprised at the explanation and arguments of the Mir Cerar Party why such a proposal will be supported. I would not expect the Academic Party, the President of the Constitutional Lawyer and most Members have some legal experience. Finally, I would say that the Law-Legal Service clearly states that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 also covers those issues which do not systematically belong here and are regulated in other laws. And what else does the Legal and Legal Service say? However, intervention and the adoption of such determinations significantly reduces the transparency of the legal regime in force and introduces uncertainties and indeterminities into the legal order. They put in the legal order ambiguities and indeterminities. A party of academics, a party of the President of Constitutional Law, most of the lawyers, will now again, as you have knowingly violated human rights in this National Assembly, knowingly put in the legal order ambiguity and ambiguity. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u255	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you very much. When I listen to explanations of vote by the Slovenian Democratic Party, individuals, I cannot help but overlook the fact that in some way, at least in a student's work, you are a grave deceiver. The fact is that ZIPRS is a law that all governments have been exploiting for some time now for digging into these ZIPS some of the solutions that should be in systemic laws. And no government has ever been immune to that. And here I absolutely agree. I'd say one thing when I was a student. Those students who work at the bar, ladies and gentlemen, few who get paid for what they get now, 3.5 euros. Or he doesn't even get paid. But now she's going to get 3.8 euros in pay, she's going to have paid for it, she's going to go into some kind of retirement thing, and somehow those who exploit students will not be able to do it with this law anymore. From this point of view, I would like to ask for one correctness. We don't take anything from students, but we sort of regulate student work in some normal, transparent way so that there won't be any more of this when students have been left to various privates behind the bar they've been using. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u257	Now [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u258	I'm going to vote in favour. I'm sorry. France warned me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u259	Good thing someone warned you, it would be good to warn you about which law we are voting on. But, okay. I think it's a good thing to see that there is no more explanation for the vote to go to the vote on the whole law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 54, and the vote was 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled today, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 54 and against 16. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 7. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 53 and against 16. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 2 and 7 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates or do they intend to table amendments to these articles? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. We will not support this bill in the SDS Group of Members. You have to believe the words of my colleague Cuz about Christmas and other red things that some take very much in this pre-godly time, and some give very much. The government, by means of a proposal to reduce, is not taking away funds from disabled organisations who are employed in disability organisations, but are taking over the entire disability organisation. We have already identified this in the debate today. In particular, public funds intended for the functioning of disabled organisations are earmarked for non-disabled salaries, but are intended for the education of disabled persons, for the development of disabled companies and for investing in the company itself. Perhaps this proposal is the part mentioned by the President of the Government that the economy must also contribute its own. If this is the case, then there is certainly no need to adopt or support this law. At the same time, we note that this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act was not coordinated with the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disability Organisations. Despite the discussions, the matter was not harmonised and we also received comments and requests that these laws should not be adopted because it is not properly written down or that money is taken for the development of disability organisations. Thus, we will not support this change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u261	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, we will support this law. As has already been said, state aid remains in the form of an exemption for 30,000 disabled persons. For 6,000 non-disabled jobs, there is a limit to contributions paid only for those amounts of income that are higher than the minimum wage of three times the minimum wage, which is EUR 2 000 367, namely, this is only about paying the contribution for the difference between the actual amount of salary and the amount that I have stated. This means that those disabled companies who deliberately spend money on the development of activities are likely not to suffer much damage and that the motive for the non-transparent or unintended use of these assets is likely to be reduced. We'll support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u263	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? What explanation in your own name? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. I have already said a lot in my presentation of the position of the Group of Members, but I would like to say again or point out that many Members of the Coalition have not been able to discuss this law in the National Assembly, that the law is completely inconsistent with the representatives of the disabled companies. We will take EUR 3 million from the disabled companies. This can be said to be one-tenth of all that the public sector will contribute. It is more than obvious that the Government of Mira Cerar had an interest in agreeing and aligning itself with or kneeling with representatives of the public sector. Unfortunately, however, she had no interest in agreeing with representatives of disabled companies. Not only does the law take 3 million, it also introduces additional bureaucratic obstacles. There is already a second law in four years that will take money from disabled companies. It also introduces new bureaucratic obstacles. And I really don't understand why all the left-wing governments want to, or they're putting bureaucratic obstacles in themselves, when everyone calls a stop to bureaucratic obstacles. So please let the legislation be a little more harmonised in the future and burden businesses both bureaucraticly and financially. At the same time, I would like to point out that the law is not in line with the European Commission's last directive. I think there's more than enough reason to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u265	The explanation for the vote is Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. I have a feeling that yesterday and today Andrej Chuš and I are doing the most work, and we're gonna do it all the way. Look, I can't support this marriage because in the morning I couldn't look in the mirror, let alone look at one of my best students in the last years, which is, by the way, a tetraplegic, let alone adore his dog companion. With all these billions, we're talking about 3 million on all these cruises. My colleague Chuš said that there was a lack of alignment with the European directives, we said earlier that it was also not in line with the organisations representing the disabled, and I read this morning that there was a reduction in the number of support for employment and rehabilitation for the disabled and equalization of opportunities for the disabled. Look, I don't know, I have a very rich vocabulary, but I have one of those gallbladders in me, and I'm speechless. My fellow chairman, I want to control my feelings, because otherwise I'd probably start yelling or pull this microphone out in front of me. It's basically some kind of rude act. Give me the budget accounts and I'll raise you four million, give me five minutes, and who'll help me. Shame on you. I will vote against of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u267	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I will, of course, oppose myself and oppose the amendments to that law. Last but not least, this novel will reach into a law that, according to both international and domestic, has proven to be a successful social subsystem. You're going to go where we're still recording some positive indicators, and you're going to turn on your head what's good. Finally, I must oppose the law also because it is not harmonised. I've listened to what a capable minister we have before. She's been in this place a long time, but she didn't get the law right here. Finally, I will also be against this because we are called upon by many organizations of persons with disabilities, and I believe that this is necessary from this point of view. Finally, I will reject the law by my vote also because at the end of one of the entries, we have written: Nothing about disabled persons without disabled persons. Today you will do just that by adopting this law. And that's bad. Last but not least, I will be against it because, even in the coalition itself, you are not in line, as already announced by the individual coalition Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u269	Is there any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. We've been talking about certain things all day today, so we're going to take on disabled organisations, take on students, leave our privileges. But I would like to hear from the coalition Members, from the largest parliamentary group at least one word. Like you don't know how to say that we're only talking this side and that side. Do you all agree? You spoke before the elections, within four months, that you would not interfere with socially weak people, but today you are interfering with disability organizations, with organizations that employ disabled people who educate, train, train, and expand their businesses and employ new people with disabilities. But you're silent in blue, just waiting to press the button, so you can get these 3 million somewhere to put it in an empty budget box. But you keep speaking, that is, those who represent the position of the Group of Members so that you do not interfere with the rights of the socially weak. Can we hear any of you, any of you? Do you all agree with that? It's amazing how you keep your mouth shut about all these things. You just press the button and laugh. I hope you will also laugh at the disabled on the road or where you will be reminded of what you have done, that you have taken public funds for the development of disabled organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u271	I take it that you used your explanation of vote to call and question, which is not the purpose of the explanation of vote. So I'm asking you to keep this up. However, I give the floor to explain my vote to Mr Bojan Podródsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law myself. I have to say, in the morning, when I listened to a fellow Member from Desus, I liked the experience he had in this area, he told us all in the Chamber and also the Slovenian public that this law is harmful. That is why I will also vote against this law because it is harmful to disabled organisations and is harmful to people with disabilities in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u273	The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I served as a replacement military service within one of the disabled organisations, and I can assure you that every job would be asked by my colleagues if they were listening if they were already taking [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u275	A little peace, please, in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u276	that any job opened to a disabled person is worth gold to disabled organisations. [[…]] And every euro taken by each government to disability organisations is the worst blow to those who promote the employment of people with disabilities. I wonder if today those Members who will vote on this proposal are even aware of what they will vote on. If they don't know each other already, do they even know what they're voting about? They propose proposals to scrape into state treasury minimum amounts. You will save €3 million here so that you can sell 7 million claims under the table and somehow manage the loss you will make. So think about yourself, everyone can become disabled at any time in their lives, and only then can they understand the importance of carefully planning disabled jobs in each country. I will vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u277	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this law because, in this case, it is not a high-tech or high-value enterprise, but it is a dedicated enterprise, a dedicated staff structure, whose task is only to have 40% of the disabled in their workforce. All these companies create is designed or improved jobs for people with disabilities or additional jobs or for new jobs. And it's hard to understand those who have a full mouth of equality, the rights of handicapped groups, and I don't know what else you're interfering with this particular structure. The government has not provided any information in its explanation on the impact this will have on these disabled companies, how many of these will be lost due to this measure, how many disabled jobs will be abolished as a result. By taking it from this poor system, which is exclusively a form of social entrepreneurship or whatever you turn it around, it is solely a task for the hardworking groups, which have certain limitations, to work and integrate them into society, you will now easily fail. And the bill you proposed simply cannot be supported. Only civic education, the FDV project carried out during Minister Luksic's time, cost a million and a half euros. A million and a half, five times, seven times, ten times a project! Now you are interfering with a group of people who simply cannot help themselves without social assistance. I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u279	Is there any other explanation for the voice? I'm opening the list or I'm asking you to sign in. Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u280	Thank you very much, President. Otherwise, I had no intention of calling because I had already presented the Committee's report. Colleagues took part in the debate on this point, and we do not use the team's core as a rule to explain our votes on the vote. However, there were some false or misleading claims. But let me explain again why I will support this marriage. I will support the law mainly for this reason, because at no point does it touch the rights, benefits, wages or anything of disabled persons employed in disability organisations. The law focuses on three times the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia or on the difference between the salary of a non-disabled worker in a disabled company and only on that difference. Nor does it claim that the law does not comply with the Commission Regulation of the European Union. On the contrary, it is the amendment of the law that constitutes an adjustment in this area and a smooth implementation of the rules. Nor does this suggest that the law is completely inconsistent with the disability organisations. Representatives of the disability organisations with whom I conducted several interviews in this context and beyond, and we will continue, said that we would like some other solutions. It is also true that they have in some way coordinated their views with the proposaler. In the original version there was a limit of 2.5 times, now, as you can see in the regulation, is a 3-fold. But, of course, we all want, personally, I believe, the members of the Labour Committee as well as the members of the DeSUS Group of Members, to take a step forward here. And there is absolutely no claim that anyone in the Dessus Group said that this law was contrary to the rights of the disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u281	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll vote against it myself. I stopped by to say that my old mother, unfortunately, was already dead, disabled, so I know what it's like to have a disabled person in the house. This is the second law in the last four years, the uncoordinated increase in bureaucracy, the taking of funds. I have to say, it really saddens me, with three coalition Members, I attended the Disabled Sportsman event last week in 2014. I saw three coalition MPs there taking pictures of three disabled people getting the highest recognition. I must say, it will be very interesting to see how you vote. If you vote against the disabled in this case, I expect that we will not see each other at this event next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u283	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote for this law. As my colleague Prikl said a little earlier, I must stress this, I know that on our left side there are some unrealities, and this law is in no way aimed at disabled workers, but it concerns workers in disabled companies who are non-disabled. I'd ask you not to fool around here in a populist way. It is true that these disabled organizations wanted certain solutions, but the law is as it is, but it is not at the expense of the disabled as you would like to show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u285	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u286	It's sad to use disabled people for your promotion. Let's do it in a row. Disability companies account for 50% of people with disabilities and 50% of non-disabled people. And what's going on? So far, the country has paid for all, full contributions and social contributions for everything. Now she has decided that for those who are not disabled, who are managers who are technical staff, she will pay up to three times the average wage, a thousand EUR 400 net will pay the contributions, not yet. You know why not? Because people who have companies and have disabled businesses like, I'll say, subsidiaries use these disabled companies to move managers from the main company to disabled companies and get contributions paid from the country's account. If that's fair, then I don't know. And we don't talk about any disabled people, and we don't tell Social Democrats that we're talking about something bad for the disabled. If one disabled person loses his job because of this law, we will bring the Social Democrats into law that moment, regardless of the fact that the law was originally introduced by our Minister at the initiative of the Finance Minister. If one disabled person loses his job as a result of this action, the Social Democrats will return to the law all the damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u287	Mrs Marija Bachič has an explanation of vote. A little more calm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u288	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to tell you that I've worked my entire career with people with disabilities. And believe me, if the law were to interfere with the disabled, I would probably raise it myself and not accept it. But since I know that marriage doesn't interfere with the marriage of the disabled, it's with the non-disabled. I'm telling you, I have my daughter and son-in-law in a disability company, and I probably would if I didn't know what rights were violated, even what they said. I don't know if you want to understand that this law doesn't really concern people with disabilities completely in anything, but it is true, sometimes legislation is used in these disabled companies. And look, we can't have everything, and these people have to give up something, too. I will support the marriage, and I hope most of us will.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u289	Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u290	Thank you, Chairman. I'm really sorry to have to respond to the insults of my colleague Jelka Godec on such a subject. She had a comment that we didn't know how to talk and that we should finally talk. I have a proposition for her. If she wants someone to answer to her command, then buy yourself a parrot. SMC sure as hell isn't. And there's one more thing. We say if we have anything to say, not when they tell us to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u291	Please have some peace, too. That wasn't an explanation for the voice. You haven't even said how you're going to vote, which is why I have to remind you in the same way as everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u292	Of course I'll vote for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u293	Mr Dragan Matić has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. With such dramatic calls by the opposition, I went once again to my brother to explain the marriage. It says: "In disabled companies, the salaries of employees of non-disabled workers are usually much higher than those of disabled workers. Since disabled companies with at least 50% of the disabled and disabled companies with at least a third of the disabled are exempt from social security contributions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set the highest wage for non-disabled persons for whom disabled companies are already exempt from social security contributions in advance. In contrast to the actual salary paid and the minimum wage paid three times, disabled companies will have to pay social security contributions." What sort of anomalies were there, Mr Han said earlier. And this is a system that will prevent abuse, but it is not directed against disabled companies as such or the interests of disabled people. So here I think this concern and the dramaticness of the opposition is somewhat exaggerated. I will, of course, vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u295	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u296	I will support this marriage. First of all, I will support him because he finally came on the agenda because at least three, four governments had never hoped to put him on the agenda before, because they were afraid that they would have a bunch of people with disabilities in front of the National Assembly or before the Government, and they said, as long as we still have a good situation in the country, we are not going to propose that. Today is the right time to do so primarily to stop paying those who do not belong to them. But the saddest part is that today, I hear that some even speak to their old mothers and relatives, that they are disabled, and how bad it is, and make comparisons with some events and events, which is literally unsavoury. It's just the abuse of people with disabilities for some other purpose. And I'm happy and I welcome this decision because there's probably going to be more money left for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u297	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour Market Interventions and Parental Protection by Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 74 votes against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of Mr Franco Trčko's question on assistance to the neglected regions. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 50. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin on the balance of public finances. There are 68 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek in connection with the new Energy Law. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the most important part of the Energy Law is included, three changes are included, but the most important one was the one related to the so-called silent takeover of Petrol. Given that we have managed to regulate this part today in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, I withdraw this proposal and also announce that the Group of Members will withdraw the amendment of the Energy Act. Of course, we expect that the coalition, somehow you have also promised, things that need to be fixed in the Energy Law will be demonstrated through this short-term implementation of the law, also proposed and amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u299	Since the withdrawal of the decision is proposed, we will not vote on the decision. We move on to the next decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Dr Dusan Mumorr's reply to the question of mags. Branca Grims on excise policy. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the next decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the next draft of the National Assembly at the next meeting to discuss the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Andrej Shirtzl concerning measures relating to aggressive tax planning. Mr Mag has an explanation for the vote. Andrey Shircelj. I ask whether it is on its own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group of Members. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In view of the latest developments and in particular the fact that it has been revealed that some Member States of the European Union are making arrangements with individual multinationals and thus allow for very low taxation of income, the last such case was in Luxembourg, I asked the Minister of Finance what he intends to do in the area of taxation of income and profits in Slovenia, which are reactions. Given that individual countries thus attract capital to the country, the country is becoming more competitive. According to data provided by the Finance Minister of Luxembourg, this is not only Luxembourg, but also countries such as the Netherlands, France, as well as Germany in certain areas. In fact, this means tax competition. Here, the European Commission is not talking about harmful tax competition, but simply about tax competition. After all, these are also very rich countries within the European Union. As we know, Luxembourg, after gross social or national income, is another country in the world, the national income is more than 2 times higher than in Slovenia per capita, with more than 45,000 euros per capita. In view of these new circumstances, I believe that in European tax policy too there is an urgent need to hold a debate in the framework of this national assembly, because such tax practice dictates some reaction in Slovenia as well. Minister Maramor also said this when he presented that we needed foreign capital. Foreign capital can also be obtained by allowing this foreign capital a more favourable tax environment. For this reason, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this tax policy and tax policy and also draw up guidelines on how to actually proceed with tax policy. We know, in fact, that it is possible to have in law the possibility that an easy tax burden can be carried out on the basis of an agreement. This is what some countries have. I'm not gonna say if it's right or wrong, but it's just gonna have to be taken as a fact. And such a fact exists today in the European Union, and therefore I propose that this be also discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u301	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Can we vote? We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the next decision of Mr Andrej Couch. After that, the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Andrej Couch's question on the double taxation of migrant workers. Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I asked Dr. Dusan Marble myself if he was planning any changes to the Income Act. If someone was watching one of the news shows yesterday, they could see the contribution of the daily migrants working in Austria. Over 15 thousand Slovenes and Slovenes drive from Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška every day or at least once a week to work in neighbouring Austria. By the last judgment of the Constitutional Court, the special tax relief to which they were entitled was repealed. I would also like to say that the European Commission has announced that it will carry out an analysis of the laws of the Member States, of all 28 Member States, this year and at the beginning of next year, and to point out, for example, irregularities or unfair tax policies. I've spoken to several representatives of the initiative myself. I saw a video of this contribution yesterday, too. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, is the first finance minister in the last three governments to respond to the demands of the Apache Civil Initiative. I think it's about underestimating people, laughing in the head. Instead of giving people credit for choosing to go to work in neighbouring Austria, instead of being at home on the back of the country and giving them credit, we double-crossed them. I think it's unfair, unfair, and in mockery of all the people who do. That is why I also asked whether any changes in tax policy or specifically the Income Act were planned, so that these daily migrants would not then be taxed both in Austria and in Slovenia, because I do not think it is fair. In the final stage, a large part of the earnings or wages are spent by these daily migrants at home in Slovenia, and they should still be grateful to return to Slovenia, to have residence and to raise families in Slovenia. I think it's a major problem at least in the area of Styria, Koroška and Prekmurje. I think at least these three regions should come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u303	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member or in his own? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. My friend Andrej Chuš has already said the point. I would only say that the attitude or the relationship to this issue somehow indicates what I always say, the centralisation of Slovenia. I don't think so. It's basically a lack of empathy. One of them told me on Facebook that sometimes they said it was "emonocentricity". By the way, Jankovic was not elected to the Olympic Committees, a footnote below the line. It's a problem. These people are actually bringing this tax to Slovenia and to GDP because they live here. I really am not such a retro man, but I know that, in particular in the Korean region of the Austrian congregation, which was also partly based on principalism, they are working on attracting people. And I'm afraid that with such a relationship, in particular, those who have a little more money to spend around here who, according to the old Hirschman model exit, voice and loyalty, will not explain it now, will not be caught, will go more residentially across the border. Of course I'll vote in favour. I call on the government, the executive, and the coalition to think that the President will not tell me that I am impeding the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u305	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision by Mr Vinko Gorenak. It will be discussed by the National Assembly at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the detection and prosecution of crimes related to bad loans from state-owned banks. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. In your own name or on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u306	I would first, on behalf of the Group of Members, and then on my own, because I see that it is bad. On behalf of the Group of Members, please first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u307	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u308	For months, I think that, October or already in September, the interior minister and the justice minister asked what they had done with the bank of Slovenia's confidential reports. There were several hundred such serious crimes worth 4 billion, which the taxpayers then donated to the budget or to banks last year. The answer I got from there was actually a little worrisome. It was simple for the interior minister to report on a significant number of crimes and a significantly larger number of complaints and a much greater damage to social property, which the police are expected to detect. Of course, Mr. Fisher seems to have lost it somewhere. The Justice Minister replied to me that about one third of Mr Fisher's complaints had been accepted. It bothered me a little bit that you didn't know how to calculate. Mr Fisher usually plays the postman's role because he just sends it to the chief of the specialized prosecutor's office. That is why I have drawn up one oral question from those two questions. On the contrary, I promised myself that they would be united here now that they would answer such a question of the delegation so that one would not speak one number and the other would speak another. They came in a little more coherent, I must admit, but there are still numbers among them, i.e. the number of criminal charges filed by the police and the number of criminal charges accepted by the prosecution are quite different. In general, we have not even rounded up on the oral question of the Member States or have not come up with these matters. I therefore propose, please, what you want, to support this proposal for a fundamental reason, because I think it is also in the interest of every Member sitting here on behalf of citizens who are taxpayers and who have invested 4 billion in this banking system, and at the same time they have chosen us all to receive clear and clear answers because of them. I'll also be interested in what's going on in the courts. But there's nothing going on in court, by the way. However, it would be wise to clarify now what is going on in the prosecution or whether the police will do anything else, so I ask for the support of this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u309	Do you really want another word? No, no, no. Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 49. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We turn to the vote on the proposal for a decision by Commissioner Luke Mesca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počivilska and Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen to the question of the question of the question of Cinkarna Celje and the related environmental situation in Celje. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a proposal by Member Tomaž Lisca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gaspersic, to the question of energy cards by Tomaž Lisca. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u310	Thank you, President. Otherwise, I had hoped that I would not have to ask these wishes or demands for a debate that Minister Gasperšič would answer all the questions, but the fact is that 1. 1. 2015 Under the Energy Act, Slovenia should start using so-called energy cards. However, the Minister did not answer any questions yesterday. More. In my opinion, it will be at least twice a record of a violation of the law under his department, or he has lied twice. He lied for the first time when he said that he would sign a regulation that would be published in the Official Journal on Friday and would enter into force within 15 days, which would be before 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today I'm looking at the Ministry's website, looking at all the electronic media, nowhere to be seen for the Minister to sign the rules on the introduction of energy cards. Even if today, tomorrow or Friday it was signed by this Regulation and this Regulation would be published in the Official Journal on Friday, it is not possible for it to be published from Friday and from 19 December 2014 until 1 January 2015 for less than 15 days when the Regulation is to be published in the Official Journal so that it may enter into force. In short, the ministry or officials of this ministry have been paid for 9 months, no one in the minister's opinion would be responsible, nor would it tell who led the project, who participated. He says he doesn't even know what the price will be, he says it'll be optimal. In short, the reasons for the debate are more than enough. Another reason why the minister lied or would break his marriage yesterday. In Article 333 of the Energy Law, it is well stated that the issue of multi-housing buildings is subject to the issuance of an energy card for the entire building. Yesterday, however, the minister claimed, contrary to the law, that the regulation could also apply to individual parts of multi-housing buildings. In short, the minister will break the law, the minister has lied, but the coalition will go on happily, unfortunately. I hope that we will at least have one thorough discussion of who is responsible and that we will be before 1. 1. 2015 find out what the energy card will be, how much it will cost – both for multi-inhabitation buildings and for one-inhabitation buildings, what it will look like, who led the project, who is responsible and, ultimately, what will be the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure, because it will break its own law twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u311	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. So we can vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. She voted 15 and 51. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. This allows us to move on to the next decision presented by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. After that, the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar to the question of Mr Anje Bah Žibert regarding concrete measures against domestic violence. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, I suppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Chairman. I asked the minister a specific question regarding domestic violence, related to the fines then imposed by the policeman when the event took place. The problem is bigger than it may seem at first sight. This is because the financial situation or the situation does not allow it to pay the fine that follows. We can rightly ask ourselves what our real situation is in the area of violence. We've talked a lot about violence against women now. If so, then the same is distorted and the situation can in fact be much worse than shown in the individual data. That is why I have proposed that because I have not received any concrete reply, not least that the Minister did not understand what I am asking her at all, I wanted this National Assembly to have a thorough debate on how we can approach the solution in the essence of this systemic problem, because it will certainly have to fall into different ministerial areas. However, I think the subject matter is so important that it would be appropriate to have one deeper discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u313	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 17 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. So we can move on to the next decision presented by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. After that, the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anje Kopač Mrak, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovec on the elimination of systemic inequality and discrimination in the field of same-sex partnerships and families. Procedurally, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u314	Thank you. As we have actually tabled in the United Left a proposal for a new law that eliminates systemic inequality, I am withdrawing this proposal because this debate will eventually take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u315	In accordance with the proposal to withdraw this Decision, we will not vote. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u316	Thank you so much for saying that. Usually, the point does not withdraw in such a way that they are not voted on. They may be moved to one of the following meetings or rejected at the vote. What happened earlier with the consideration of Alenka Bratušek's proposal and now in this case, this is an unusual matter which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure within the framework of the requests for the answers of ministers. As far as other acts are concerned, this is settled. I believe that this is not possible when you withdraw proposals just before the vote. It's incorrect. If you knew that, you wouldn't even ask or suggest. Mr President, I don't know, I don't want any Sue generis solutions to be found like this. If the point is the subject of a vote, you have it in your reminder, but it is voted on, whatever the outcome will be. However, it is not that just before the vote someone says that it will not withdraw the proposal. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u317	Now, to your procedural question, I will answer that I have previously responded twice to procedural proposals and, following a procedural proposal, it is always possible to withdraw certain matters, there is no great reason not to do so. The fact is, however, that matters are not so clearly set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly itself. So there is one thing we can discuss or ask the Commission about the Rules of Procedure. I can certainly do this, but we will most likely have a discussion on the whole matter, given that this is a new subject, at least in the College. Otherwise, I think that this solution, as I have both accepted in this case, is entirely in the spirit of the rules of procedure and in the spirit of at least Article 282. Procedurally, I presume, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u318	President, Comrade Tanko is inventing something new again. We know who interprets the rules of procedure. However, given that we received a very clear letter from the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission a short time ago, I believe that he will write again every time he interprets the following. The Rules of Procedure Commission is not a place for political accounting, in order for the President to finally judge on the Commission. So, President, for you, take matters into your own hands, you're president, you decide, end of discussion. And I don't know, Comrade Tanko, what you're developing here is a new theory on this. You want everything written down. It's not written, and it's explained in its own way. As in the time of your President Tsukati, who has always explained in his own way, but you never stood up and protested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u319	This was not a procedural proposal. It was a proposal for the President of the National Assembly to decide. The president of the National Assembly has already decided. Please, my friend Tanko, I hope she's new. Because I'm not gonna hear about the same thing again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u320	Look, Mr. President. First of all, I don't know why you let Mr Möderndorfer be Members on the other side. If he had a procedural proposal, he should have referred to you as I did, and should have responded accordingly. The item on the agenda, Mr President, whatever it is, cannot be withdrawn at the time it is on the agenda. In general, since the debate had already been held, the question raised, the Minister's reply, the question again, the Minister's response and a procedural proposal were put forward. This point, which is thus included on the ballot, cannot be deleted. It's a decision to make. Mr President, Article 282 is like that quiz, whether it's half or an emergency exit. This is an emergency for the President, because there is no argument in the Rules of Procedure. This is a problem with this provision of Article 282. I have kindly warned you that no item of the agenda on which the debate was held can go away in such a way and the vote must be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u321	The agenda item is item 1. And this point is called the question of Members and Members. Within this point, each question shall be submitted on the basis of the procedural option each Member shall have if it has not been satisfied with the answer and requires a general discussion. This is a procedural proposal. Of course, this procedural proposal is under the control of the Member who has given it. And that messenger can take him away. We will no longer discuss this and move on. We would like to take a proposal from Ambassador Ludmila Novak. We're deciding on the decision. I'm asking you for peace in the hall. [[…]] This is the conclusion that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislave Setnikar Cankar, to the question of Humane Novak on changes in the financing of music schools. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 52. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the next decision submitted by the MEP. Ange Logar. After that, the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Anzeta Logar in connection with the consequences of failed government trade negotiations with trade unions. The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u322	Thank you very much, President. My question has not been focused on unsuccessful negotiations, because there are no questions about this. I think it is clear to everyone that these negotiations have been unsuccessful. My question was focused mainly on how the Minister of Finance would fill the 100 million-dollar gap created by the poor negotiating group, because of poor negotiating tactics and because of the government coalition's shy approach to negotiating with the social partners, not even with the social partners, but mainly with the public sector unions. At the time of the first announcement of the birth with a warning phrase, before this warning two-hour sentence even occurred, the government had already removed its back and had apparently reached back after the proven easiest formula, i.e. raising taxes. It is only on this day of the December meeting that we have taken additional millions from the two segments of society, students and persons with disabilities, or, if I am precise, the government coalition, so it is entirely at the point of debate that the coalition, which has already announced a neutral tax policy when drafting the coalition, will not raise taxes and introduce new ones to present its plans to fill this 100 million gap. The Minister of Finance was very unspoken, very unfair, in general avoiding more precise definitions in that he would publicly promise that there would be no new taxes, and that he would publicly state which tax rates would rise, thereby in some way clearly indicating with his inaccuracies that the apparently ruling coalition is seriously taking tax recovery in this mandate or, above all, in the following year. If I do a little caricature. If this government coalition lasts the whole year 2015, in fact this answer or the debate on this issue is not necessary, because you will raise all taxes or introduce those that are not taxed. However, I think Slovenian taxpayers deserve an open debate on government plans to fill this 100 million-dollar gap. If you do not wish to refresh the memory of the coalition members, which taxes you will raise, at least for the sake of your electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u323	Any other explanation for the voice? Procedurally, Dr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the experience of two days with regard to parliamentary issues and the experience we have in such a vote, I propose that we have a forward-looking vote on the proposals for a general debate in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u325	I'll consider this proposal. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u326	Thank you for your word. Now I hope I don't hear any more abuse from you on a case-by-case basis. If a colleague of Mitja proposes such a thing, then in at least one logical argument he should explain to us why it would be so and why we should go into this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u327	My friend Mitja will not explain this matter, but we will consider this matter. We continue to vote on the conclusions. We must first vote on Mr Logar's request. Sorry, too procedural, and then we don't even know what we're talking about. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. She voted 15 against 52. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We continue with the proposal by Member Zvonk Lah, after which the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smerkolj to the question of Mr Lah's mission concerning the drawing up of cohesion funds. Does Mr Zvonko Lah have an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on his own behalf?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u328	On behalf of the Group of Members, if any more remains to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u329	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u330	The drawdown of cohesion funds from the new financial perspective could start already in 2014, as the new financial perspective is also starting this year, but the operational programme has not been approved, nor has the partnership agreement been signed in due time, which is also the responsibility of the government itself, because it has not prepared it between the first countries. If we want to draw on these funds in 2015, at least somewhere in the middle of the year, projects that are already ready need to be prepared to apply for the new financial perspective because they are different than they have been before, although 11 cohesion projects in the field of environmental protection have already been prepared to draw funds from the old financial perspective and have run out of money. That is why I think that there should be a debate in Parliament on this. If projects are prepared for as long as they take for the old financial perspective or for the rules of the old financial perspective, it will take several years. Therefore, intermediate bodies should also review these projects and prepare them to draw on a new financial perspective. I think that these funds or projects are so important for the 2015 budget that it is necessary to speed up the preparation of these pumping projects and that as soon as the construction season begins, these projects begin to be implemented and by the end of the year a few hundred million European funds are already being used, which will be very useful for you in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u331	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We vote on the decision of Ambassador Zvonk Lah. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the proposal of Mr Andrej Čelj on the following decision: The National Assembly held a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health of Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc to Andrej Čelj's question regarding the project of construction of emergency centres in Slovenia. Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u332	Thank you for your word. I myself asked the Minister of Health how far away it was to build emergency centres funded by European funds. As you know, we have received €40 million from cohesion, and in the last period, it has been possible to read in many media that everything does not go as it should. To date, only the emergency centre in Brežica has been put into use, while the remaining nine emergency centres continue to be built. There are many problems in bureaucratic barriers, there are revisions, there are problems with operators, there are problems with the acquisition of materials, there are also sufficient quality equipment and there are many things that have not yet been specified. Yesterday, the Minister told me that everything was going according to plan, despite the fact that after the meeting of the National Assembly, I received some contacts or notifications from representatives of local communities, interested in the public, and said that everything was not as good as the Minister had said. So many are also at risk of European funding, and I think we need to discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. While we have 10 emergency centres funded from European funds, €40 million, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health has also committed itself to upgrading the emergency block in Ljubljana and to building an emergency centre at the General Hospital of Ptuj. There's a lot of stuff out there, and there's a lot of trouble. Ptuj as the center of the lower Podravje deserves such an object because it can be said that Ptuj with its surroundings covers much more residents and residents than many emergency centres in another municipality. I think that sufficient financial resources should be provided for the construction of the emergency centre in Ptuj as well. The Minister said that she would strive to obtain in the budget as much funding as possible for the construction of emergency centres, i.e. in Ljubljana and in Ptuj, but of course I got the feeling that everything would not be as smooth as she thought or accounted for. I think it is more than appropriate to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u333	Otherwise, it is implicitly understood that we understand how the parliamentary group will vote, but it would be very good to include it in the explanation of vote. Any other explanation for the voice? On behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief because I've been having toothache all afternoon. It is clear to me that colleagues will vote in favour. Look, it's not a ridiculous thing, it's not just European funds, it's life after all. If you have read the last interview with one of the gentlemen who developed the ER in Slovenia, I think we are also talking about some polycentric development in the Saturday Annex. You know, on our part, Troyan, we're paying the same money to the health department, but we don't have, say, helicopter rescue, because the infrastructure hasn't been fixed yet. But I hope my colleague Simona won't talk about any corruption here again, because a colleague said things were a little bit more like that. I hope that Comrade Bojan will not discover cartel arrangements, I have little doubt that they are in the background, and I hope that at least the water supply in these emergency centres will work when it is made. I will, of course, support and vote yes. I'm not going to invite anyone, but after all, when we go to see this, we're going to find that the coalition isn't for people to survive, not for not having any pork in Celje, not for, not for, I don't know, not for, I don't know, for, like, an ass out of Pu.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u335	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the proposal put forward by Mr Matjaž Hanžek, after which the National Assembly would adopt a decision to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of the delegation of Matjaž Hanžka concerning the white passengers in the public health system. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the next proposal for a decision tabled by Member Jan Mahnic, after which the National Assembly at its next meeting would hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen to the question by Mr Mahnič on the rehabilitation of the October floods. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u336	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday I asked two oral questions. That's all I asked for is an answer, because to someone else, I got it from another minister, even though I wasn't satisfied with the content, but at least she told me the truth. Mrs Irena Majcen even asked me here how dare I ask such a question. This was a rescue after the autumn floods, referring to the valley of Poljana, and I believe that you had it elsewhere. It was about the government adopting an action plan for the rehabilitation of watercourses a few days ago. I am pleased that EUR 25 million will be provided next year, but here I see the problem – on the one hand, it is a shame that there are no more mayors in Parliament because I believe that everyone would support me, whether they are in coalition or opposition. The aim is to remedy only damage from the state budget, on state infrastructure, on watercourses, but the state will not provide funds for the rehabilitation of local infrastructure. As I said yesterday, we have a dam on which is the road, below the watercourse, the state is in charge of regulating the watercourses. When this watercourse rises and falls down this embankment, the road collapses, is damaged, and untransportable — whose cost is this? This is the cost of the state, because it has come about because of an irregular watercourse that the state should take care of. The damage was already officially estimated at 860,000 euros, the minister told me she didn't even know what the damage was. She was very arrogant when she didn't belong here. I am sorry when I speak to both the opposition and the coalition MPs, obviously, if I can express myself in the words of Mrs Tomić from a TV show, we have finally found a minister who is the weakest member of this government. The money was not even provided to remedy the consequences of the pharynx. In your previous reference, you have explained to members of the coalition and the opposition what will happen if major rainfall occurs. That's exactly what happened. I asked her four specific questions. She didn't answer any of these questions. Apparently, she was reading some answers there from the 2010 flood in the Poljanska Valley. Now I hope that they have become more up-to-date at the Ministry because I really care if another flood comes, we have a minister who is clearly familiar with this issue as a rabbit on a drum if I can express myself at home. I ask you to support the proposal for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u337	I would remind you again that it would be good to say how the Group of Members will vote. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u338	Not only is it enough for my colleague to explain how the parliamentary group will vote, but I hope that we will give a dignified speech in this national assembly despite the late hours and difficult topics. When any minister begins to complain with such inappropriate balinian words, it is only right that you, the President, react. We are talking about the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. And there's no rabbit, there's nothing to know about, I don't know what -- I think it's very incorrect to say that. You can laugh, it can be funny, but, Jean, I kind of like you as a colleague, but please, yes, you might like your voters, but dignity comes first. And I ask you to warn him, all of us, when we speak this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u339	I will respect your suggestion. The choice of words is a very important matter. When someone is not among us, it would be right to choose words that do not offend the distance. So, Mr. Jean, please take this into account next time. Is there anything else procedural? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group? Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u340	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I will say that the Group of Members will vote against the proposal proposed by Mr Jan Mahnic. The basis for rejecting this debate is indeed incorrect. My colleague Han has already explained that we must have a respectful relationship with the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the generational difference between the lady and the young gentleman is such that one would expect it. And I also expect in the future, Mr Jean, that you will take this into account. I have listened thoroughly to your question, which you have asked, and I have also divided matters in some way that the rehabilitation that the State must carry out is one part, and the other part that concerns the local roads is another question. And we can't mix apples and pears here. Sanitation on local roads is carried out by the local community. If, in the event of a description of the injury, that damage exceeds a certain price, certain means of remediation shall also be allocated to the State, normally from the reserves. I'd be most pleased to see all the reparations resolved as soon as possible. But hand to heart, no government, and I must say, no government could do it like that, none. Even at a time when flowers have blossomed in some way, not now that we are in a difficult economic crisis and recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u341	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u342	Thank you for your word, President. I will vote in favour. I just want to say that if something doesn't seem right, yes, of course I agree, respect must be mutual. If the Minister tells me why I even asked her such a question and I don't know where with this question, let's take a look at the video of yesterday's session, the coalition Members were also amazed at how she answered me or better said how I didn't. [[…]] The problem is that the Minister was there immediately after the floods the next day and promised to help us. In the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane, as I mentioned, it is a serious damage to the local infrastructure. It's hard not to be if you had watercourses. For the regulation of watercourses, however, the State of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. Therefore, if damage was caused by a watercourse that was not regulated by the State, it should be the fault of the Republic of Slovenia. And I asked the rightful minister how she sees the role of the local community in this case, and given how she sees it, can we expect that the country will not only be the Polish Valley, but wherever damage has been done due to water flows not regulated by the State on local infrastructure, whether the State will provide funds in these cases. However, if this is not a question on the ground, then seriously, I will ask her two more oral questions in January.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u343	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. She voted 16 against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. This allows us to move on to the next decision presented by Member Joseph Horvat. After that, the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Horvat's question on taxation of cross-border labour migrants. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 13 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the last proposal, this is a proposal by the Member of the Committee of the State to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of the Member State of the Republic of Croatia, regarding the assistance of the most socially disadvantaged people. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. This time I heard the doctor in this sentence that I was a little confused. To resolve one dilemma. I know my colleague Anjo Kopač Dark, of course, I know her biography and bibliography, and I respect her as an expert. And because my dear colleague Han attacked me, I explained why I expect so much of her. It's rare because it's so rare, I'll hardly tell the leaders, because it's, I count them in one hand, an expert. And the experts in the field in Slovenia are lucky, but don't get me wrong, mate, so stupid that she accepted this salary function, which is not so high for day-to-day work. And somehow I expect what can be done performatively best. He probably has an expert like me who cares a little about her health. Now we're going to the content. Let's be a little serious about it. What kind of early-call MP would say that we're running afne here, and there's poverty. Poverty is present not only in Maribor, even in Ljubljana, although some gentleman will say that this is the most beautiful place in the world, no. Next time I'm going to start dating A3 formats as a friend of Grims, I'm going to start spinning your data from STAT.si. My friend Gorenak is probably going to help me because we like numbers. I asked the minister a whole series of questions yesterday, gave her a chance, I wanted to help her literally, Madam Minister, whether you had enough personnel or not. After all, we could catch it as a thorn and say what we know — we don't. This would also increase bargaining power within the government. But in this kind of crazy gentlemanhood, false, I apologize, you decided that somehow you wouldn't do it. I was absolutely not satisfied with the answer. I've been told that I've made too much of a point, I'll be more systematic next time, I'll be like a numbers guy to you. It's not about looking for any final or initial truths here. I'm going to quote Mitchnik again, 'cause then we need the Archbishop. It's just that we're aware of some problem, some problems, and we're starting to solve it. Now maybe I'll stop here for a while. But given how this is happening today, I could make an even more radical proposal than my colleague Mitja that we are not voting on some proposals to discuss the opposition at all, because this is kind of a waste of time. And I'm gonna stop here and take a breath and take another two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u345	Any other explanation for the voice? This time, it's obviously serious. Explanation of Dr. Trcek's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u346	Of course, Vatovac and I will vote in favour. But I feel like I could use some training. Today I was talking to a journalist about what parliamentary democracy is, because apparently most people don't understand it. With regard to those laws, if this goes on, soon there will be a law for us from the opposition to have a slightly lower salary. They probably don't need us here, we're a little, I don't know, masquerades around or something. And I ask you to at least look, because we are in an information society, how some of the more normal parliaments work. We also have a responsible function here, even though we are not part of the coalition, and it would be time for these two universes to meet somewhere. Because right now, if I go a little bit into this metaphor of the development of the universe, it's us, there's no wormhole to translate into. Maybe we don't even have to be in this beautiful circular space, you'll have your own cup, and the Mauritian opposition will have ours. I've had enough of you, I've got someone at the end of my tongue, and I'm not going to say, mate Mitja is squeezing me, and I hope he starts to behave. I'm talking to a lot of coalition guys. When I talk over coffee, it's all great, but when you get here, it's like a dot up, and I really don't want to be insulting. Dude, seriously, we have a serious problem. And if you hit this problem here, I can't explain it to myself any different than it does to the coalition, or not to see poverty in Slovenia, or to have it hanging down on you, I can't tell you anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u347	This was very illustrated. I'm asking if anyone else has any explanation for the vote. No, no, no. Then we can vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
