ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Dr Ljubica Jelusic, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Matvež Franges, Mr Branko Grims, Mr Ivan Grill, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. I've invited the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government to the meeting. Alenko Bratušek and representatives of the government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 7 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We are moving on to a decision and I propose that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus before making a decision. Can we vote? Have you checked the voting devices? Okay. We're voting on the agenda. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's an announcement from the mags. Alice's brother-in-law on the retreat from the function of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek gave me a letter on Day 5. 5. 2014 has notified that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is to withdraw from the office of the President of the Government. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Bratošek for explanation resigns.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, colleagues in the Government, citizens and citizens. On Monday, I informed the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly of my resignation from the presidency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am here today to inform you of the reasons that have led me to this, with some basic information on where Slovenia is after the good year of our government, as well as with some urgent views on our work to the elections and the new government's oaths. In the first place, allow me to thank all of you for your cooperation last year. With all due respect for the division between the executive and legislative branches of power and between the opposition and the coalition, I would like to say that there has been nothing in all this time that goes beyond the normal democratic debate and procedures. And in this I see one of the successes of our European Slovenia. As long as we are able to deal with the most difficult crises with democratic methods and state responsibility in Slovenia, we are on the right track. But that doesn't mean a reason to be happy. On the contrary. It is not good enough for Slovenia if we are like others — we need to be better. On the basis of everything that has happened in recent weeks, I firmly believe that in order to achieve the common goals, it is necessary to fundamentally change some of the basic rules of political reflection and conduct in Slovenia. So why did I quit? Because I want to contribute as quickly as possible to a solution to the situation in which my government and the coalition have found themselves after not receiving sufficient support from the party so far. I can't run a government with such a travel agent without responsibility, not check on a confidential person here in front of you. As a result of the Congress of Positive Slovenia, I decided to resign from the post of President of the Government, to consult with coalition partners and to talk with the President of the Republic. But I did not want to trigger any additional crisis with premature or reckless moves. Therefore, it was also necessary to consider with partners whether any of the government’s issues could be so fateful that it should be settled with the full government. Not for a moment must any of us allow ourselves to suffer from a country or a citizen because of a party crisis or political calculation. When, after talking and agreeing with the coalition partners so far, I saw a clear willingness to go to the early elections early enough, even before the summer, if it could, or very early summers, and when he gave me clear support in this sincere regard, the President of the Republic, whose engagement in these days, was highly dependent, I was able to give up. There is no way I can say that a peaceful conscience, rather restless but pure conscience. Where is Slovenia today, what is it like? In such a way that we can afford the trial of early elections. After one year of government leadership, I am proud that we have stabilised public finances and strengthened Slovenia's position on international and financial markets. For the first time in five years, economic growth is again positive and the number of unemployed is declining. Practically all institutions preparing macroeconomic forecasts have significantly improved these forecasts for Slovenia. And I want to show you some of this information on the screen. Forecasts for 2013 showed very poor prospects for our country, from minus 2.7 to minus 2.3% decline in economic activity. The result at the end of the year was significantly better than the forecast, minus 1.1% drop in economic activity. The results would have been difficult to improve last year, as we took over the government in the face of a large, huge contraction of the Slovenian economy, minus 4.6%. Less than 4.6% of our economy declined in the first quarter, and on 20 March last year I took over government leadership. The last quarter was successfully completed with 2.1% growth. I think the difference in these images or on the screen is more than obvious: minus 4.6 to plus 2.1% of economic activity. The forecasts for this year are also much more promising than they were before. Virtually all institutions have changed their forecasts. If, in the autumn, virtually all these institutions have predicted the collapse of our economy, between negative 0.7 and negative 1.4%, today all these institutions are forecasting the growth of our economy, between 0.3% and 0.8% in 2014 and between 0.7 and 1.4% in 2015. I think there's a difference here, too, more than obvious, and you can see it on the screen. And that, honourable Members and Members, citizens and citizens, is the result of our hard and good work in the past year. Allow me to take a brief look at the trends in the costs of our debt over the past two years. There's a difference here, too, more than obvious. We started practically at 7% and leave at 3.4% interest rates on ten-year bonds. The interest rate is practically the lowest since we entered the euro area. And also comparison with some other countries: Italy, Portugal and Spain show how big a step Slovenia has taken. The blue line on the graph is Slovenia. I am convinced that this interest rate can be further reduced for our country and that we can further reduce the historical low value. With the smart and good work of the government, I believe it's possible. Our results show that even in just one year it is possible to take big and very successful steps for the country. I am sure that Slovenia has also shown in these moments, the most difficult after independence, how we have learned in the good two European decades and how ready we are to contribute to our sovereignty, independence and the future. Thank you to all who have also had in these dishes last year patience for our all before easy moves. In particular, I appreciated those critical comments that tried to offer better solutions to the committees, in your public appearances, as well as those that we all received from civil society together. Of course, I also have to thank my ministerial team, who fought with me and worked for the good of the countries. And we've proven that we're a good team, which is also confirmed by the data. Thank you, everyone. How's it going? Our government will insist on the new government's oath to fulfil those tasks that have already borne fruit and that I hope to claim that they actually associate us more often than we think and say. Let me write them down. We will continue to work on the debt and restructuring of our economy, which is in fact a key task after the resolution of the banking system. If it is, or if it is, we will continue to work on the fiscal rule law, where we need to find a two-thirds consensus in the National Assembly. The Slovenian State Holding Act obliges us to continue the procedures for implementing this law, including the preparation of a management strategy. But we're going to need an agreement between the parliamentary parties. And, of course, we will continue with the urgent changes that are needed at this point in the field of health. The same applies to agreement or agreement with public sector unions on savings or measures necessary in the area of wages. Let me specifically add to what we're not going to do. Personally, I will not allow any of the fixed-term jobs during this transitional period. We will also make very careful decisions, which are necessary because of the replacement of one or the other. That's what I'm committed to right here in front of you. Ladies and gentlemen, with my resignation, I have opened up options for early elections, and this early elections as soon as possible. If everyone who has spoken so far that you want to do so, at least as personally, I believe that we will not be discussing the contaminated bread in the coming days, as one of the Slovenian politicians said a few days ago, and that we will ensure a stable and full operational government in Slovenia as soon as possible. Like I said, with my resignation, I opened up an opportunity for early elections. I kept my word. I hope you will, too. From the Presidents and the President of the parties, the President of the Republic, the wisdom of legal advice and the level of public debate now depends on how fast things will take place in the coming days, weeks and months. Let me also invite you from this city to think in future moves about how much effort we have barely avoided the troikas, how much effort we have made to return Slovenia to the map of stable financial markets and how hard it has been to create the conditions for the efficient work of banks as a support of economic breakthroughs. Let not a single move, not a single move in the future, put us in a similar position again, for firsthand I can tell you, we were very much on the edge. Only if we all take politics together as a state's work and care for the common good as our civic duty will we be able to say that we are working for the well-being of all our citizens and citizens. And isn't that exactly the policy? Thank you for your trust and good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it is a mag. Alenki Bratušek ceased to serve as Prime Minister of the Government, which also terminated the function of ministers. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratušek and ministers shall carry out ongoing operations until the election of the new Prime Minister of the Government and the appointment of new ministers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 220 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will inform the President of the Republic thereof. Allow me to thank the Mags on this occasion as well. Alenka Bratušek for the work done and for cooperation with the National Assembly and I want a successful work in the future. Thank you. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the agenda, this is to inform Romana Tomc of the departure from the function of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Roman Tomc, is 30. 4. 2014 made a written statement that she resigned from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Romani Tomc, for reasons of resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. More than two years ago, I was appointed to one of the highest positions in this country. I believed that I would be able to make a difference. But we didn't make it with you. Apparently, the National Assembly is just a wider part of a system that is not working. Our biggest problem is that we are not able to admit it ourselves. We cling to surviving patterns of behavior, defend privileges, and look for reasons for our situation elsewhere, but not by ourselves. We're supposed to have good legislation, an independent judiciary, an excellent government, and we don't have any of that. Some are still trying to convince us that everything is okay, that things are going better. But how come people don't feel it? Let me first touch the functioning of the executive branch. If we were to conclude by saying what we had heard a little earlier from behind this pay phone, we had one of the most successful governments we have ever heard. But this smugness fades as soon as we take a more serious analysis, if we may read other people’s reports, if we follow what people think of us, and if we listen to the economy. The government's activities over the past year were marked mainly by three things: exceptional debt, tax raising and empty and broken promises. It is interesting that the Government shamelessly credits itself for some of the measures that are still in effect today, and once its representatives strongly disputed that these measures would be taken at all. The fact is that the law that allowed the banking system to start was not adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek. It is similar in other cases. Remember Zuif. The government is now quietly extending it so that as few people as possible will know about it. It is also involved in the sale of state property, in management, in the gold fiscal rule. In foreign countries, our representatives are bragging about the reforms that have been carried out and they can't list any of them at home. Indeed, economic indicators have turned upwards in the last quarter, but not because of government measures, but mainly because of the good situation in foreign markets. So we still depend on how rich a table is being held by those who are our most important external trading partners. The little things falling off these tables will not be enough to preserve the social state and to offer new jobs to all those young people looking for and waiting for their opportunity. All important global institutions warn us in their reports that there will be more to be done than raising taxes and relying on exports. I will not compete with Alenka Bratušek to prove which government is better, but of course foreign reports speak their own. We received a lot of recommendations, and we also received stronger supervision in March this year. The judiciary remains a system that is elevated above others, which does not respect the basic standards of the rule of law and with its decisions among people raises doubts about the functioning of the rule of law. Cases where a court decision is based on indications rather than evidence do not have room in developed democratic countries. While the courts themselves are excellent in assessing themselves, they are concerned that in foreign reports, we have agreed on various scales, such as the Freedom Index, among countries that seriously point to policy interference in the judiciary. The legislative branch of power, so we in Parliament are more and more just observers. We think we have the power to make decisions, and then we often realize that decisions are made elsewhere. What we've been witnessing lately has exceeded all limits. The confusion in changing the seating order in the parliamentary benches is complete. Instead of deciding on important things for people's lives, we are only discussing the situation in the coalition, the violation of Members from one group to another, and the elections that we cannot agree on at all. That's not how it can and cannot be in our country. We remain prisoners of a system that does not work, the promises given are not respected, the rule of law does not work, and the dignity to take responsibility is not. At that time, some functions that were to be highly respected and important also lost their importance. At the same time, my resignation is a call for a more just and just state and an invitation to all, my fellow Members and colleagues, to look the truth in the eye and acknowledge that without radical changes in this country, we will not become a developed, just, solidarity and democratic country that respects the free will of people and the highest standards of human rights. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we want it to be better in our Slovenia, it must be different first. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you for your explanation. On the basis of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly notes that Romana Tomc is 30. 4. 2014 submitted a statement of resignation from the functions of Vice-President of the National Assembly. That is why, today, she ends her post as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Allow me also to thank Romana Tomc for her participation and work in the National Assembly in this function. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under point (a), we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 95th session. 5. 2014 adopted a decision setting out the number of seats of members of the working groups of the National Assembly and determining the groups of Members belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision adopted, the parliamentary groups made proposals for presidents, presidents and vice-presidents or vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received and is published on the e-club. I ask if anyone wants a word on behalf of the groups of Members. I propose that you sign up for the debate on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. This resignation of the President of the Government or self-interpretation or self-disclosure or self-refoulement is argued on a number of fragmented foundations. If the success of the government is indeed what the Prime Minister of the Government has said about it, then the question arises above all, why is the dispersion after such success, that it can only be proof that there are no results and that Slovenia is not where it should be, or that is proof that you do not want the success of this Slovenia. What happened to the self-secretary of the President of the Government has also led to changes in the National Assembly. Interestingly, those who went with Alenka Bratušek are the most supportive of these changes, and then they turn the blame on everyone else. With regard to working bodies, I must say that the President of the National Assembly and those who participated in this work have not done their job well. What has been prepared for consultation and for the College is not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the composition of working bodies. Nowhere is a coalition defined, there is no agreement on what a coalition is, and it is also stipulated in this document or in this composition that the new Group of Non-Members is established in the working bodies and have even more voting rights than the larger groups of Members. The structure of the working body composition is also very unusual. I'll just give it to the Constitutional Commission. The 11-seat unaffiliated parliamentary group has 5 seats in the Constitutional Commission, 5 voting rights, just as much as our parliamentary group, which has two and a half times the number of Members. In order to lead the Constitutional Commission, you have provided for Mrs Maša Kociper, a lawyer who voted four times differently in this mandate, as decided by the Constitutional Court. In both the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act, unlike the Constitutional Court’s will, it voted in the Order on the call for a referendum on archival material and, last but not least, on the introduction of real estate tax. How someone who has voted actively against, by argument or by misrepresentation, which the Constitutional Court has not attracted in its decisions, must then continue to become President of the Constitutional Commission for the prize. Missed and even completely inappropriate. By the way, even the majority of the coalition or those who support the government have also voted wrong in these four cases. Even when we look at other working bodies, such as the Committee on the Economy or the Committee on Agriculture and other matters, there are awkwardities or inconsistencies that are just as large or almost as large. All of this shows that the current coalition, or those who support the government, and also the President of the National Assembly, are not very concerned about the arrangements we have set out in the Rules of Procedure. You can vote a lot because you have chosen enough votes, but what is voted on today and what you confirm is not in line with the solutions of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that the President of the National Assembly has a special task. It is he who is obliged by the Rules of Procedure to take care of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. And if he advocates the solution that we have here on the table, then the question is whether we need such a president of the National Assembly who prepared the act along with the services [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] contrary to what should be done by the Rules of Procedure. [[…]] We will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I am obliged to explain and, above all, categorically reject the statements made by Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The procedure by which we came to the proposal for a decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly's working bodies was introduced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the College also decided on this proposal, which is also the basis for today's appointment of those who will actually hold the seats of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly's working bodies. So the indications given are incorrect and I reject them. I ask if Members and Members wish to speak. Procedural. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I'm going to read the rules of procedure. When determining the number of members in all working bodies belonging to each parliamentary group, the size shall be taken into account, the number of members of each parliamentary group shall be the same and the situation between Members of the ruling coalition and the opposition shall be determined. This is the solution set out in the Rules of Procedure. Now I am just asking on the basis of this proportionality criterion, how is it possible that the Group of Members of the Parliament, 11 of them, in the Constitutional Commission of 5 members, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of 26 of us, as well as 5 members? We can talk to the Committee on Agriculture in a similar way, similar to that of the Committee on the Economy and so on. The finding is correct, I also said it at the College, I also said it in coordination, but it is the voting power that decides something that is not good in the National Assembly. If you'd like another comment, there's something else I can tell you. However, under Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to take care of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. This is also the right arrangement. It says exactly in the first paragraph, in the sixth indent, what I told you. And I propose to you, Mr President, even though the mandate is clearly approaching the end that we are working to the end, as far as possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, the principle of proportionality is not that the Group of Members of Parliament has 2.5 times as many seats in one working body, which is as important at the moment as it has remained, that is, the Constitutional Commission, as our Group of Members. We could've split it up differently. But they probably don't deserve such rewards for overthrowing the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Let me be very clear once again. At the working meeting I organised, you agreed with the agreement and it was also achieved that you would get two additional seats in the working bodies and another Vice-President in the working body as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The calculation of quotas as to how many cities belong to the opposition in the working bodies shows that the opposition is therefore occupied by all jobs. The fact that there has been an agreement between the parliamentary groups that have formed a coalition for the purposes of working in the National Assembly is indeed a matter of agreement. However, the fact is that an ideal proportionate share could never be achieved for each Member Group and an agreement was needed and this agreement was reached. I think Mr Möderndorfer wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. This implementation of Mr Tank is, of course, a classic abuse of the rules of procedure, like all of us, has been going through the National Assembly for the past two days and through this Rules of Procedure and has been explaining proportionality to us all the time. But forget to say that he has never achieved proportionality in previous mandates, not in this mandate, not ever and never. The Rules of Procedure say that it is necessary to establish, if only proportionately possible, but that could never be achieved, so an agreement was reached. We reached an agreement in the first part of your term of office, when you were in the coalition, that we agreed on which cities to take over and how the Committees' mandates would be divided. We reached the same agreement when you became the opposition. More. What he said today has not been said either yesterday, nor the day before when we coordinated all the mandates, and this is now something completely new to compare the Constitutional Commission with the mandates. I'll tell you now, Mr. Tanko, if you don't know. Look, the chairs are empty there, the government is gone. You know that, don't you? And you can see for yourself that there is probably no longer going to be this mandate. But we all owe it to each other not to determine whether we have a coalition or an opposition because we no longer have one. And you know that very well, don't you, neither. However, we have parliamentary mandates and we have a national assembly. And still, whenever we vote, and you have this very clearly recorded in Rules 28 to 31 of the Rules of Procedure, it is decided by a majority. Please, at least in the last part, stop your procedural "punching" because you're not coming anywhere, but you're making afnes from this national council. Let's go to the polls as soon as possible! And that's the only message you can get. I suggest to you, Mr President, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you keep reminding him of the abuse of procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Would you like, Mr. Tanko, procedurally? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, finally, the decision-makers make a difference. In what the President of the National Assembly gave, and he divided it only after it was already halfway through the College, it says that if there is no one else in the opposition, no one else in the coalition, then an easy proportionality is made. But this is not what the President of the National Assembly has even proposed, and we would not even get it if we didn't ask for it. Anyone who has prepared these proposals has put them forward. I am asking you, Mr Möderndorfer, and also, Mr President, not to talk about what has not been said, but about what I have said. And the fact is, in the Constitutional Commission, a very small parliamentary group has as many voting rights as ours. That there are almost as many voting rights in the Committee on the Economy as there are in a small parliamentary group such as theirs. It's the same on the Agriculture Committee. It's not a division if someone has substantially more seats than they belong to them. This means that it also has several voting rights in its working bodies. The working bodies, however, are crucial to the preparation of all that will go through this national assembly until it is operational. It's not as irrelevant as someone would want to show and say. It is crucial for democratic parliaments that voting rights are proportionately divided. That's the point. And if you do not knowingly do so, then you will deliberately distort democratic decision-making in this national assembly. Conscientious. And at least what it is, it's upside down that it's obvious that when we point out something that's obviously not working, it's clearly not in line with the arrangement that we're a problem. Those of you who have prepared this are a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Once again, what I said about you agreeing to this division at the Work Council is an accurate statement and you cannot deny it, because we also have witnesses of all those who participated in this conversation. Once again, I would like to point out that the vacancies were shared among the newly formed Group of Non-Aligned Members, the amended Group of Positive Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party, which expressed interest in obtaining additional jobs in the working bodies. This interest was not expressed by other Members. And that's why no one can be raped to give him a place if he thinks he doesn't need one on some committee. Thus, this agreement has indeed been reached on the basis of the agreement of all, in particular those who might require additional seats on the committees and commissions. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There was a mag in the debate. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! I usually start with a book. This time I will start with the book by Mr Bojan Grobovšek entitled Why Slovenia is not Switzerland. You know what it says. Very visual. This is until the recent ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Swiss Confederation. And it says, about a lot of differences between Slovenia and Switzerland. Among other things, it says the following. It says there, not according to Ivan Vogrin, but Bojan Grobovšek that in Switzerland there are 2 plus 2 always four, but in Slovenia there are three, the second there are seven, etc. Why am I saying this? That is why, Mr President, because this agreement you have made is an unfair agreement. It is to the detriment of many Members here, and should not be concluded. 11 is not equal to 26. Is that in Slovenia? He's not in Switzerland. I'm sure of that. But it's in Slovenia. What we've done now, or what you've done, means that 11 is equal to 26. You see, this is where Slovenia falls because it has no logical arrangements. Mrs Romana Tomc said that if we want to have different results, we will have to start working differently. Look what we're doing. We've reached the consensus of all. That's not true. If we were indeed a democratic parliament, a democratic state – we have not yet won "d" from democracy, then we would in fact give some place to actually independent unrelated Members. Not only are we not capable of this. We have made an equation, a unique one, 11 is equal to 26, Mr President. I feel hurt because when I came to this Parliament, I expected them to be intellectuals who can at least count. And I never imagined it in my dreams that it was possible what we allowed here. Please and I expect that we will make the composition of the Member's working bodies so that it will be logical, mathematically evident, but not on the basis of, Mr President, not to resent, these are the compromises that Slovenia has been making for 23 years, and that is why we are where we are. Then we turn it all around, talk about success, if no one feels it. Who's feeling it? We are not able to pay for the Red Cross, and the state is not able to give 15% of its resources to draw on European aid. People are hungry, and here we are "punching afne" with relationships like they are now represented. That's unfair. I have repeated several times the thought of a French intellectual that justice must be respected more than the real one. For it is more honorable to work righteously than lawfully. Of course, the National Assembly is the highest authority, we will now vote. This is legal, legal, but, ladies and gentlemen – do you think this is really a fair job? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vogrin. I'm not going to repeat what I've explained before. You have before you a proposal that could have been designed for the National Assembly to organise its work and that committees and commissions can also sit down and address the materials that will be provided to them for consideration. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! It seemed quite insignificant to me what this division would look like, because I thought that we had been at the biggest party since before the end of the term. However, after the performance of the previous Prime Minister's resignation, things have changed significantly. The President of the Government wanted to have a programme speech before us for the coming period, which is a rude violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. She stepped down, so she was performing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Look, Mr. Jerovšek, I have to warn you here. If you are already referring to the Rules of Procedure, then I must remind you that we have an item on the agenda for the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission and so on. Stick to this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u18	I have to explain why I initially thought this was irrelevant, but now I see from the speech given by the outgoing President of the Government that the coalition has been deliberately tactful with the division of seats in the commissions and committees, as if it would extend this mandate. See, on the basis of the blisters and the intensity and ingenuity of our economy, Slovenia has turned several indicators and based on the measures taken in the previous government. Now, the Prime Minister of the Government has earned all these achievements in her own favour and is talking about the continuation of the government's work. On the basis of the efforts, performance and work of the Slovenian people, it is possible to make a better government today. If the current bad government has actually achieved some success, it is theoretically possible, but not in this composition, because it cannot lead to better success. As a result, it is a sort of diversion of the current composition and the decision on the composition of the committees. We should adapt this composition so that even during this interim period Slovenia can take good measures, not such as the government has so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-08-SDZ6-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you. I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 21. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to point (b), to consider the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In accordance with the decision adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 95th session, 7. 5. In 2014, the parliamentary groups made proposals for the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission. You have received the draft decision and it is published on the e-club. I ask if anyone wants a word on behalf of the groups of Members. I guess not. I also conclude this debate by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I ask if any of the Members and Members want a word. He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before concluding the meeting, I would like to inform you that on the 10th anniversary of the European Union's membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, the Committee for the Affairs of the European Union convened a festive meeting to be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. here in the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly. On this occasion, on the same day of Europe, experts from different fields and the President of the Republic will present views, experience of the 10-year membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and therefore I invite you to attend these meetings and pay due attention to the 10th anniversary of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. Thank you for your attention, and I also conclude the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
